SOURCE: 034-037_Dialogue_Q1_2017_marshall_goldsmith_six_daily_questions.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Motivation
SUMMARY: This text discusses a survey that uses active questions to improve employee engagement and help them take personal responsibility for their work and well-being.
KEYWORDS: employee engagement, active questions, personal responsibility, survey, motivation
---

[Document: 034-037_Dialogue_Q1_2017_marshall_goldsmith_six_daily_questions.pdf]

the typical surveys that ask workers what their wasn’t happy because the airline kept me on

bosses and managers can do to improve. These the tarmac for three hours (the airline was

surveys aren’t bad. They provide companies responsible for my happiness). Or I overate

with many valuable suggestions. But they are because a client took me to his favourite

diagnostic, not curative. They do nothing to put barbecue joint where the food was abundant,

employees in an engaged mindset. calorific and irresistible (my client – or was it

Only the employees themselves can do the restaurant? – was responsible for controlling

that – and a good way to remind them is to ask my appetite).

active questions about their working lives. For Adding the words “did I do my best”

example, instead of asking the passive, “Were injected the element of personal ownership,

THE POWER OF QUESTIONS

By asking themselves six simple questions at the end of each day, thousands of people have

benefited from a marked improvement in most areas

1 D id I do my best 3 Did I do my best 5 Did I do my best

to set clear goals to find meaning to build positive

today? today? relationships

2 Did I do my best 4 Did I do my best today?

to make progress to be happy 6 Did I do my best

towards my goals today? to be engaged

today? today?

34% 67% 91% 9% 3% .06%

of participants improved on improved on didn’t change got worse on got worse on

reported at least four at least one on any items one or more all six items

improvement items item items

in all six areas

Sample size – 4,885

Dialogue Q1 2017

leadership 37

of responsibility into my Q&A interacting with our world. Active questions

process. After a few weeks reveal where we are trying and where we are

using this checklist, I giving up. In doing so, they sharpen our sense

noticed an unintended of what we can actually change. We gain a

consequence. Active sense of control and responsibility instead

questions themselves of victimhood.

didn’t merely elicit an At the end of the survey, participants have

answer. They created room to write comments about how the survey

a different level of affected them. Over time, I have noticed that

engagement with certain themes emerge in this section. The

my goals. questions create awareness, which in turn

To see if I was sparks change. As one participant wrote, “After

trending positively – a few days, when I knew I would be answering

actually making progress the survey later in the day, I attempted to shape

– I had to measure on a my day and become more purposeful in my

relative scale, comparing the interactions with others and more thoughtful

most recent day’s effort with about how I spent my time.”

previous days. I chose to grade Others echoed this thought. “During the

myself on a one-to-ten scale, with ten study I became far more conscious of setting

being the best score. If I scored low on “did I daily goals, writing them down on my home

do my best to be happy?” I had only myself to office whiteboard – where they were visible

blame. We may not hit our goals every time, – and checking in at end of day to see what I

but there’s no excuse for not trying. Anyone accomplished,” another participant said. “I will

can try. keep this practice going.”

The mindfulness that the questions provide

The survey even helped some of them through tough times.

At the moment, I have 43 daily questions. There “Right before the start of this study – and

is no correct number. It’s a personal choice, a for the duration – I was going through a very

function of how many issues you want to work stressful and disheartening period in both my

on. Some of my coaching clients have only personal and professional life,” said another

three or four questions. My list is 43 questions person. “By being mindful of these questions

deep because I need a lot of help (obviously), each day – even if I didn’t have the initial

but also because I’ve been doing this a long positive or motivated attitude to begin with – it

time, and I’ve had years to deal with some always grew and improved throughout the day.

of the broad interpersonal issues that seem It really created a positive impact and allowed

like obvious targets for people just

starting out.

If you’re not sure what to start with, I Active self-questioning can

recommend the questions I use in my online trigger a new way of interacting

survey (see below). These questions cover the

with our world. They sharpen our

basic tenets of employee engagement, but they

work well in other areas of life as well. sense of what we can actually change

They are:

1 Did I do my best to set clear goals today? me to find strength and enthusiasm to make

2 Did I do my best to make progress towards my my days worthwhile, even if I initially did not

goals today? emotionally feel up to it.”

3 Did I do my best to find meaning today? In my years of answering Daily Questions,

4 Did I do my best to be happy today? I have never yet had a perfect day. A very few

5 Did I do my best to build positive relationships have come close, but far, far more often I must

today? report that I failed somehow. That can be tough

6 Did I do my best to be engaged today? to face, but I believe it’s well worth trying to

come close to my goals, even if I don’t always

If you take the online test, we follow up meet them. The effort alone makes my days

after ten days and essentially ask, “How’d you worthwhile. And when I do succeed, after