SOURCE: 034-037_Dialogue_Q1_2017_marshall_goldsmith_six_daily_questions.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The author discusses the use of daily self-assessment questions to help leaders become happier, healthier, and more focused on their personal and professional goals.
KEYWORDS: self-improvement, daily habits, behavior change, leadership skills, executive coaching
---

[Document: 034-037_Dialogue_Q1_2017_marshall_goldsmith_six_daily_questions.pdf]

34 leadership

Six daily questions for winning leaders

Quiz yourself Every day, I get the same phone call. The voice on As I argue in my latest book, authored with

every day of the other end asks me a series of questions: did I Mark Reiter, Triggers: Creating Behavior that

do my best to be happy that day? Set goals? Make Lasts – Becoming the Person You Want to Be, in

the week

progress on those goals? I came up with these every waking hour we are being triggered by

and some 40 other questions myself, a brief self- people, events, and circumstances that have

writing test on my life’s main priorities. My caller offers the potential to change us. The Daily Questions

Marshall Goldsmith no judgment, just listens politely and perhaps provide an antidote to that chaos.

offers a few general words of encouragement The process appears to be almost robotically

illustration before hanging up. simple: in effect, I’m taking a test I wrote, to

Thomas Hedger This process, which I call the Daily which I already know the answers. But after

Questions, keeps me focused on becoming a years of dedication to this process, I now

happier, healthier person. It provides discipline hold the counterintuitive belief that the Daily

I sorely need in my busy working life as an Questions are in fact a very tough test, one of the

executive coach, teacher and speaker, which hardest we’ll ever take.

involves travelling 180 days out of the year to To understand why, you first need to grasp

countries all over the globe. a fundamental truth about human behaviour.

Dialogue Q1 2017

35

Six daily questions for winning leaders

Changing it is hard. Very hard. I like to say that about that talent you never used, that weight

behavioural change is just about the hardest The you never lost, or that friend you didn’t

thing for sentient human beings to accomplish. questions have time to listen to. The upshot is this: our

As an object lesson, think about a change behaviours matter. Perhaps they matter more

create awareness,

you’d like to make. Perhaps you want to be more than our achievements. We don’t live with our

which in turn

patient, or a better listener, for example. Now, promotions and university degrees every

think about how long you’ve been trying to sparks change day, but we do live with our choice to be

make that change. I’m going to hazard a couple better people.

of bets. My first wager is that the change is The Daily Questions are so hard because, if

something important to you – otherwise, why we answer them honestly, they force us to face

would you bother to change it? My second punt those choices. Because we wrote the questions

is that you’ve been trying for a long time – that ourselves, we can’t blame some outside entity

you’d probably measure that time in months or for imposing goals that don’t really matter to

years rather than days or weeks. us. Because we are the only ones responsible for

At this point you might be feeling a twinge coming up with the right answers, we can’t say

– maybe even a stab – of regret, thinking we didn’t know what we were supposed to do.

Q1 2017 Dialogue

36 leadership

The power of active questions you happy today?” (a question that invariably

What you want to accomplish by asking these produces a laundry list of complaints), Kelly

questions is not particularly important to me. suggested asking an active question: “Did you

That is up to you! The way you phrase these do your best to be happy today?” The ball is now

questions is important. I have found that in the employee’s court. They have to evaluate

active questions are far more helpful than and take responsibility for their own actions.

passive ones. This logic dovetailed with my own Daily

I learned about the power of active questions Questions process. Feeling that my personal

from my daughter Dr Kelly Goldsmith, who questions were static and uninspiring, I

has a PhD from Yale University in behavioural tweaked several of them to reflect Kelly’s active

marketing, and teaches at Northwestern formulation. For example, I changed a few of

University’s Kellogg School of Management. my questions as follows:

Kelly and I are both fascinated with

employee engagement, the term used in From “did I set clear goals” to “did I do my best to

management circles to describe a state of active set clear goals?”

From “how happy was I?” to “did I do my best to

be happy?”

Our behaviours matter. Perhaps From “did I avoid trying to prove I was right when

they matter more than our it wasn’t worth it?” to “did I do my best to try

to avoid proving I was right when it wasn’t

achievements. We don’t live with our

worth it?”

university degrees every day

Suddenly, I wasn’t being asked how well

I performed, but rather how much I tried.

involvement in work that you might liken to an The distinction is meaningful because in my

athlete being ‘in the zone’. Kelly’s key insight original version, if I wasn’t happy, or I overate

was this: if companies want their employees during the day, I could always blame it on some

to be engaged, they should avoid handing out factor outside of myself. I could tell myself I

the typical surveys that ask workers what their wasn’t happy because the airline kept me on

bosses and managers can do to improve. These the tarmac for three hours (the airline was

surveys aren’t bad. They provide companies responsible for my happiness). Or I overate

with many valuable suggestions. But they are because a client took me to his favourite

diagnostic, not curative. They do nothing to put barbecue joint where the food was abundant,

employees in an engaged mindset. calorific and irresistible (my client – or was it