SOURCE: 040519.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Cody Transcripts
TOPIC: Business Negotiations
SUMMARY: This text discusses the dynamic between a business and its suppliers, focusing on negotiation tactics and leveraging power as the business grows.
KEYWORDS: business negotiations, supplier relations, leverage, mindset, growth
---

products. Everything was OK, but it was it was.

Brett

Funny. Yeah. Yeah, that's that's when we're 100 stores. And that **** happens, it causes.

It's a real issue. When you're 1 store and you, you know that they're just moments to

embrace a customer even further. All right.

Cody

So. It's it's been funny. I've actually quite enjoyed. Being more of a **** *** with suppliers.

And part of that has come from me just being too busy to be soft with them.

Brett

Yep, it's amazing. Amazing. So you're you're tired and you're cranky. And I can't be

bothered with you. And you're surprised.

Cody

Yes. You have to send us free samples. Also, we can't have anything under 50% margin. It

doesn't make sense for our store. If you can work on that, let me know. And they've all said,

sure. Yeah, it's good. It's a good lesson.

Brett

Yeah.

Cody

We'll keep pushing that.

Brett

Well. These are. This is just the way it works in your personality and what you've gotta do it.

Is. Not get tired or cranky or too busy. You've just gotta know that the. That's the that's how

you have to be in that moment in that situation. Yeah. Doesn't mean you become a **** ***

as a, you know, your character and personality change. It's it's just. Yeah, yeah. This what

this situation requires.

Cody

Yep, no I am. I get it now.

Brett

Because they'll all have to skin you alive. No, they're not. They're not really. They're just

trying to make a bigger margin, the same as we're trying to make it bigger. You know, it's

just it's just games.

Cody

Well. It's. It feels good now. That I feel like we have leverage because we're a buyer. We

have a store, it's selling product. We're doing things you know before we had any of that, I

felt like the little guy just kind of got him to get product in the store. But yeah, I can't even

imagine what that will feel like when we have. Lots of stores open.

Brett

There's another thing about that which I can just jump in. It's it's about your mindset

because you were feeling that way because we weren't sure we didn't know we were ever

gonna come back and order more from you. We're just gonna. Be complete failure. And

you, you just your whole thing is don't be a big shot. Don't you know? Don't be a show pony.

You don't, you know, get beyond yourself. You know, all those things that make you who

you are came into play, right? Yeah. And you've just got to move past that. You. You know,

fake it till you make it type stuff. I promise you you won't turn into one of those awful

people. You just and you. It's it's one of the greatest tennis coaches. In the world he was,

he was also a. Great tennis player. He won a couple of opens and he coached. Federer it it

as an example. And. He said to me there is no difference in the top 100 tennis players in.

The world that. That you know those people than top one. 100 in their skill set. He said the

difference between the winners the Federer. Etc. Is their mindset. And that's no different in

business. It's it's your mindset that determines whether you win, not not whether you've

got the technical ability to negotiate or or be a good retailer or be a great merchant. It's just

you're you're attitude. That you bring to the game. There you go. So that maybe that's what

you're feeling. That's why now you're now you're you're doing all this and you're getting stuff

and we're we're better for it. And this is setting us up via, you know, freight. We don't pay

freight.

Speaker

Yeah.

Brett

I love it. Alright now. CBD have you? Have you gone bold enough? Is it 25% of the store

now?

Cody

I'm I'm working on it. I'm just kind of. Working through. All the crap, I mean, there's just a lot

of CBD companies now, so I'm trying to find the good ones and pick some differentiated

products because like I said, I don't want to cannibalize the best sellers already by getting

more of the same creams in. So I'm playing with it. It's yeah, be a couple more weeks

before those expand out really big.

Brett

Or and how did your experiment with the glasses go?

Cody

Good. Yeah. You know, I think you were spot on it. It's much more. It just looks better. It

feels better. It's got more concentrated energy. I think more people have walked up to

them. But it's only been a day or two, so I haven't seen a big sales change. But, you know,

we'll see this, this, they, those usually move on the weekend. Yeah.

Brett

Yeah, yeah. One of the things that's constantly rotating the store where you can also, even

though you might not make that sale, people who walk in that you might not sell them in

that moment, but when you do that sort of power merchandising. It reminds them. Ohh,

that's what they do and then they, when they do, think about it in the future or they think

that their son needs it or their daughter. What it or they're they're sharing. This stuff is

leaving impressions in them.

Speaker

For.

Brett

Not necessarily to build business, but to make sure that we get continuous repeat that you

know that they come back. So that's also there's a there's another bonus of continuing to

feature products so that it gets more aggressively in people's head. Again subliminally. But

it's all there.

Cody

I I power merchandise, the cue balls and have been selling more of those, which is which is