SOURCE: 040519.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Cody Transcripts
TOPIC: Retail Merchandising Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for effectively merchandising and promoting products, such as using cue balls to engage customers, managing inventory, and negotiating with suppliers.
KEYWORDS: product merchandising, customer engagement, inventory management, supplier relations
---

feature products so that it gets more aggressively in people's head. Again subliminally. But

it's all there.

Cody

I I power merchandise, the cue balls and have been selling more of those, which is which is

good. Actually it's a interesting story. I've actually focused on kids with the cue ball. These

kids in Beverly Hills come in on their expensive iPhones, playing their games, and the

parents are shopping. And the damn cue ball gets them off the phone, bouncing around,

adding the numbers up in their heads. Parents say I want. Two of them. Because it's just a

fun little distraction.

Brett

Yeah. And then remember, they'll go away for and they'll. Be put in. A box maybe never to

be seen again, or they might come out every every so often and I did the same thing when

when? And Bob brought them over after I explained what we. Were doing and. I said it

would be great for Sam. You know, I did the same thing. Great for Sam because his hand

eye coordination was wasn't thinking about any disorders or anything. Just. And I have

them in there every now and again I remembered it, you know, throw it at him and bounce

it. And you know, I might get 5 minutes out of him. And and that's it and. Like just to. What

I'm leading on to by asking that question now that you're all fired up with these *******

suppliers that are trying to steal from you. You've got to build relationships with them. And

to carry that on like with what you're doing with this power merchandising. You always

need to buy more product than you would normally carry in order. To do a power. To power

merchandise. Then you run through this. You always left over with a bit more than you need

when you take it down and put it back into its normal spot, which you eventually figure out.

Causes problems on inventory turns and the metrics that are important, but. The. The way

to overcome that is you go in and say I want to do this, but I want. To go on, I'll. Buy it. But I

want to be able to return that the excess or you take the risk on and say I'm gonna do this,

but I want a 10% discount just on this big. Big order and they'll. All do it based on the fact

that, well, you're never going to order that. Many if you don't do this and. That will cover it.

And so that's worth. It for me. So you try to find a way to improve your improve your sales,

but a double whammy is to improve your margin. Yeah, but not get left with a whole lot of

stock that throws out your metrics and every now and again you'll get. It wrong? You'll buy

a whole lot. And. That they won't. They won't improve the sales and then you, you, you're

sort of stuck. Take a long time to sell it through. So just the way to think about those, those

sorts of things. Because selling is one thing, getting a margin is is the next. Now I keep

wanting to tell you that margin is not the driver of our success yet product and pricing, but

no harm in hey, give me 10% discount. And they'll go, yes, or they'll go. What about 5?

Yeah, well, OK, I'll take 5. Did I share? Did I share that story with you about Walmart?

Cody

Which?

Brett

Yeah. Sam Walton, writing to all these suppliers and taking 10% off the months invoice, the

months purchases. Right. So here's Sam Walton, the greatest retailer of the world ever

produced.

Cody

No.

Brett

If he was alive today, he would still be the wealthiest guy in the world. And. He once did this

charming note. Dear supplier, dear valued supplier, we appreciate the business. We

appreciate the business. We appreciate your supply, the customers. Blah blah blah. We

are taking we are deducting 10% from every purchase in the month of May. We appreciate

your support and rest assured, rest assured we will pass this saving on to the customer.

Can can he didn't ask them. It wasn't. I I I'd like to do this. It was after the purchases have

been made for the month, he wrote him a note and accounts took 10% off every purchase

for the month of May and the the end result of this story was 1/3. Agreed.

Cody

Amazing.

Brett

Just didn't 1/3 didn't even.

Cody

It's gone.

Brett

Didn't even, but I just just said OK, suck it up a third negotiated. And the third said, we'll

sue you for the, you know, you know, so half his product came in at 10% off of that and they

they did part, they did push it out to the customers. So this particular, so this was the

largest. Dead linen supplier to Walmart, right? Huge. Huge business. Enormous business

and its success itself. That shared this with me and I said, what did you do? He said. We

gave it to. Him. Our business is built on Walmart.

Cody

Yeah.

Brett

He did pass it on to the customer. That reinforced Walmart's might, and you know, it was

all good for for business. But they said so Sam, never Sam never lost a dime. Just now

that's what you Walmart. I mean, this is this was 20 years ago or longer when when

Walmart was, you know, by far the largest supplier. Just to give you a sense of this doesn't

just go on it. Cody level it.

Speaker

It's.

Brett

A. It's a game that gets played regularly. It's fun. You gotta look at it. It's fun.

Cody

Yeah.

Brett

But one day you'll get to the stage where you can just write a note that says dear valued

supplier.

Cody