SOURCE: 040519.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Cody Transcripts
TOPIC: Real Estate Negotiation
SUMMARY: The text discusses negotiating a lease for a retail space, focusing on strategies to reduce rent and leverage the landlord's situation.
KEYWORDS: lease negotiation, rent reduction, sublease, landlord leverage
---

now we don't much care about five years from now. But these things we will care about.

So. If they. And it's really hard to do it in America doing a temper, A pop-up store. You've

still got to make sure that the sprinklers are are right and the fire is dry. And it's just really.

Expensive. I just think sometimes we've we've got, we've got other options just sitting until

they've got 1000 or 1200 square feet and yeah away they go that, this, this, this map says

available 1400 square feet next.

Cody

No, it's not. It's an old map. That's the space I wanted.

Brett

Yeah, yeah, of course. Of course you did.

Cody

So upstairs they're they're pushing us, but I still don't think upstairs.

Brett

Place. No, I wouldn't go upstairs either. By the way, what rate are they suggesting? Where

is that?

Cody

We hadn't gotten that far. I wanted to ask you, they all asked me. The two questions how

much are we paying at Century City and how much are we making? And I haven't really

shared that information with them yet, so.

Brett

Don't share. Don't share any of that with them at any time now. Eventually they'll. They'll

they'll find it out, but don't share it with them. Because there's only one purpose of that.

They're trying to figure out how much rent you can afford to pay.

Cody

Right.

Brett

So you you should tell them we got it for nothing. This is where you just lie. Because we got

it for nothing because they needed to fill this. And we're doing a test. And they're throwing

you out and you set. You say that to the the guy while he's in the while Westfield guys

listening that would have. Yeah, yeah.

Cody

The other one is interesting, but again it's not the ideal set. You can see in the picture on

the other side the other PDF. The store right next to it is the promenade, so it's one store off

of the promenade on one of the major streets. Yeah, it's a great size. The build out is. Looks

like it's pretty ready to move in. We just have to fix a. Couple of things with it, but which?

Brett

Which is an advantage.

Cody

Yeah. This was just so you're aware of the deal. Halo top, which is a big ice cream

company. Had some broker go and rent a bunch of properties for them, and the guy ended

up being a scumbag and got a bunch of bad deals and this one, the economics didn't make

sense. So they have basically sitting on it and paying rent every month at above market

rate. I think they have a three. Year lease on this space and the opportunity would be to

sublease it from the. And what I would potentially suggest is let's just. Love all the crap out

of them. And see. Hey, we'll take this off your hands for a year or two. But we're going to pay

1/3 of what market rate is, if that's interesting. Let's talk. If it's not. Good luck.

Brett

That's exactly it. And you don't even need to discuss this with me because these things are

all subject to, you know, you can anything. You're right, subject to directors approval, right.

That's that just gets. Got it. Just to throw it back at them because these are all fishing

expeditions from them. They're fishing from you. You're trying to find out what's the. What's

the level of interest here. Hey, listen. Yeah, at around 1/3 we we'd be there then cause it

doesn't matter what you say, they'll then come back with 75%. And you'll you'll start the

dance. So if all they'll come back and just go. Know if they come back at 75, you go not

interested and and you move through these things, eventually you'll get the ability to just

keep no bang. Yeah, we could do that. We'll do this. How how does that look? You sort of

move them into a shape where they might be sensible and in retail being one metre off the

pace is like being. 100 metres off the pace, it's as you're finding out it customers don't buy.

There's a there's what all non retailers think that everybody buys what they need. And as

you're now starting to understand. They they don't buy what they need. And. They don't

even know if they don't know you're down that little St. and there's no interest to go down

that street. There are only people that are walking past. That. Or are the pure customers

and you're finding this out about the cue balls. If you're stack them up, people buy more.

Not because. They need them. And so it even downstairs. So I can tell you there's about

50%. Just going take the promenade and you had a underground store that had to go

downstairs. You. Would drop your turnover by more than. Half. Yeah, that's just to go

downstairs and you can, when I say that I'm talking about you go downstairs and and you're

so your lululemon there. Or your lululemon. Downstairs, you'll do half your turnover, just

simple as that. That sort of. So be careful on that, but as you say, you can do half the

turnover, but if we get it a third the rent, we've got a a viable, A viable test.

Cody

Yeah. Ohh I'll just do it. I'll just take a little bit more on that one.

Brett

Promenade anywhere in the promenade scares the **** out of me because of the. Just the

rent and.

Cody

Yeah. Well, it's less. Less than what we're paying century City.

Brett

Yeah, yeah, but remember, we're overpaying there because of. Yeah, you know, don't think

don't set the bar on that rent. We're never gonna ship like we can't pay that sort of.