SOURCE: 050319.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Cody Transcripts
TOPIC: Retail Loss Prevention
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies to prevent and address shoplifting in a retail setting, focusing on customer-centric approaches.
KEYWORDS: shoplifting, loss prevention, customer service, retail security
---

shoplifting where customers these these aren't customers. So that's not calling customers

dishonest people trying to steal from us, which do exist in. The world progressively. Now. If

we shoplifters just like any other criminals. They go to. Lengths to figure out where and how

and who they should target. And the way in which they do that, of course, terrible to save it.

They're skilled. They think about it. It's it's not a random act in most cases, so they target

people that they think they won't get caught. Or if they do get caught. They'll just get away

with it. They'll just walk out and nothing. Nothing will come of it. So good. Customer

focused, meaning approaching everybody. All those things that help make a sale. Also the

exact things that deter people. Meaning this stores on, they approach everybody they're

watching, not watching. Because we're watching for thieves, but watching because we're

actively involved with caring about every customer, what they're doing, what they're

looking at, how we can help them, you know, all those things that you would talk about in

terms of sales. Then. They go elsewhere where people aren't aware where they can pop

stuff into their bag or put it into their hand and just and just walk. Out. So the importance.

So if we move to and the importance of what happens when we. Do catch somebody

that's. That's doing the wrong thing. Then you must approach them. If you have. That the

same it's the same sort of thing as sales confidence. It just switches to the confidence to

go up to somebody. And when you know when you've seen them put something in their

bag, you just go up and go it to them. Do you want me to hold that for you? Just like we

would if somebody had. No. Does that make sense? No different. Somebody's got

something in you would. You just it's the same confidence. It's just harder to do that says.

Can I hold that for you? And they go.

Speaker

What?

Brett

Together thing that you just popped in your bag. I'll put it on the counter for you and I'll help

you out without. And then that way you're not accusing them. Of. Anything except for good

customer service the same way as it's. It's just, you know, there's those sorts of ways. You

do have to role play this and so this is the stuff that I think is fun. When you move away

from shoplifting does happen. How do we stop it? That's. Our. Job shrinkage happens. We

have dishonest customers, we have dishonest suppliers. We occasionally have all sorts of

dishonesty our.

Speaker

Job.

Brett

As owners and managers and team is a is, how do we make sure that it is less than

anybody else gets, so we send this, we make sure that we don't get the dishonest people

into our store. And then secondly, if we do, we can approach them and turn that situation

where I've just watched you put that in my bag. How do I go and say, well, I'll help you and

they go. I didn't put anything in my bag. Well, yes, you. Did. And can I? Have a look. Yeah.

Then at that moment, they are far more likely to go well. I'm caught here at that moment.

They know because they're dishonest. They know how the laws work. They go. Yeah. Sorry

for sure. And hold it, and then they hang around for a bit longer and then they leave just like

any they're pretending to be a customer. What you've done is you've got rid of that

customer, you've you, you've told, told her or him. That we know what you're up to. And

that it won't come back. Yeah, that's that's how you got to approach these things. What

happens is everybody gets wound up. Oh, my God, it's dishonest. Oh, my God. Am I

supposed to tell them they're dishonest? Am I supposed to touch them? Yeah, all this CNN

and Fox. Comes rushing and and and hits them in their head. And Oh my God, I read

somewhere that you accused somebody. And and I read somewhere that somebody got

bashed up because they had an old it. It's just the shoplifting is going on all the time.

Speaker

It's.

Brett

And you gotta you gotta. Not so. The reason you talk about it is so that. It's not unusual.

Here's what you do now. The final thing to talk about. Is that if it gets rough and there are.

The the probably unlikely to have this issue in pharmacist because the very product they're

they're trying to steal. But they're. There is getting to be. This usually happens with

professional. You know, shoplifting gangs that you know, actually sort of do this for an

absolute living. You know, the, the, the hardened criminals, they know that. The. If they if

they get aggressive.

Cody

That.

Brett

The team will the team will back off because we will generally all have policies that say.

You know, don't don't tackle them and we wouldn't expect our team to to get in any way

aggressive with. Customers. So it's a bit like if you feel out of your depth, let it happen now.

If it was you, mate, I'd expect you to just put them in a headlock and do what you need to

do. You know, you can't feed from and that will also help. Keep these shoplifters and

criminals out of our store. So did all that. Does that resonate with you as a different way to

think about it?

Cody

Yeah. So I have two questions, so. In the case that you approach someone and say, hey,

can I help you with that or can I put that on the counter while you shop and they just say no