SOURCE: 050719.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Cody Transcripts
TOPIC: Mental Health Services
SUMMARY: The discussion explores the challenges and potential solutions in providing affordable and accessible mental health services, including the role of therapists, coaches, and alternative approaches.
KEYWORDS: mental health, therapy, affordability, accessibility, regulation
---

we have always. Talked about we're we're a part of the solution. We're so in my mind the

the way that I really thought about this is when and now it's morphed into something

differently, but we. It's almost after you've been to your therapist. When you're starting to

get clarity, or at least after you've read the books, but when you've admitted that you've got

an. Issue what what? Next therapist, multiple different levels and whatever, and then even

the even the therapists don't know what will. Work for you? You know it. Meditation,

colouring in books. Distraction, you know stuff. And that was in my mind how that. That

would go what? Resonate with me, as you said that. In many cases where where the start

of the journey. And how do we how do we help push push them into the greater solution. So

what resonated with me? Of course. Do we have, you know multiple is, is there a way to

build this business where we're passing on business now? I absolutely believe that there is

a shortage of therapists. Properly therapist. But there's also the second issue is. It's very

expensive. You know it, it is a tough job for for these professionals to fund up and pay, you

know, these enormous. Hourly rates, you know, for the average per they think twice about

it, particularly when you know you're not dying. I mean you're. You are dying on the inside,

but you're not dying. And when you've got mild? You know, we've all got anxiety. It's just the

the the level. Then you go. Ohh God, I gotta spend 200 bucks, you know a week for. For one

or two visits. Now. So that's that's sort of. To me, we're sort of. You know, pull pulls it up.

But but can we? Commoditize somehow? I mean that's why I really loved the video. I I did. I

love that idea because it also it went to, you know, for 20 bucks you can get, you know. Da

da da. So with.

Cody

I think there's definitely. There's definitely something there. It's just. A. It's another very

heavily regulated industry, so there's so many rules about what you can and can't do as far

as mental health services go. Which is not a problem in some cases that can be a solution.

It just. When you say heavily regulated, it basically just means more expensive and takes

longer.

Brett

Yeah, it makes somebody supposed to have a degree and. In you know, but you know

anxiety Coach, I mean, is at one level downright. It means I can do all that, but I, but I'm not

qualified. I can't write a prescription because that's as soon as you can write a

prescription. The cost double s like it's.

Speaker

Yeah.

Brett

That's 300 bucks an hour, then. Then you come down to the therapist who's can't write a

prescription but is. Yeah. And then it comes down to what what's the name with the anxiety

coach? Who's Amanda? Yeah, she's unqualified, except for.

Cody

OK.

Brett

Is well read and well understood, and it's her thing. And I can I can. I can sort of support

you and then you you gotta like you. I mean there's a there's a connection that's gotta

happen with these people. If you can't if they don't connect they're no good no. Matter how

you. Know. So we know all that, right? So can we? Can we, you know, think of this as a tech

problem. How do we take that one-on-one that's very expensive and make it 1? You know

the what? What are those guys you told me about the other day that the gym guys. Alright,

you know, they keep popping up everywhere. I bloody go. Everybody wants to be telling me

that and I'm told. Yesterday, they're about to. Float for $4 billion, right and and IPO for $4

billion. It's the same thing, isn't it? One sexy girl or one sexy guy? Or and it's just it's going

out. With the value add of competing. Which humans love to compete.

Cody

Yeah. So.

Brett

Got any thoughts on it? You know, because that's how we bring it. To the masses at A at an

affordable price.

Cody

Yeah, let me try to put something together because I think a better analogy for something

like this would be 1 medical do you know, one medical.

Brett

I don't.

Cody

So I pay 200 bucks a year to be a part of one medical which has. 5 or 6 different retail

offices, doctors offices in LA, they have a doctor that I go to, but it's a service where I

basically get same day appointments, prescriptions written. Everything's managed through

an app, but it's a consistent quality of doctor. It's a consistent.

Brett

Yeah.

Cody

Brand and experience, and I think that for mental health would be a huge company

because there's not one. If all these people, all these therapists.

Speaker

Yep.

Cody

Are in their own little random offices. You have to reach out to them all individually. You

have to negotiate prices, half of them aren't covered by your insurance. If someone could

fix all of that and make a place where it really qualified, you had the same experience

anywhere on the planet you go in. There's all these other services that are added into that

mix. Even like meditation, all the way to education or consumer products.

Brett

Yeah, yeah.

Cody

I think that's a very big company. I just don't certainly a lot of unknowns as to what it would

take to get there. But I can play with that for. A little bit.

Brett

And play with it. I love that idea. And just if in your where you're playing with it and you find

people that are trying. To do this.

Cody

Yeah.

Brett