SOURCE: 050919.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Cody Transcripts
TOPIC: Vending Machine Opportunities
SUMMARY: The text discusses the potential for placing vending machines in various locations, such as hospitals, to provide convenient services and generate revenue.
KEYWORDS: vending machines, revenue generation, convenience services, hospital settings, business opportunities
---

example that the ATM machines pay an extraordinary rent. In our property departments

and we have you know, 20 ATM machines and they'll pay ten, $15,000 a year for this little

space that nothing. And they they pay us because. That's that's the value, the convenience.

So the answer is to your question, yes. Some now. I would think we would end up having to

pay and this because usually the ones that it's free is like, oh God, we're getting all these

complaints about. There's nowhere to get anything to eat. There's nothing nowhere to get

anything to drink. I just want coffee and I can't get one. And you know, you just think about

the hospital, right? And they got Jesus Christ. And some goes OK, put those machines in,

but it's usually the solve a problem that they've got without having to worry about it. You go

in and talk about stress and anxiety, I'm sure. Nobody is in in the hospital now. You might

catch them because they know stress and anxiety is a big deal and it like, that's a service

we should put in and that I'm talking too much. The answer is, where do you think we

should start? I don't think there are any risks. Except we'll blow 6 or 7000 bucks.

Cody

Yeah.

Brett

UM. And. At night, Sleepy day seems to be very popular. You whack it CBD into a hospital

with.

Cody

Yeah.

Brett

The issue is when something becomes a proper business though, it doesn't. When you see

vending machines and I've got no idea how the Best Buy vending machines that I see in

airports.

Cody

Work.

Brett

But that's genuinely the only thing I see. Ever other than. You know, crap chip bags of, you

know, potato chips and things. You don't really see it, yeah.

Cody

Yeah, I I don't know. I don't know how much of our stuff too. Like we talked about requires a

person there selling you on why you should have it or the environment that you're walking

into. Yes, but. Yeah, I think it's an interesting test. I think it I'm going to. I'm not going to

press the trigger yet. I want to do a little more research and maybe call it up too and just

see what I.

Speaker 3

Alright.

Cody

Can learn.

Brett

But well, Matt, I'm not against it. At all. So. I'm. I'm not for it. I'm not against it. If you think

you. It's it's like always, it's execution that the idea is easy, the execution is hard. You know,

how are we gonna brand it? How you what's called, what's the call to action, what price

points that need to go in there? Yeah.

Cody

Yeah. I mean, the point of both of these things too is just that. We're we're exploring how

else to spin this. So at the end of the day too. Like we talked about with the holidays and

summer coming. We could still be sitting on a working model here, especially if we were

finding a little bit and we might have just. Had a slow a slow month. But yeah, let's keep

going. Let's keep.

Brett

Let's keep going. But I like the idea of trying to get get some of the professionals and and

how do we how do we connect with them and and support them? Or how do we even

create our own professionals and and pay and pay them? And and you know, and that

becomes a part of, you know, where the whole think about it in terms of the whole solution

rather than one. Trying to be the other. You know, is that you? You. Rightly know this. What

what problem are we trying? To solve where? We know this problem exists. We know it's

resonating. How do we be a part? Of that solution to. To to having people come back and

go. Thank you, Carlos. Your you have been a part of my successful journey. Yeah. Yeah,

yeah, yeah. I mean that. The guy you introduced me to the other day in the in the store next

door. Rod and gun. It it's look, it felt to me like he's he's got on top of his his his issue how

biggest poster will be you know people that stay you know I started it. Karma started my

journey and was a part of my. And they'll then become the big ads over time. Yeah. All right,

buddy. So I think that all that makes sense think think about it do in many times in many

ways I think about this is just do. Something you know? Pick anything and we'll we'll learn

from it.

Cody

Yeah. Talk to me about butter churning.

Brett

So I went to. This is my neighbor, who Bob, who does the balls. And he he just said, Brett,

this this blender thing. Have you seen it? I said no. And he said what made me think of it is

it makes butter out of anything, right? Healthy butter. And he said, but you ought to be

putting anxiety stuff in cannabis, CBD. And it can, it's, he said. It's an amazing machine

that I said send send me it and he did. So I was thinking that theatre.

Cody

Yeah.

Brett

Like we could have the ingredients there, Chuck them in just for fun. We could put the

butter in the fridge. But if you and then I thought if you could find something that went in

there that. Was calming. And. The CBD guys and the marijuana guys, they're all looking for

every which way to. And so it just occurred to me that those machines don't cost much.

What if we made something ourself? We you've got the fridge there for the ice creams,

yeah. Once a day you make some stuff for customers. What? What's going on there? We've