SOURCE: 050919.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Cody Transcripts
TOPIC: Wellness and Motivation Programs
SUMMARY: The text discusses the need for a motivational and wellness program that combines elements of therapy, motivational speakers, and interactive activities to enhance mood and prepare people to tackle life's challenges.
KEYWORDS: motivation, wellness, mental health, therapy, self-improvement
---

They need their mood enhanced, they need to be excited about life and all of these things

that are happening and I.

Speaker 3

Yeah.

Cody

I haven't seen anywhere doing just a motivation class or a. Get jazz class where it's not

exercise, but it's just to come here. Something really exciting. Get your mood up, get your

week going. Get ready to tackle life. Kind of a thing that that wouldn't require us to have

therapist. It would require us to have almost motivational speakers or people that. Know

how to get you pumped. And maybe there's music and dancing and all this other stuff. I

don't know. It's kind of an interesting idea that that I hadn't seen that. I can imagine a lot of

LA bombs. Getting into it as part of their daily routine, I don't know if there's anything there,

but something that could be explored a little bit more.

Brett

Yeah.

Cody

Because the harder therapy stuff, I think we're just competing against. A lot of entrenched

players, and unless we're really going out and getting great therapists and building a brand

around the quality of the services we're providing, I think it will just be perceived as these

guys tacked on. Therapist onto their retail store. You know. Which is not impossible to do,

but I just I'm I'm trying to figure out how you think about that, yeah.

Speaker 3

Yeah.

Brett

You know, I would think about it differently if you were right. If we ended up being these

guys are retailers and they tacked on some, you know, part time therapists. Yeah, that that

wouldn't work. The reason I think differently about it is that what's missing in the

marketplace is.

Speaker 3

The the.

Brett

Physiotherapy physiotherapists.

Speaker 3

Psycho.

Brett

Therapists and psychiatrists, they exist, and there's a I I understand there's a shortage of

them. But they are typically stuck in the medical world. They've got no they've got no real

clue and. You get your hours session. Or whatever however you want. And you'll either

come out with a prescription for. Drugs, which in many cases is exactly what you need. But

that's that's only. It's only a small part of the cure, the rest is work. You've got to do right.

And then there's the. That they are generally. No clue as to how to bring it all together, and

it feels to me like what's missing is. That the two parts because you have to work on

yourself, right. You've got to recognize it and it and it's and then it becomes different from

everybody. So I feel like what's missing is the next step. You've been here. Now go here

and. That here, here's here's the place. Now, those two things can work together, and

indeed support each other if they're done properly. As in, we're not a retailer trying to be a

therapist and we're not psychiatrist trying to be. A. You know, sell, sell extra things. It is a

holistic approach where you need lots of different things, including motivation classes.

You know what, what is an affirmation? It's just a a. It's a. It's a motivation. I've gotta. I've

gotta get my mind focused on this. What? What is a? You know what's an icebreaker in a

group? You go around an icebreaker. It's just a way to focus your attention on. Leave

everything aside. And that's the problem, or the challenge, or the wonderfulness of of all

these issues, right is when you know, just because you occasionally anybody that's going

to make a speech has an anxiety attack or not an anxiety attack but has anxiety that's

called human until it starts to affect your. And and can lead to severe pains like depression

and so on. So. That's half the problem. You know when? When is it diagnosed? You know,

bloody schizophrenia or when have you just got an imagination? You know? It's it's it's

crazy stuff, but. So I mean, I think we could do it all together. I think it would be how we

approach it now in no way did I think about the concept as that we would. End up. Having

you know, building something that. Was was more of a health.

Speaker 3

Yeah.

Brett

Mental health place with retail added on. But an audit, I think that you know, motivate, I I

probably don't like the idea of just get yourself going every day. Because. We have to, I

think we have to stick with the stress and anxiety because that's the big issue that to be

solved that it seems multiple people are suffering from. That's how I think about that

anyway. That was a long winded answer, but I also think shouldn't we try and the reason I

thought about the space is because we've got it, it's free, right, it's it's right.

Cody

There, the space behind the store. Yeah, yeah.

Brett

At least, you know could would would a man you know because you know, Amanda, but

you know, reach out to somebody we want to run the class. If we can get 10 people signed

up, will you come and. Will you come and?

Speaker 3

Do. It.

Brett

UM. Is that?

Cody

Yeah, it's it's worth an experiment for sure.

Brett

Yeah. I mean, it's something in the store that says glasses, you know, now if we just paid

Amanda, we'll give you 100 bucks, you'll come right or whatever, you know, you'll come

and maybe nobody will turn up. Or maybe we'll have 10 people. And we'll charge them

what whatever you think made 20 bucks a session. Or 30 or. Yeah. Is that, does that lead

us into something? How popular would that be?

Cody

Yeah, let's test it. Let's see. I'm going to design a couple. I'll talk to Amanda. I'll talk to a