SOURCE: 061319.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Cody Transcripts
TOPIC: Retail Management and Customer Service
SUMMARY: This text discusses strategies to improve employee engagement, customer experience, and accountability in a retail setting.
KEYWORDS: retail management, customer service, employee accountability, performance management, mystery shopping
---

does get it, so you have to keep coming back. To. This is what's required of you because

they're cheating.

Speaker 3

Great.

Speaker

Yeah.

Brett

You you don't want to think that they're all cheating you, but they're cheating you so they

know what to do when you're there. And they do. The right thing the moment you leave,

there's no consequence. And they'd rather be yakking to their to their teammates than

being. Proper. Salespeople ready and willing to. Serve the customers. Acknowledge the

customers when they come in so it so some of the things you do is you. Run mystery

shopper. Reports so you have to educate them that every customer will be merchant and

will will be approached. That's what you've done already. You've got to get them to

acknowledge that. Sign it. That's the that's the legal part that every customer will be

acknowledged within X seconds. And then you have to test that and the bit that you don't

like to do is that you need to run a mystery shopper, so somebody needs to go in there and

you can do it once a week. You've got so many friends. Just go in there and it's a simple

matter of what happens. And that didn't happen. And Shirley, whatever. Sorry, I'm using.

I'm just made that name. Up. And somebody will need to be fired. Before you switch the

culture, but you can't just be Hitler about it. You've got to educate them. We're chasing

numbers. You have to show them they've got to hit their numbers. Here's how you hit your

numbers. You are here to be responsible. You bring your you, you bring your a game every

time you show up to work. You're gonna bring your a. Game. Just because I'm in the store.

That's disrespectful. You do the right thing and you do it when I'm not there. So that's where

things like it's it's not what happens when you're in the store that matters. It's what

happens when you're not in the store, that that matters. So, and and unfortunately, it is a

matter. Of. If you find somebody that hasn't acknowledge you, pull them out of the store.

You sit them down and you explain to them that if you ever do that again, you don't have a.

Job. That's that's the deal, and you'll lose a few and the others will get it and they'll switch

on and they'll stay on for their entire shift. And then you put the fun around it and a good

culture around it. And they're happy to come come to work. You tell them you're not here to

have conversations. With each other. That is not customer first. Customer first is customer

walks into the store and they think the only person that matters in that store is is the is that

the when they? Walk into it. And then you've had those couple of examples of customer

complaints? It can't happen. Not in this store, not in my business. It won't happen. Are you

up for that? And they go? Yes. And you record it and you have to, actually. Get them to

acknowledge that so give you some. Experiences. So when that happens, you get them to

write to you, right? I need an e-mail within the next 5 minutes. Take your time. Right. What

did you learn from this and what are you going to do from here? And. If they write the right

thing. You go good. We're good. Happy High 5. Let's go. If they don't write the right thing,

you go. And I don't think you wanna be here. And and that's that's what happens. And if you

if you can't do that, then you will end up having them run the show and not you. Yeah, that's

so now none of that's new to you, right? It would have been new to you 3. Months ago, but

now. You get why you have to do that now the only thing is you gotta keep the fun

ingredients going with it, which you're already doing, that you're a good guy. You're there,

you're running around. The store with. And and and therefore they they won't feel that it's

that. It's harsh. Then they'll get excited about and they'll see the difference. And if they

can't see the difference, they're still required to do it. It doesn't. Sometimes you get to the

point where they. Don't care whether. You understand why you're supposed to do that? But

you have to do this. It's no different to if you're working in, you know you're making stents in

some factory, and you have to sterilize your hands every time before you walk into. It's not,

it's. Not ohh I do.

Speaker 3

But.

Brett

You know, 87% of the time, but it's like it's 100%, there's zero, you know, there is 0

tolerance on this. It's yeah, 0 tolerance means 0 tolerance and it means it's not 0

tolerance. So I'll let you off if you do it the first time. It's 0 tolerance.

Speaker 3

Yep.

Brett

And you'll eventually get the people that appreciate it, understand and have a good

attitude. Who? Who? Who? Get there? There is a, you know, the we're not even millennials

now, are they? What are they? The Who? What's the average person we're employing?

Speaker 3

What's?

Cody

18 yeah.

Brett

Yeah, what's what's that?

Cody

Of Generation Z probably.

Brett

The Z guys. It's a shock for them, particularly if it's their their first jobs. It's a shock to them

that they can't do whatever they want to do. It's like it really. And sometimes it takes them

to be sacked a couple of times before they rotate in and sometimes you never know when

you've got the guy. That's been sacked. Twice, and then finally they realize. Ohh ****. I'm