SOURCE: 061819.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Cody Transcripts
TOPIC: Inventory Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of data integrity and proper inventory tracking processes in a retail business.
KEYWORDS: data integrity, inventory tracking, process improvement, employee training, retail operations
---

if you if you haven't done, if you're not a doctor, I can't let you operate. It doesn't matter

how great your intent is or your attitude is. If you're not a doctor, I don't care. You're a good

guy. And and you followed all the rules.

Speaker

Sure.

Brett

And you, you. You failed to be a doctor. I. Mean you're not right.

Cody

Right, right, right. Yeah. All right, last quick note, I don't think there's a solve, but. I think,

and I've said this 50 times, just like you said it 50 times to me, data integrity is everything

we have to be keeping track of every single thing this store because we've been making a

lot of changes recently and moving products around every day. There's something we

discover where it's. Hey, says we have three of these. We actually have seven of them.

How did this happened? Who's at fault? You know, I think that will probably get better with

time and as we. Get down to. Building out our processes, but I just wanted to know if you

had any thoughts around how to communicate that to the team, how to build the process

out.

Brett

And it's it's refer it, it will be better when we have somebody who's truly the manager, who

you can say you are accountable for this. It's really hard when you've got, as you say, 18

year olds that. They really haven't got their head around. How a business even remotely

should operate. But you do need to keep mentioning data integrity, but you've got to then

get down to the tin tax. This is how you receive product in. This is the only way to sell it out.

So it's the it's that same rule based. I I prefer to call them standards. This is the only way

that we move product around. This is the only way we transfer. This is the only way we deal

with faults. This is the only way we. Sell a product. That one of the. One of the things you'll

find, for example, is people who don't understand. If we don't put a focus on it because you

have stuff in the store that's the same price. If you don't explain to the to the team that.

Because sometimes they'll go. You know this and this are both 399. They'll scan that twice

because they think all they got to do is. Get the the price right. Some people don't

understand what the barcode actually means, you know, and why should they stop

keeping units? So you need to run an education on that so that people are aware this is

important.

Brett

There's.

Brett

And you run through that training with them. That's one of the common mistakes that

happens and and receiving in and and transferring out. So you've just, you've just gotta

keep improving it. And. And so you gotta write it up. And so you found these seven the other

day. You know, your weekly update says guys data and tech Leona reminds you again,

everything has to be scanned out. Everything has to be scanned individually by Unit 1 at a

time. Whether it's selling, it's receiving it. Shifting it. This top of their mind.

Cody

Yeah. All right. Cool.

Brett

The only way? And eventually you'll run training. Many manages meetings that will, you

know, you'll do 1/2 hour session on this with, you know, people that are held accountable

for it.

Cody

OK. OK. We talked about compliance. Just so yeah. The quick note here on the time

management prioritization every couple months, I bring this up just to chat about it with

you. I'm in a bit of an odd place I feel because I've most of my time is actually. Managing

the store and reordering products and dealing with team and now hiring and fixing stuff and

dealing with all of that. It's harder for me to allocate time to OK, let's talk about the

subscription box thing and what that digital business will look like or let me actually sit

down and write what's going to be on the store signage. You know that's a huge priority and

I'm doing that. But. Are these things that I need to be delegating, that we hire someone else

to do? Do I just push them back a little bit and eventually get to him? Because it it is, it is a

full time job managing even a 300 square foot store, which is shocking to me, but it it's it's a

lot.

Brett

Yeah, yeah. You'll get better at it and, but I feel with what's happened this week that if you

wanted to, if you felt that it would. Help that you could actually try to find somebody to put

in charge of the store that can then.

Brett

Ah.

Brett

You can work through them a bit more. That would pull out, you know, 5 or 10 hours a

week. I think we could, we could do that. What I'm concerned about it's going to be very

hard to get anybody. That's not just a glorified.

Brett

That. That.

Brett

You won't be able to go sort out sort out Dora and Maddie, but. And if we pay them the the

level. That they should. They won't want to work in a store that's turning over that smaller,

and it's a bit like the visa thing that no Levisa store manager is actually a store manager.

They're just, they're just not.

Speaker

OK.

Brett

They we call them that.

Brett

But.

Brett

They're they're not. The regional manager handles these people issues and the data

integrity issues. Now you do have some just because.

Cody

Interesting.

Brett

You can't pay that somebody that 50 grand. That's 60 grand that's required. And second of