SOURCE: 061819.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Cody Transcripts
TOPIC: Workplace Culture and Behavior
SUMMARY: The text discusses how to address and avoid problematic workplace dynamics, focusing on dealing with difficult employees and fostering a professional environment.
KEYWORDS: workplace culture, employee behavior, conflict resolution, performance management, code of conduct
---

work environment. And what you're learning is most of the time the bad workplaces are

caused by bad people rather than the generally conceived idea that it's bad employees. So

you have to be able to work. You have to be able to be professional. This stuff of them

coming and. Wasting your time with. Vendettas and politics. And so all this has to you've

got to find a way to get this in which because if you don't talk about it, you don't start off on

it, then you will. You won't get rid of it as a culture and eventually build a culture where this

stuff doesn't happen. Gossips, not all.

Speaker

Yeah.

Brett

What did you say, tattletaling? You know, you gotta put the right words around. That but.

It's not permitted. It's not wanted. When you need to talk to somebody, you go up, but

you're talking about serious stuff. Not you. Not not. And. And you got to find the right words

for for all that. So that's that's the most important part out of this. That needs to happen so

that you figure out how do we avoid this. From being as bad as it was. We're not going to.

Roster around the personalities of of people, although there are certain times. When you'll

when. You will make the assessment of these two just can't work together, and if you had

another store, you'd just go. I'm shifting one across there and you'll find they turn into good

people. When you gave the answer in the start, the person that you clearly want is Maddie,

right? She's the superior performer for the business. Now all you gotta do is figure out how

you get rid of Dora. And leave her with, you know, in a respectful way and leave her with her

integrity. But when? They're behaving badly. By the definition of badly and and, we've gotta

make sure we've got that definition written down somewhere. And that's why codes of

conduct. Coaches value systems. You know, this is. How we behave? So they sign up to.

There's how we behave. Now. You've then got doors going. You've got. To get rid of Dora. So

but the the issue that you've got. I mean, play around with this, but I mean the reason I can

jump straight to this and I've handled this myself more times than I could want to

remember. I've given advice like this more times than I want to remember. There isn't a

day, there's hardly a day that goes around when you do store visits with people and you'll

walk out and go what's going on there. And I'll tell you.

Brett

Yes.

Brett

And. It's worse when it's an all female environment. You know you're not allowed. You're

not allowed to say that out loud, but I can tell you for a fact it's it's when you bring girls and

guys into multi sex stores. Then it it helps this particular thing and so on. So it's the same

thing. So all you've got to do is I need to get rid of Dora. I want to keep. Maddie, these two

things don't have to be combined or they can get be combined because bad behaviour you

2 are both behaving badly. I can tell you I have to talk to you if you don't. If the two of you

don't suit this, you will both go or one of you will go. I don't want to be the one to make that

choice. Here is the behavior we expect. Here is the behavior that you're performing. They'll

because they're 18. They'll go. That's unfair because it's her. Gold and sugar? That's unfair.

It is hip hop. It's all whatever it is. Emotional crap. As long as you can define, here's the

behavior that we want. And if we haven't told them, you say, here's the behavior that we

want. That's your first step. You have to adhere to that. And go off and do that and then in

one week's time or two weeks. Time if they're. These are immediate fixes. You don't have to

say you've got one week to sort that out, but you do have to put all this in writing.

Brett

So.

Brett

Maddie, door. It's come to my attention that, you know, I I don't want to hear about your

previous life. It's not part of our value system. You have to work. You leave your baggage. At

the door. You don't let it interfere and work. You don't let it fire in professionalism. We're

here to do a job. If you 2 can't sort this out, I will. Need to sort it out because the business

and it'll go like this.

Brett

You'll both go.

Brett

Or one one of you will go, then you might want to make sure that Maddie is that you

recognize that. Hey, Maddie, you're valued. Here's here's an assessment I want to tell you

all those things you just said. Bang, bang, bang, bang. You should tell them all that. I see

you here as long term you love it. Your attitude is fantastic towards showing up to work. It

the one thing letting you down is this relationship personality issue that you've got which is

bringing down your professionalism. It's bringing down your attitude. You're you're making

issues that you're bringing to me that aren't and you just write all that down, mate. Just the

same way as you and send it off to them and say give me by e-mail, say acknowledge this,

or you might do it personally with. That's up to you. But the one thing I want to urge with you

mid you'll you'll get used to dealing with this issues. You'll get to the point where you'll be

able to do this off the back of your head. Well, that's not gonna work, guys. You guys have