SOURCE: 0619.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Cody Transcripts
TOPIC: Customer Service Management
SUMMARY: A customer complaint leads to a discussion on handling customer interactions and team member management.
KEYWORDS: customer service, employee training, conflict resolution, customer complaints, team management
---

Customer with excuse me, just a moment. I just put my. Hand out and say hi. To the team

members. So this is two of three Saturdays are going.

Speaker

Whatever it was.

Brett

Then I'll go out into the backroom. Footwear, backrooms are very big, full of stock and

Daniel and I having conversation with the store manager team member comes in and was

very sheepish and very shy. So we stopped. Yeah, of course you can interrupt. Yeah, I'm

really sorry. She overly sorry. There's something strange here, she goes. I've got a

complaint. And she's telling the store manager now. And Daniel steps in and goes Yep.

We'll, we'll, we'll, we're, we're here. We'll handle it well. It's about Brett. Right. And I went

well, OK, now this hasn't happened for years, right. OK. And and of course, the poor team

member is like.

Speaker

Yes.

Brett

Like what? What? What is she? She's conflicted between the customer and. The well so. It

was, it was like, almost funny. She goes well. You know, when, Brett, you came in and and

said hello to me and interrupted the customer and and here. She said. Well, she's.

Outraged that. You would. Wow. OK, that's new. Like this is like in all the years. So you got

to think about this and and and so. I guess the hill and so. When I was Sarah, I said Sarah

Ellis. I'm sorry to have put you in that situation. No, no, I'll. I'll handle it so. Went out to the

customer and said. Hi. And she she just got into me. It was really. I haven't had this happen

for a long time. And we work hard for this not to happen. She got into me, she.

Speaker 3

Said I work.

Brett

For the thing and what you did, there was just so rude that you would interrupt me,

interrupt your team member while she's serving a customer while she's serving me. And

Daniel and I, we and you know you're completely correct. Thank. You for that. For that,

because you never attack you never, you never tried to explain. That was her perception

that I had. Ask. Please me for interrupting. Just wanted to say hello, which said most of the

world was very reasonable and you. But the point about the lesson. And so Daniel and I left

and go. ****. We have to think about that and that's the way you. Better. Attack all these

complaints is what's the relevance of that? Who is that? We have to read the play better.

You've got to teach everybody to. And even an expert supposedly like me. You can get that

wrong where I'm. Totally focused on making sure that I connect with the team members

and acknowledge them, and I've stepped out of bounds with this particular customer.

Now. Does that mean we change our policy? Does that mean I stopped doing that? The

answer was wrong, but what you can't do is get ****** *** about it and know that

customers are wrap bag and some customers are just wrap bags, you know, and you you

can't please all. Of. Them and the the noisy minority, what I call the noisy minority.

Sometimes get more attention than they deserve because they're in your face, but mate,

so I share that story with you. Is that even 40 years on, and I'm supposed to be an expert,

this happened to me. Even I must admit, it hasn't happened for years and years where I've

had any sort of. But that was peculiar instance that we have to learn from now. I have

decided not to do anything about that. It's a one off. But I will be far more conscious now of

the the customer that I am just asking to excuse anyway. Do not worry about.

Cody

Yeah. Great story.

Brett

This one single Google Instant and think about customer complaints as an opportunity for

us to learn something and improve something.

Cody

All right, perfect. That's that's pretty much all I have. Two other little quick questions. One

is, should we bother with trying to get Westfield approval on the decal or just go do it all

right? That would be fun.

Brett

No, do it. They hopefully they won't notice. They do notice. Don't take it down and you'll

you'll plead with them for a month. Until we figure. Out whether it's a, a strategy that works.

Cody

All right. And then the next thing the the new accountant that I'm talking to, it has a

standard 12 month. Contract. You can cancel it but. Just wanted to run that by you before.

Brett

I what does it mean? You can cancel it.

Cody

I don't know yet, but it's a you gives it a 30 day cancellation window. So I I don't think you

pay for the whole year upfront. I think you pay month to month. I need to confirm that when

you cancel that you don't have to pay for the rest.

Speaker

Yeah.

Speaker 3

Ah.

Brett

Of the year, you definitely wouldn't want to sign up for 12 months. But if he genuinely has a

it's a 12 month contract that you can opt out of at any time for any reason. Then the

relevant. Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 3

2nd.

Brett

Good luck with this. I'm you know every now and again there's luck and hope that shouldn't

enter into business, but we've made some good decisions here. Let's hope that they they

lead to A to a better and bigger outcome.

Cody

Yeah, sounds good. I will.

Brett

Thanks buddy. Keep me informed next week. See ya.

Cody

Talk soon. Right.