SOURCE: 0619.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Cody Transcripts
TOPIC: Retail Sales Management
SUMMARY: The document discusses improving store operations, team performance, and customer engagement to address issues highlighted in customer feedback.
KEYWORDS: sales management, store operations, customer feedback, employee training, retail strategy
---

We need to get better at working two or three sales at once instead of just focusing on the

one which I've said since the beginning. It was hard. It's it takes some training to do so. I

need a better, better way of doing that. I think her point at the end is well taken. You know

again.

Brett

Right.

Cody

It does. The store does have a lot of random assortment of candles and eye masks and tea

and cards, and that's what we're trying to fix. So. I think on that front, on the front end,

frankly, we need to, we need to get better. The team needs to get better. I need to get

better. As a manager, we need to just improve. How? That's. How we're operating, we're.

We're still new and we feel a little sloppy and I feel like it's going to make a big difference to

make that better.

Speaker

Yes.

Cody

But I just. Yeah, I wanted to get your perspective.

Brett

I mean, you've said it all. You couldn't have said it any any better and it's one of the reasons

why it's somehow or other you're going to be very successful.

Speaker 3

The so.

Brett

I just had a couple of things to this and she has done us a favour. And by by riding that. It's

always. It's always hard not to take these things personally. And we wish you hadn't have

sent that out to, you know, the whole universe. But she's done us a favour because you've

now recognised those very important things. You said we need to get better at when a store

is full. Can you? When somebody walks in the store, at least make eye contact.

Acknowledge that they come in. But that's just polite. We already know that. And she

pointed out that that didn't happen. So there's an opportunity training. It's an opportunity

to share with the team members. That. Is what happened. How can we improve we we are

going to have moments where the store is full and you can't get to anybody. That is part and

parcel of the way it works. We gotta have less of those moments. And when those

moments happen, we've got to have, we've got to have the ability to acknowledge

customers and get to them as fast as we can. So you've had all those learnings made. So

as long as you do that and then the bit that I would, there is the noisy minority that like to

complain. Now she's complained for for the right reasons but. Probably a bit. Harsh, when

she herself acknowledges that the store is is busy. So this is a perfect opportunity. Thank

you for thank her for her feedback, and we'll use it to to good cause. That's. That that's the

whole point. One of the things about social media today is that there, there is always many

new way till you fire somebody or you're going to get Glass house and you know those sort

that you know you. You you got. You gotta read them to. Try to find out how we can improve

and the cost versus benefit of doing so and all that, but you've just got to. Learn not to. You

got to let it go. We can't please everybody. Everybody has different opinions, etcetera. So

don't lose sleep over it because it won't. It's not going to be the first.

Cody

I know. I thought you get a kick out of that. My girlfriend was laughing at me. She's like.

Speaker 3

Yeah.

Cody

Because she she. Used to work in a restaurant. She was a server. You know, she

remembers the first time she had a customer get ****** *** about something and you one

star with you and yell.

Speaker

Yeah.

Brett

And the point?

Speaker

Was that it happened to?

Cody

Me before. I can't believe it.

Brett

Yeah. And and Cody, it's your character, you the last thing you want to do is let anybody

down. Yeah. And you, it's you take it personally that and that's good and it's back, you

know, all great strengths of great weakness is at a different stage. And I I want to share with

your story, right. That. Is incredible to me. And I still have those pangs. This was just literally

3 or 4 weeks ago. I'm doing store visits with Daniel Goss and ally of Accent, so remember

this is 450 stores and. $100 million profit, business, etc. Now and he's a he's. A giant and.

We're we're doing stores together now. Fortunately this was in Sydney CBD and we can do

10 stores within you know walking. A square mile. So we we get a lot of stores in. One of my

things. Which I think. I try to encourage everybody to do, you gotta acknowledge every

store, team member in the store. So and it gets a bit monotonous when you're doing 10

stores within literally a few hours, and there's a lot of people in the stores, you gotta make

sure I find them, say hello to them, they're in the back rooms, in the store rooms, they're

with customers. So before we when I was sure to walk in, you've got to acknowledge

everybody because they know you're in the store. They you know, you can't ignore. So you

go up and say a quick hi, you know, hi, shake their hand is essentially the thing. How are

you and I will interrupt customs. Who are in the process of then I will. Go I'll say to.

Customer with excuse me, just a moment. I just put my. Hand out and say hi. To the team

members. So this is two of three Saturdays are going.

Speaker

Whatever it was.

Brett

Then I'll go out into the backroom. Footwear, backrooms are very big, full of stock and