SOURCE: 1. HBR_Digital Physical Mash Up.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Uncategorized
SUMMARY: Could not generate summary
KEYWORDS: 
---

of its chief competitors, according to the New York mobile activities, Harrison assumed responsibility

Times. Online sales account for only about 2.5% for systems and technology, logistics, and related

of total sales, which have declined steadily since operating functions.

8 Harvard Business Review September 2014

This document is authorized for use only by CHRIS PARKER (CHRISPARKER@WOOLWORTHS.COM.AU). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

FOR ARTICLE REPRINTS CALL 800-988-0886 OR 617-783-7500, OR VISIT HBR.ORG

Digical’s Growing Momentum

“Digical” (combined digital and physical) innovations will hit some

businesses much harder and faster than others, so a key first

step is to assess your company’s environment. How much has the

Macy’s digical fusion has been great for its finan- ongoing transformation already changed your industry’s offerings

cial performance. Total sales have grown by $4.4 bil- and competitive dynamics? How much is it likely to do so in the

lion (19%) over the past four years, and the company

next several years? The figure below captures Bain’s assessment

recently reported a fifth consecutive year of double-

of digical transformation for 20 industries. You can see at a glance

digit earnings growth. Its stock rose steadily from

some of the key findings:

2010 to 2013, increasing by 43% in 2013 alone (com-

pared with a gain in the S&P 500 of about 30%).

The range of impact is wide. Change has been several times as extensive in

media, technology, and telecom as in oil and gas, mining, and construction.

Rule #5

The biggest change is yet to come. The next several years will bring far

Build a digical-savvy leadership more innovation to most industries than they have seen in the past. Airlines,

team that includes the CEO. automobiles, and insurance, for instance, are on the verge of far-reaching

If digital technologies are expected to supplant the digical transformations.

core business, the CEO’s primary task is to change the

Wild cards can affect the pace of change. Some industries will be held back

mix of businesses, not the fundamental capabilities

by external factors. Medical technology and health care, in particular, won’t

of people within them. This kind of corporate evo-

evolve as quickly as they otherwise might, owing to regulations, reimbursement

lution is much like biological evolution: Individual

practices, and liability issues.

organisms don’t change, but the population evolves

as superior species destroy less adaptable ones. The

CEO encourages the physical business to keep up the SLOW FAST

good fight and siphons money to the new ventures

on which the company’s hopes are pinned. MEDIA

CEOs who lead digical transformations face a

TECHNOLOGY

more complex task. They must change not only the

mix of businesses but also the capabilities of people TELECOM

in and around those businesses—including them- RETAIL

BANKING

selves, their board members, their executive teams,

and the operating organization. Appointing a chief RETAIL

information or technology or digital officer (titles

AIRLINES

vary, but it’s a common solution) may be helpful but

isn’t sufficient. And it will be harmful if it creates the AUTO POTENTIAL

CHANGE

illusion that the new executive will handle digital ca- INSURANCE

pabilities and no one else need get involved.

HOTELS &

Typically, digitally challenged CEOs are unaware RESTAURANTS

of the extent of their ignorance and have a hard time EDUCATION

hiring tech-savvy people. They also have a tendency MEDICAL

to starve digital investments, encourage bad ideas, TECHNOLOGY

TRANSPORTATION

and kill good ones (or at least demand multiple & LOGISTICS

rounds of improvements). But a growing number HEALTH CARE

PAYERS & PROVIDERS

of CEOs are strengthening their grasp of the issues.

CONSUMER

They join the boards of digitally advanced companies. PRODUCTS

They spend more time with technology experts— MANUFACTURING

venture capitalists, high-tech start-up teams, profes-

PHARMA

sionals in their own organizations. They read about CHANGE

digital topics, take online courses, acquire mentors, UTILITIES THROUGH

2020

and play with the technologies their customers

OIL & GAS

use. They also invite technology leaders onto their

boards and launch “no executive left behind” pro- MINING

grams to ensure that every leader in the organization

CONSTRUCTION

TODAY

accelerates his or her digital training. CEOs needn’t

learn to write code, but they should understand why SOURCE BAIN

September 2014 Harvard Business Review 9

This document is authorized for use only by CHRIS PARKER (CHRISPARKER@WOOLWORTHS.COM.AU). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

DIGITAL-PHYSICAL MASHUPS

technology is important and how it can transform shortly before she left, Burberry’s stock more than

businesses and functions in the company portfolio. tripled, while the FTSE 100 index rose roughly 19%.

The remarkable makeover of Burberry, the august

UK-based clothing company, demonstrates some of The Digical Future

the possibilities. (See “Burberry’s CEO on Turning an Digical innovations are propelling leading com-

Aging British Icon into a Global Luxury Brand,” HBR panies in a growing range of businesses. The Ford

January–February 2013.) When Angela Ahrendts took Fiesta outsells competitors partly because of the

over Burberry’s top job, in 2006, the brand had begun company’s pioneering Ford Sync technology; more

to turn itself around but was struggling to catch on than half of Fiesta buyers say Ford Sync was a major

among younger shoppers. Ahrendts brought a new reason for their purchase decision. Delta Air Lines

vision. She believed that Burberry should explicitly was bankrupt in 2005 and rated last on Fortune’s list

target previously neglected customers—millen- of most admired airlines in 2007, yet it is highly prof-

nials—and speak to them in their mother tongue: itable and number one on the magazine’s list today.

digital. She hired a fresh marketing team, most of its Among the many reasons for this improvement may

be Delta’s sizable investments in digitally augment-

ANDY DUNN, THE CEO OF BONOBOS,

ing the physical aspects of flight. Its Fly Delta app,

SAYS, “WE WERE WRONG AT THE for example, not only provides information about

flight itineraries, airplanes, and airports, but also

BEGINNING. IN 2007 WE SAID,