SOURCE: 1. HBR_Digital Physical Mash Up.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Digital-Physical Integration
SUMMARY: Disney's billion-dollar investment in a new entrepreneurial unit, Next Generation Experience, to integrate digital and physical experiences for customers.
KEYWORDS: digital-physical integration, customer experience, organizational transformation, innovation, Disney
---

tomer touchpoint. Disney decided that the $1 billion-

plus vision was so much bigger than anything its cel-

ebrated Imagineering team of designers and product

developers had ever undertaken that it required a

new kind of organization. It set up an entrepreneur-

ial unit dubbed Next Generation Experience, which

ultimately employed more than 1,000 people from incremental revenue with a 20% operating margin.

across the company’s functions. If those numbers hold up, it will earn a healthy re-

Next Generation’s leaders engaged experts from turn on its billion-dollar investment.

IT, Imagineering, theme park operations, market-

ing, and other functional areas. Their first release, Rule #4

the MyMagic+ system, combines digital technol-

ogy with the three-dimensional theme park: My Organizational separation

Disney Experience, a new website and mobile app, is just an interim step.

facilitates vacation planning and collects informa- The choice between digital disruption and digi-

tion about personal preferences; FastPass+ lets cal transformation has dramatic implications for a

guests reserve attraction and character-greeting company’s operating model and organizational de-

times and seats for shows; and MagicBands (RFID sign. But those implications may not be apparent at

wristbands) act as tickets, room keys, FastPass+ first, because in either case successful innovators

verifications, and credit cards, allowing guests to typically start by separating their digital revolution-

charge meals or souvenirs with a flick of the wrist. aries from the core business. Separation enables

The bands also interact with sensors in the park these companies to attract talented innovators

and transmit behavioral information that enables and programmers, locating them in San Francisco,

Disney to enhance the guest experience still further. Cambridge, Tel Aviv, Hyderabad, or anywhere else

Future applications may include the personaliza- they want to be. A specialized capability—one un-

tion of rides and attractions—for example, Winnie impeded by corporate bureaucracy and uncontami-

the Pooh might greet a child by name and wish him nated by old-style thinking—can be built quickly. An

a happy birthday. Thanks to the initiative, Disney upstart culture can challenge the status quo and seek

is on target to realize some $500 million in annual to develop radical innovations. Compensation plans

September 2014 Harvard Business Review 7

This document is authorized for use only by CHRIS PARKER (CHRISPARKER@WOOLWORTHS.COM.AU). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

DIGITAL-PHYSICAL MASHUPS

2007; e-commerce revenue can’t possibly grow fast

enough to replace lost revenue from the stores.

Digital-physical transformations have different

objectives and thus different operating models. The

initial aim is to acquire digital skills as strong as those

of any pure play disrupter. But the ultimate goal is

to create the best of both worlds, developing capa-

bilities that pure plays will be unable or unwilling to

copy. So separation is a transitional step; over time

the company will want to build at least some inte-

gration, which has advantages of its own: It satisfies

customers’ wish for a seamless digital-physical ex-

perience, enables greater efficiency and economies

of scale, and permits better coordination, avoiding

duplicated effort. It also facilitates timely commu-

nication and execution of decisions, thus reducing

conflict. An integrated business can leverage existing

company assets in ways that a separate unit cannot.

This kind of fusion is working well for Macy’s. As

early as 2005 the company was devoting consider-

able resources to website and infrastructure capac-

ity, and in 2010 it mapped out an “omnichannel”

strategy—a long-term plan that included a host of

initiatives designed to create seamless customer

experiences both online and in stores. Finding that

customers who used both channels to shop were five

times as profitable as those who shopped online only,

and incentives can be tailored to the needs of the Macy’s invested heavily in its iconic Herald Square

new rather than to the requirements of the old. store in New York City and hundreds of others as well

But at some point these companies must make a and began integrating them with its online business.

decision. If they are facing digital disruption, they’ll It has turned virtually all of them into omnichannel

leave the businesses separate for a long time—maybe fulfillment centers: Customers can order online and

forever. The core, after all, is a rival to be milked pick up their items at a local store. The Herald Square

and ultimately destroyed. The businesses compete store is undergoing a $400 million renovation and

for market share, management attention, and fi- will feature interactive directories, the widespread

nancial resources in a battle to the death. Only one use of RFID tagging to track individual items, and a

will be left standing. That may be the model Sears mobile app to guide customers as they shop. Sales

chose. Under CEO Edward S. Lampert, Sears has associates equipped with mobile devices will be able

invested heavily in its wholly separate e-commerce to summon shoes from the back room without ever

business; one Credit Suisse analyst has said, “[Its] leaving the customer.

website is better than [that of] just about any other Organizational changes reflect Macy’s growing

retailer I cover.” Online sales have grown steadily, integration. In January 2013, for example, Robert B.

and by late 2013 they were about $1.2 billion a year, Harrison, previously the executive vice president

according to analysts. But the company’s under- for omnichannel strategy, became the first chief om-

investment in brick-and-mortar has been signifi- nichannel officer, reporting to CEO Terry Lundgren.

cant. In 2012, for instance, Sears spent an average of He also joined the company’s executive commit-

$1.46 per square foot on its stores, compared with tee. As he continued to manage the development

the average of $9.45 per square foot spent by four of strategies to closely integrate stores, online, and

of its chief competitors, according to the New York mobile activities, Harrison assumed responsibility

Times. Online sales account for only about 2.5% for systems and technology, logistics, and related

of total sales, which have declined steadily since operating functions.

8 Harvard Business Review September 2014