SOURCE: 1. HBR_Digital Physical Mash Up.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Digital Transformation in Physical Businesses
SUMMARY: The text explores how digital technologies are transforming physical businesses, rather than replacing them, as seen in the examples of Burberry, E*Trade, TD Ameritrade, and Bonobos.
KEYWORDS: digital-physical fusion, omnichannel strategy, customer experience, retail innovation, business transformation
---

be Delta’s sizable investments in digitally augment-

ANDY DUNN, THE CEO OF BONOBOS,

ing the physical aspects of flight. Its Fly Delta app,

SAYS, “WE WERE WRONG AT THE for example, not only provides information about

flight itineraries, airplanes, and airports, but also

BEGINNING. IN 2007 WE SAID,

lets passengers record their parking spots, check in,

‘THE WHOLE WORLD IS GOING ONLINE change seats, retrieve boarding passes, pay for ex-

cess baggage, track checked luggage, and view the

ONLY. ALL WE’RE GOING TO

ground under the plane (with Glass Bottom Jet). The

DO IS BE ONLINE.’ BUT WHAT immensely popular app had been downloaded an

estimated 11 million times as of April 2014.

WE’VE LEARNED RECENTLY IS THAT

Perhaps the surest sign that digital technologies

THE OFFLINE EXPERIENCE are transforming physical businesses rather than

annihilating them is the growing number of digi-

OF TOUCHING AND FEELING

tal companies that are themselves moving toward

CLOTHES ISN’T GOING AWAY.” digital-physical fusions. Two early pioneers of on-

line trading—E*Trade and TD Ameritrade—have in-

vested in physical branches. Google, which started

members under 25, and launched innovations such life as purely a digital search engine, is now produc-

as the hugely popular Tweetwalk, which showed ing smartphones and tablets and smart glasses; it has

backstage pictures of Burberry’s collections before also been building driverless cars, acquiring robotics

the runway show. She also created a new partnership companies, laying physical fiber, creating delivery

at the top, including herself; the chief creative officer, services, and moving into connected devices within

Christopher Bailey; and the chief technology officer, the home. Digital retailers such as Warby Parker and

John Douglas. She established a “strategic innova- Bonobos are launching physical stores. Andy Dunn,

tion council” and staffed it with what she viewed as the CEO of Bonobos, says, “We were wrong at the

the youngest and most forward-thinking directors beginning. In 2007 we started the company, and we

in the company. The council developed digitally im- said, ‘The whole world is going online only. All we’re

mersive physical experiences—live streaming of run- going to do is be online.’ But what we’ve learned re-

way shows, video content on giant screens, digital cently is that the offline experience of touching and

mirrors that turned into screens displaying catwalk feeling clothes isn’t going away.”

scenes—that made store customers feel like they A digical lens will change how people perceive

were stepping into a digical “Burberry World.” Store and manage nearly every activity in life and business.

merchandise carried RFID tags, so a customer pick- Try using it. Pick apart your customers’ experience

ing up an item could instantly see product informa- chain to understand how digital technologies apply.

tion and marketing materials on a screen. This digical Combining the physical and the digital promises to

strategy contributed to a significant increase in share transform nearly every element of nearly every in-

price: From the time Ahrendts arrived to early 2014, dustry, including yours. HBR Reprint R1409F

10 Harvard Business Review September 2014

This document is authorized for use only by CHRIS PARKER (CHRISPARKER@WOOLWORTHS.COM.AU). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.