SOURCE: 1. HBR_Digital Physical Mash Up.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Digital Business Transformation
SUMMARY: To survive in the digital age, companies must integrate their physical and digital offerings to meet consumer demand for a seamless experience across both worlds.
KEYWORDS: digital-physical integration, customer experience, business transformation, disruptive innovation, omnichannel strategy
---

SEPTEMBER 2014

HBR.ORG

REPRINT R1409F

Digital-Physical

Mashups

To consumers, the real and virtual worlds are one.

The same should go for your company.

by Darrell K. Rigby

This document is authorized for use only by CHRIS PARKER (CHRISPARKER@WOOLWORTHS.COM.AU). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Darrell K. Rigby is a

partner in the Boston

office of Bain & Company

and heads the firm’s

global retail practice. He

is the author of Winning

in Turbulence (Harvard

Business Review Press,

2009), among other books.

digital-physical

mashups

TO CONSUMERS, THE REAL AND VIRTUAL WORLDS ARE ONE.

THE SAME SHOULD GO FOR YOUR COMPANY. BY DARRELL K. RIGBY

IN

the early days of the digital revolution, many lead- technologies. The failure of the second may be less

ers of established companies did their best to ignore obvious but is now well documented. Companies

the upheaval, convinced that the threat from new that milked existing businesses while betting on in-

technologies wouldn’t ever amount to much. As dependent digital start-ups that had no competitive

that premise faltered, many flipped in their thinking, advantages usually wound up discarding decades’

concluding that digital would inexorably destroy worth of physical assets and gambling away mil-

their positions. To survive, it seemed, they’d have to lions in real value. Sears Holdings may be the poster

stop throwing money at the old businesses, salvage child for this kind of miscalculation: Underinvesting

what they could, and launch independent digital in its stores while pouring resources into online

ventures. The existing units probably wouldn’t sur- ventures, it has suffered a 75% decline in stock price

vive, but disruptive digital businesses could replace over the past seven years. Similar examples crop up

the zombies in a company’s portfolio. in many industries.

Both views proved misguided. The failure of The central problem with either extreme is that

the first hardly needs elaboration: No company it fails to account for how customers have changed:

can safely ignore the changes wrought by digital They now weave their digital and physical worlds so

2 Harvard Business Review September 2014 COPYRIGHT © 2014 HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL PUBLISHING CORPORATION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

This document is authorized for use only by CHRIS PARKER (CHRISPARKER@WOOLWORTHS.COM.AU). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

IAYNAB

NAVTSI

:NOITARTSULLI

FOR ARTICLE REPRINTS CALL 800-988-0886 OR 617-783-7500, OR VISIT HBR.ORG

This document is authorized for use only by CHRIS PARKER (CHRISPARKER@WOOLWORTHS.COM.AU). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

EMAN

:YHPARGOTOHP/NOITARTSULLI

DIGITAL-PHYSICAL MASHUPS

tightly together that they can’t fathom why compa- “digical” fusions ultimately prove to be 10- to 20-year

nies haven’t done the same. Let me relate a personal transitions toward further disruption, aren’t they still

anecdote that illustrates the problem. the best way to extend your core business, generate

Last December my daughter Stacy wanted to buy cash to fund continued evolution, and build the capa-

the Just Dance 4 video game for her little girl. She bilities that will be essential for future success?

found it on a major retailer’s website for $29.97. To My colleagues and I have studied more than 300

be on the safe side—Christmas was approaching— companies around the globe and have worked di-

she decided to go to the retailer’s local store and pick rectly with hundreds more that are trying to cope

it up. There, however, it was selling for $47.97, a 60% with the dazzling but daunting changes reshaping

markup. She was surprised, but she remembered the the marketplace. We’ve found that most indus-

company’s price-matching guarantee, so she asked tries are still in the early stages of digital-physical

for the online price. No dice, said the cashier—the transformation (see the exhibit “Digical’s Growing

guarantee applied only to competitors’ prices. Momentum”). We’ve also found that the greatest

barrier to adopting fusion strategies is not skepti-

THE GREATEST BARRIER TO

cism about their promise but inexperience with their

ADOPTING FUSION STRATEGIES execution. Executives are intrigued by the possibili-

ties and recognize their potential but are uncertain

IS NOT SKEPTICISM ABOUT

how to make them work.

THEIR PROMISE BUT INEXPERIENCE Not surprisingly, best practices in this area are still

emerging. But drawing on our study of leaders from

WITH THEIR EXECUTION.

20 global industries, we have identified five rules that

account for much of the difference between success

and failure. Some of them are common sense but not

“Wait,” Stacy said. “I can buy this game online and commonly practiced. Others may sound heretical, at

have it shipped to the store free, right?” The cashier least to the proponents of digital disruption. But the

agreed, but cautioned that it might take several days. leaders we studied uncovered big growth opportuni-

My daughter replied, “But it’s on your shelf now. ties while rivals stood by wringing their hands. So it’s

Can’t I just pay for it online and take one from the worth examining what they did and how.

shelf?” Of course not, was the response; the store

and the online operation were separate businesses, Rule #1

and that would mess things up. Standing at the reg-

ister, Stacy ordered the item on her phone, and a few Build your strategy around digital-

days later she came back to collect it—another exas- physical fusion. It can be your new

perating process. competitive edge.

People experience disconnects like this one all Some of the world’s leading strategy experts have

the time. Here we are, a quarter century into the pronounced sustainable competitive advantage

digital revolution, yet many companies still ago- dead. They explain that technology now changes so

nize over whether to invest significant resources in rapidly, and advantages are copied so quickly, that

digital capabilities. Those that have done so tend to companies must learn to leap continually from one

run their digital operations as independent business wave of opportunity to the next—even though each