SOURCE: 1. HBR_Digital Physical Mash Up.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Digital Transformation
SUMMARY: Companies must fuse their digital and physical operations to create seamless customer experiences and leverage existing strengths to gain a competitive edge.
KEYWORDS: digital transformation, physical-digital integration, customer experience, competitive advantage, core business strengths
---

nize over whether to invest significant resources in rapidly, and advantages are copied so quickly, that

digital capabilities. Those that have done so tend to companies must learn to leap continually from one

run their digital operations as independent business wave of opportunity to the next—even though each

units—the way companies prefer to manage them, new wave will probably be shorter, more crowded,

as opposed to the way customers expect to use them. and less connected to the one before. The problem

As the revolution progresses, some companies with this approach is that a company may end up

will go the way of Tower Records, their businesses throwing away core advantages while pouring re-

thoroughly disrupted and destroyed by digital alter- sources into risky ventures that have no competitive

natives. But most will find that they must fuse the edge or right to win. To beat the odds, you have to

digital and physical worlds, just as consumers are either be very lucky or find some advantage that your

doing. Look at your own business: Is the physical core business can provide to the new venture and

part of it really going to disappear? Wouldn’t innova- vice versa. These advantages may include propri-

tions that fuse the digital and the physical open up etary customer insights, distinctive capabilities, and

vast new opportunities? And even if some of these ways to capitalize on a competitor’s vulnerabilities.

4 Harvard Business Review September 2014

This document is authorized for use only by CHRIS PARKER (CHRISPARKER@WOOLWORTHS.COM.AU). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

FOR ARTICLE REPRINTS CALL 800-988-0886 OR 617-783-7500, OR VISIT HBR.ORG

Idea in Brief

THE PROBLEM THE ANALYSIS THE GUIDANCE

Too many companies run Proponents of digital A study of global industry

their physical and digital disruption contend that leaders reveals five

operations independently, brick-and-mortar operations practices that lead to

creating disconnects that are dinosaurs. But most growth. They will help you

annoy customers. companies will find that reconceive your business

they need to fuse the digital and create a sustainable

and physical experiences competitive advantage.

to allow customers to move

easily between the two.

Digical fusions can leverage a company’s exist- a “core banking modernization” program budgeted

ing strengths to provide just such an edge. Consider at A$580 million over four years (and later expanded

the case of Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA), to A$1.1 billion over six years). He simultaneously

which started life in 1911 and today operates with launched a program to revamp the branch network

52,000 employees in a dozen countries. When Ralph to improve convenience and service levels.

Norris was named CEO, in 2005, CBA had the worst These efforts produced an impressive succession

customer satisfaction ranking in the industry and of digical innovations. The project Finest Online

was losing market share in several important sectors. modernized CBA’s internet banking service and

Like other major banks, it had been trying to reduce combined it with in-person channels to eliminate

costs—and it was perhaps fearful that the internet all-too-frequent problems such as an inability to link

would make branch banking obsolete. So it had personal accounts to commercial accounts. CBA’s

reduced its branches from 1,756 in 1993 to 1,006 in mobile real estate app recognizes photos of proper-

2005. The closures not only made it easier for online ties, shows floor plans, helps customers figure out

banks to gain share but also encouraged the entry whether they can afford a given house, and starts the

and expansion of new branch-based competitors, mortgage application process. The bank’s Kaching

including AHL Investments (Aussie Home Loans) app was one of the first to allow multiple types of

and other nonbanking lenders. These aggressive ri- payment from a smartphone, including through

vals scooped up many of CBA’s old branch managers, Facebook. (The company responds in real time to

loan officers, and customers. inquiries on a Facebook wall.) CBA offers online

Norris began his tenure by touring the branches loan approval in 24 hours, as opposed to the 14 to

and studying customer complaints. He found that 21 days previously required, and in 2013 it launched

customers were criticizing virtually every touch- SmartSign, a service that allows customers to ex-

point—they spoke of lousy products, long lines, in- ecute loan documents electronically using a secure

ept employees, and high error rates. Norris, whose online portal. It also rolled out videoconferencing

background is in IT, also scrutinized the digital infra- to its branches, enabling customers—particularly

structure. He found decades-old systems that made those in rural areas—to connect more easily with the

it nearly impossible for even the best employees to bank’s specialists.

do the right thing by customers. CBA’s system is now so firmly embedded that it

Norris’s vision was to build Australia’s finest continues to gain steam even as competitors invest

financial services organization by excelling in cus- in their own systems and service improvements.

tomer service. He set a goal to rise from worst to first Its fusion-based strategy helped propel the bank to

in customer satisfaction, linked the compensation the highest customer-satisfaction ranking for retail

of all senior executives to that metric, and focused banks in 2013. CBA’s shares rose more than 80% from

on five areas for improvement: home loans, depos- mid-2006 to mid-2014, compared with a 9% gain in

its, term deposits, passbooks, and customer relation- the S&P/ASX 200 index over the same period. Most

ship systems. He also set out to develop the digital important, the technology platforms, customer-

capabilities that would make his goal possible, hiring focused culture, and rapid-fire innovation processes

and promoting top-tier IT talent that was committed that CBA developed in those eight years seem to be

to his vision. He persuaded CBA’s board to undertake taking even longer for competitors to copy.

September 2014 Harvard Business Review 5

This document is authorized for use only by CHRIS PARKER (CHRISPARKER@WOOLWORTHS.COM.AU). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact