SOURCE: 1. HBR_Digital Physical Mash Up.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Digital-Physical Integration
SUMMARY: The text discusses how Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) integrated digital and physical elements to enhance the customer experience and drive business success.
KEYWORDS: digital-physical integration, customer experience, business strategy
---

to his vision. He persuaded CBA’s board to undertake taking even longer for competitors to copy.

September 2014 Harvard Business Review 5

This document is authorized for use only by CHRIS PARKER (CHRISPARKER@WOOLWORTHS.COM.AU). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

DIGITAL-PHYSICAL MASHUPS

Rule #2 Runners could see data about their time, distance,

calories burned, and pace on the Nano’s screen or

Add links and strengthen linkages hear it through their headphones. After a workout

in the customer experience. they could sync the Nano with a computer and

Thomas Edison is thought to have invented the chart their progress. They could even get personal-

lightbulb, but his carbon-filament bulb actually just ized coaching.

improved on existing models. Edison’s real contribu- Today more than 30 million customers use Nike+,

tion was to create a system of electric-power genera- tracking and sharing runs, workouts, and fitness

tion and distribution that made lightbulbs work. He goals—and providing the company with invaluable

figured out every element of the system, set up a data about who its customers are and what they

kind of idea factory to develop innovations for each value most. Nike+ FuelBand SE electronic bracelets

one, and commercialized one after another. The re- take postsale involvement further, measuring all a

sults transformed daily life. user’s movements throughout the day and recording

indicators such as steps taken and calories burned.

COMMONWEALTH BANK OF

As with Nike+, users can capture this data, track and

AUSTRALIA’S FUSION-BASED record their level of activity, and share the informa-

tion through social media.

STRATEGY HELPED PROPEL

The results of all this innovation have been dra-

THE BANK FROM THE LOWEST matic. Nike enjoys the highest social media engage-

ment with customers in its industry. It has recorded

CUSTOMER-SATISFACTION RANKING

an increased market share in key areas (including

FOR RETAIL BANKS TO THE HIGHEST. Western Europe and soccer—both once dominated

by Adidas), a 42% increase in e-commerce sales from

ITS SHARES ROSE MORE THAN 80%

FY 2013 to FY 2014, and an overall growth rate that

FROM MID-2006 TO MID-2014. significantly outpaces that of key rivals. And it may

be just warming up. “Digital sport is incredibly im-

portant to us,” Nike’s CEO, Mark Parker, told CNBC in

Digical innovations are similar. They don’t just April 2014. “You’re going to see digital be more and

change a company’s existing products or services, as more integrated into other products that we have.”

at CBA. They allow companies to identify adjacen- Through its partnerships with Apple and others, he

cies that strengthen the base business and create said, the company hopes to expand the reach of the

new revenue streams. Like Edison, a digical-savvy NIKE Fuel system and other applications to 100 mil-

company thinks systematically about each piece lion users worldwide.

of the customer experience. It develops innovative

components and weaves them into a holistic system Rule #3

that extends competitive advantages and acceler-

ates growth. Transform the way you

Nike illustrates this approach. For many years approach innovation.

it was as firmly rooted in the physical world as any When traditional companies add digital features to

company could be, producing shoes, apparel, and innovation programs, their approach typically re-

sports equipment to be sold through retail stores. sembles a waterfall. Marketers and product design-

It put up a website in 1996 but declined to sell any ers create ideas, build prototypes, and then throw

merchandise online for three years. In 1999 things the ideas downstream to IT, with instructions to

began to change, starting with the NIKEiD program. develop specific digital features. “We’re launching a

Buyers could visit nike.com and customize certain new product and marketing campaign. We want the

Nike shoes, choosing their base and accent colors mobile app to help us push out marketing messages

and adding a “personal I.D.” to the product. Nike and coupons and to make it easier for customers to

then began introducing digical innovations at other send us e-mails when they have service questions.

points in the customer experience chain. In 2006 it The CEO says she needs it in four weeks.”

unveiled the Nike+ app, which connects a shoe that But another way to fuse the digital with the phys-

has a built-in sensor and receiver to an iPod Nano. ical is to start by creating a team of complementary

6 Harvard Business Review September 2014

This document is authorized for use only by CHRIS PARKER (CHRISPARKER@WOOLWORTHS.COM.AU). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

FOR ARTICLE REPRINTS CALL 800-988-0886 OR 617-783-7500, OR VISIT HBR.ORG

experts. Teams of this sort are not new, but digical in-

novation requires dramatically deeper and broader

integration. Leaders engage digital experts at every

stage, from idea generation to development, test-

ing, and launching, and assemble teams for every

possible type of innovation project. Their approach

generates more wide-ranging, innovative, and inte-

grated solutions, because team members’ combined

expertise can fuse the best of the digital and physical

worlds in every aspect of the project.

Disney has followed this course since the design

of Disneyland began, in 1952. But even Disney’s

prodigious digical skills were stretched when the

company launched a revolutionary project in 2009.

The goals were to create a “more immersive, more

seamless, and more personal experience” for Disney

guests and to gather real-time data on guest behav-

iors that would help the company analyze traffic pat-

terns and spending habits, manage labor efficien-

cies, and optimize the company’s future investment

spending. The project would span the entire theme

park experience and take in just about every cus-

tomer touchpoint. Disney decided that the $1 billion-

plus vision was so much bigger than anything its cel-

ebrated Imagineering team of designers and product

developers had ever undertaken that it required a

new kind of organization. It set up an entrepreneur-

ial unit dubbed Next Generation Experience, which