SOURCE: 10 Kinds of Stories to Tell with Data (2).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific\2016.03 HFT - Reporting Pitfalls - DIDNT HAPPEN
TOPIC: Information & Analytics Storytelling
SUMMARY: This text discusses different types of analytical stories that can be told with data, categorized by time (past, present, future)
KEYWORDS: data analytics, storytelling, predictive analytics, survey analysis, descriptive analytics
---

INFORMATION & TECHNOLOGY

10 Kinds of Stories to Tell with

Data

by Tom Davenport

MAY 05, 2014

For almost a decade I have heard that good quantitative analysts can “tell a story with

data.” Narrative is—along with visual analytics—an important way to communicate

analytical results to non-analytical people. Very few people would question the value of

such stories, but just knowing that they work is not much help to anyone trying to master

the art of analytical storytelling. What’s needed is a framework for understanding the

different kinds of stories that data and analytics can tell. If you don’t know what kind of

story you want to tell, you probably won’t tell a good one.

This insight came in an interview a couple of years ago with Joe Megibow, a leading

analytics practitioner who was head of web analytics at Expedia and is now Senior Vice

President of Omnichannel E-Commerce at American Eagle. We simultaneously realized

that there are several different types of analytical stories, and that it might be useful to

create a typology of them. I later created what I think is the first typology of analytical

stories in my book (with Jinho Kim) Keeping Up with the Quants and, since its publication

last year, I’ve refined the typology further. Practically speaking, there are four key

dimensions that determine the type of story you can tell with data and analytics:

Time: Analytical stories can be about the past, present, or future. The most common type

of analytical story is about the past—it’s a reporting story using descriptive analytics to tell

what happened last week, month, quarter, or year. By the way, most visual analytics

stories are also of this type. They’re not the most valuable form of story, but it’s undeniably

useful to know what happened.

Stories about the present are most likely to involve some form of survey—an analysis of

what people or objects are currently up to. It may actually involve survey research—asking

people what they think about something. In some cases survey analysis involves a

statistical model of what factors drive others. We might call those explanatory survey

stories. In general there are lots of minor variations on the survey story. In the book we talk

about social science surveys, surveys of cable TV viewers, and surveys of bombers in World

War II.

Stories about the future are predictions; they use, of course, predictive analytics. They take

data from the past (it’s hard to get data from the future!) to create a statistical model, which

is then used to predict the future. Quants create prediction stories all the time—about what

customers are likely to buy, about how likely it is for an event to happen, about future

economic conditions. These types of prediction stories always involve assumptions

(notably that the future will be like the past in some key respects) and probability. The

good news is that we can specify the likelihood that the story will be true; wouldn’t that

have been nice for fairy tales?

Focus: Are you trying to tell a what story, a why story, or a how to address the issue story? (I

am thankful to several Procter & Gamble executives for pointing this out). What stories are

like reporting stories—they simply tell what happened. Why stories go into the underlying

factors that caused the outcome. How to address the issue stories explore various ways to

improve the situation identified in the what and the why stories. A really complete story

may have all of these focus elements. P&G has made considerable progress in getting

agreement on the what story quickly, and then spending more time and energy on the why

and how topics. Key to doing that is having all parties involved in telling the story working

off the same data.

Depth: There is also a depth dimension to analytical stories. When I spoke with Joe

Megibow, then at Expedia, about this, he said that many of their stories were “CSI“

projects—relatively small, ad hoc investigations to find out why something suboptimal was

happening. One of his favorite examples involved discovering why some Irish customers

were dropping online transactions when they got to the postal code input form. It turned

out that some rural Irish locations don’t have postal codes. Just like on CSI—story solved in

a short time.

The alternative I call “Eureka“ stories, which involve long, analytically-driven searches for

a solution to a complex problem. When you solve it, you want to yell, “Eureka!” My

primary example in the book involved discovering the right way to refer and price potential

buyers to real estate agents at Zillow. The project was core to the company’s business

model and was worth a long story; after a few false starts and the use of several different

analytical methods, they got it right. These types of stories are typically long, important,

and expensive, so getting stakeholder buy-in is critical if you plan to reach the end of them.

Methods: Finally, there are different types of stories based on the analytical method used.

Are you trying to tell, for example, a correlation story—in which the relationships among

variables rose or fell at the same time—or a causation story, in which you’ll argue that one

variable caused the other? In most cases, doing some sort of controlled experiment is really

the only way to establish causation. People—particularly those in the media—tell bad

stories all the time because they confuse causation with correlation.

These ten kinds of stories are not mutually exclusive. There are certainly other method-

based stories, and probably other important dimensions as well. But knowing that there

are at least ten ways to tell analytical stories is much more useful than knowing only that

you should tell one. There are other important aspects of analytical storytelling as well,

such as that the story told to businesspeople should generally begin with the result and

recommended outcome. You can save the details of how you got there analytically for the