SOURCE: 10 Kinds of Stories to Tell with Data (2).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific\2016.03 HFT - Reporting Pitfalls - DIDNT HAPPEN
TOPIC: Data Storytelling
SUMMARY: Analytical storytelling for business should focus on the result and recommended outcome, avoiding technical terms.
KEYWORDS: data storytelling, analytical storytelling, business communication, data visualization, storytelling craft
---

you should tell one. There are other important aspects of analytical storytelling as well,

such as that the story told to businesspeople should generally begin with the result and

recommended outcome. You can save the details of how you got there analytically for the

footnote of your report or presentation. And terms like R2, coefficient, logistic, and

heteroskedasticity should not be appearing in your public story at all!

Thomas H. Davenport is the President’s Distinguished Professor of IT and Management at Babson College, a

research fellow at the MIT Center for Digital Business, co-founder of the International Institute for Analytics, and

a Senior Advisor to Deloitte Analytics. He is author of the new book Big Data at Work and the best-selling

Competing on Analytics.

This article is about INFORMATION & TECHNOLOGY

 FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

Related Topics: LEADERSHIP | PRESENTATIONS

Comments

Leave a Comment

POST

9 COMMENTS

nraden a year ago

Good way to look at types of stories. However, stories don't get told without skill in storytelling.

Before humans knew how to write, probably before they even had language, the means for passing wisdom

from one person or one generation to the next was storytelling. Most likely our brains are wired to respond

to and retain stories (though, oddly, not necessarily proficient at telling them). Nevertheless, it remains

perhaps our most powerful tool of communication. To put it bluntly, people are generally more interested

in a story than in the storyteller. If you want to get your point across, you need to learn how to condense

the data into a good story.

Analytical tools offer no real assistance here. Storytelling is a craft that has to be learned, I've seen the

word "storytelling" used a lot lately in analytical circles, but I'm afraid there is a lot of learning that is

needed.

REPLY 2  0 

 JOIN THE CONVERSATION

POSTING GUIDELINES

We hope the conversations that take place on HBR.org will be energetic, constructive, and thought-provoking. To comment, readers must

sign in or register. And to ensure the quality of the discussion, our moderating team will review all comments and may edit them for clarity,

length, and relevance. Comments that are overly promotional, mean-spirited, or off-topic may be deleted per the moderators' judgment.

All postings become the property of Harvard Business Publishing.