SOURCE: 10 Ways to Increase Employee Productivity.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses best practices for managing and disciplining employees, including the importance of fair and documented termination procedures.
KEYWORDS: employee discipline, termination procedures, employee management
---

you just want to send the guy packing. But it’s extremely

important, both from a legal and an ethical standpoint, to

show your staff that no one gets terminated without just

cause, fair warning, meticulous documentation, and every

chance to improve.

Fortunately, the process is set in motion the moment

someone is strong enough to enforce policies and lead a

disciplined, dedicated, above-board staff.

It didn’t take long before the top book's policy viola-

tions did him in. It was the typical career adjustment trilogy:

verbal warning, written warning, termination. So though

there were countless offenses-the worst of which were only

discovered after his termination—Mr. Top Book’s demise as

an employee was a result of simple policy violations.

The aftermath? A collective sigh of relief and a staff

that’s no longer controlled by a sales leader who oppressed

his co-workers. There’s new vitality on that selling floor,

and sales have not suffered. The former manager? He’s

taking the high road to success and he'd like to earn his

job back.

The lesson in all this is that the value of a salesperson

and their influence on your business cannot be measured

by sales alone. Poor performance is never acceptable, but

neither is unethical superb performance. If a salesperson is

depleting your other human resources to maintain the upper

hand, they’re ultimately robbing you and the rest of your

staff, in spite of their impressive sales figures.

There are plenty of supers'

sales while maintaining high ethical standards. Those are

the ones that truly help a retail organization to flourish.

Those are the salespeople who are tops in my book.

ary J. Friedman

a

Presi t

beaten by him. Note that this wasn’t

‘ar salespeople who earn their

JAYS To INCREASE

EMPLOYEE Probuctivity

Track and post sales statistics by

individual

Run sales-related games and contests

frequently

Routinely hold store meetings devoted to

selling skills and product knowledge

Observe salespeople on the floor serving

customers, and provide individual coach-

ing based upon their particular needs

Never let superior performance go unac-

knowledged. Offer enthusiastic praise as

often as it is earned

Institute a frequent flyer-like program for

your salespeople, allowing them to

achieve special status/rewards as they

reach various levels of sales productivity

Analyze your business for potential obsta-

cles to selling, such as outdated policies

or operational bottle-necks, and remove

as many of those obstacles as possible

Provide formal, thorough sales training—

not just operations training i

Set up a “Staff Favorites” area, and

allow each salesperson to choose a

product they like and write up a brief

endorsement

Get salespeople involved in the develop-

ment/conception of special events and

promotions. It then becomes their event

Or promotion, not just the store’s event

ON THE FLOOR/ISSUE 2/1999 PAGE 7