SOURCE: 1409 Time Management articles_pre reading.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Time Management for Finance Professionals
SUMMARY: This article discusses common time wasters and provides time management tips to help finance professionals become more productive and secure quality time away from work.
KEYWORDS: time management, finance professionals, productivity, time-wasters, prioritization
---

Time Management Tips For Financial Professionals

By Marv Dumon AAA

Related Searches: Thomas Edison Inventions, Famous Inventors, Thomas Edison Biography, Presidents, Industrial Revolution

The world of finance has evolved into a highly competitive workplace. And although each professional is allocated 24 hours in any

single day, as the saying goes, time is money; therefore, time management is a competitive advantage for any finance professional

looking to become more productive and secure added quality time away from work. However, as any professional can attest,

there are many distractions that can keep you at work longer than necessary. Read on to learn more about common time wasters

and discover some time-management tips that will have you getting more work done in less time.

SEE: Financial Efficiency: The Analyst's Guide To Time Management

The Black Hole

There are various time-wasters that can suck down productivity. For instance, finance professionals are perpetually tempted to

multitask, Suppose that you're an advisor, and between 8:30 and 10am on a Wednesday morning, you manage to accomplish the

following:

* You work on a spreadsheet,

* Then stop after being interrupted by two new messages in your inbox,

* Then send off six emails in a row,

* Then check a college friend's wedding pictures on Facebook,

¢ Then accept a company social outing invitation via instant messenger,

* Then field two unexpected calls from prospective clients and

¢ Then - without securing deadlines on the next steps - hang up early as the director stops by your office to remind you that

you are five minutes late for the staff meeting.

Does this sound like a typical morning for you? If so, and particularly if you work in a cutthroat corporate environment, a private

equity firm or investment bank, you are probably in the lowest-performing tier as compared to your peers. Five or 10 years from

now, no one will remember, care about or promote you for all the busywork that you have accomplished. Would the world have

cared if Thomas Jefferson finished a lot of paper-shuffling but never wrote the Declaration of Independence? The same is true in

your job - your organization values necessary work and masterpieces, not busywork.

Planning

Each Sunday afternoon, finish your week's "To Do" list, preferably on a Word or Excel document, as your Outlook calendar will

eventually fill up as the week progresses (thus diminishing the value of your earlier planning). Highlight the items that are absolutely

critical to your success at work and in your personal life. The ones not highlighted are probably things that you can delegate, delay

or avoid altogether.

In finance, critical deliverables include reports or research that needs to be accurate and submitted before a deadline. Your

organization is served better if you focus on improving the quality of these reports, as opposed to merely doing a decent job on

them so you can free up time for non-key items (like answering low-priority emails or taking part in a long-winded meeting).

Similarly, 10 minutes before leaving work at the end of each weekday, finish listing the next day's action items and number them in

order of importance and priority. Again, continually ask yourself all the things that you do not really need to do - the things that do

not meet a certain productivity threshold.

SEE: Find Your Niche In The Financial Industry

Multitasking

Success in finance boils down to one's ability to always deliver on critical and immediate deliverables. What are the crucial

information and data points your finance managers are relying on? What can you deliver in order to help your organization and/or

your clients win? Does it involve the timely submission of an audit report, accurate calculations of net present value on a proposed

project or ensuring that the formulas on Excel lead to proper aggregate totals?

At the end of the day, no one cares about all of the emails that you exchanged, the social club meetings you attended or the

chronological filing of folders in your cabinet. Multitasking constantly prevents individuals from giving their best on the few critical

aiShe PSS SA ke Wa kn Be RNa BES wise

Do the important, difficult, urgent and highest-value action items first. Success in finance

can involve simplicity in methods on how you approach your tasks. This may seem

brutally simple for the well-read and uninitiated recent graduate, but do one thing at a

time and do not stop until it has been completed. If your tasks relate to a long-term

project, chop it up into shorter-term milestones and finish ahead of time. As Henry Ford

said, "Nothing is particularly hard if you divide it into smail jobs." Doing things from start

to finish eliminates costly inefficiencies because you'll avoid having to constantly start

over and recalibrate on different, unrelated items.

If you spend three hours each week on useless tasks, this adds up to 150 hours per year.

Your finance associate a few cubicles from you, who is more efficient and puts in 150

hours more per year is likely to enjoy a few promotions and salary increases that others

did not get.

SEE: Top 4 Most Competitive Financial Careers and Financial Career Options For Professionals

Inbox

Your inbox is a major time waster. Approximately half of all email users check their personal mail sporadically during the workday,

according to marketing company EmailLabs. If a majority of your emails are irrelevant to your immediate tasks at hand, then you

are sporadically filling your day with garbage information. To avoid this:

¢ Set predetermined times for checking your email, and check your inbox no more than three or four times per day.

¢ Create an after-hours folder for e-mails that you should get to, but that aren't urgent. This folder is particularly helpful for you

to get back to important requests that can wait for a few business days prior to getting a response from you.