SOURCE: 1409 Time Management articles_pre reading.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Time Management Strategies
SUMMARY: This text provides practical tips for managing email, processing documents, and delegating tasks to improve time efficiency.
KEYWORDS: email management, document processing, task delegation, time-saving techniques, productivity
---

¢ Create an after-hours folder for e-mails that you should get to, but that aren't urgent. This folder is particularly helpful for you

to get back to important requests that can wait for a few business days prior to getting a response from you.

* Send only the most critical emails during your workday. While it is important to be abreast of worthy updates within your

group, a major chunk of your time can be wasted by inexperienced or less disciplined colleagues who flood your inbox with

irrelevant messages. You can reduce these types of emails by not responding to those that aren't work-related.

¢ Empty your inbox before you leave work. You can accomplish this by creating project-related folders in which you can park

emails related to specific problems. Keeping your inbox empty saves you time by eliminating non-core messages from your

attention. If there are items that absolutely require attention within the next few hours or by the next day, then place them in

an urgent folder,

Other Time-Saving Tips

Keep Track of How Much Time You Really Waste

Create a simple spreadsheet that allows you to enter the estimated time that you have wasted on trivial matters. Do this on a daily

basis. As you develop and maintain this habit, you will be training yourself to recognize unimportant matters as you encounter

them.

Only Process Paper Documents Once

Once they are processed, you can file them, submit them or get rid of them.

Instant Message Your Colleagues

Walking around your office or between departments can cost you a few hours per week - and we know how costly that is on an

annualized basis. Unless it is an important or complicated matter, using instant messaging is often a more efficient way to quickly

get answers to a variety of queries.

Know Where Everything Is at Any Given Time

This includes both electronic and paper information. If you value your time, don't waste it searching for things.

Separate Your Tasks into Four Categories:

1. Urgent and Important

Such as financial and accounting reports with strict and approaching deadlines.

2. Not Urgent and Important

Such as networking within your finance group, training classes, etc.

3. Urgent and Not Important

4. Not Urgent and Not Important

Such as 10-minute conversations by the water jug, fantasy football, etc.

(Obviously, you should spend as much of your day as possible on category No. 1.)

Delegate, Delegate, Delegate

This is what will separate you from the pack as you move up in the organization. Handle tasks that only you can execute, As you

hone your time-management skills, you will soon have direct reports assigned to you. Assign out tasks that you do not need to

handle yourself as much as possible. You should only do the things that absolutely require your attention or expertise.

Totally free: learn a trading technique usable with most any stock you want to trade

Don't Manage out Your Personality

Finance professionals should possess time management skills, but they should also have rapport and goodwill with internal

colleagues and the external community. Focusing exclusively on time can make you appear abrasive, which will put off a lot of

people when they are around you, including in social and business development settings. If you're not careful, you'll go around

thinking that you're the time management guru, but you'll be totally unaware of the "social idiot" stamp on your forehead.

Communication, leadership and business development skills are just as important as time management skills. As finance

professionals move up in their careers, time management skills alone will no longer be sufficient in helping them to reach the next

level (i.e., the executive level),

Parting Thoughts

If you value your life, then you value your time. Work life is a subcomponent of the larger picture of your life; the level of

contribution and service that you can provide to others depends on your ability to make the most of the finite amount of time

allocated to you. Remember: It is the important things that your employer expects you to deliver on that count. Your employer

won't care about everything else, and neither should you.

Trade Like a Top Hedge Fund

What can technical traders see that you don’t? Investopedia presents Five Chart Patterns You Need to Know your guide to

technical trading like the pros. Click here to get started, and learn how to read charts like an industry veteran.

Financial Efficiency: The Analyst's Guide To Time Management

By Glenn Curtis AAA

Related Searches: Business Relations Definition, Relationship between Government and Business, Developing Business

Relationships, Chinese Business Customs, Business Etiquette China

The average advisor's day is jam packed with a litany of tasks including servicing client accounts, attending sales meetings, tracking

the stock market and calling on sales leads. While these financial professionals are often well compensated for taking on this hectic

lifestyle, the long hours and volume of duties are also a major reason why the burnout rate in the financial industry is so high. (For

related reading, see Finding Your Place In The Financial Industry.)

TUTORIAL: Fundamental Analysis

To be clear, there's nothing that an advisor can do to eliminate these duties. In fact, the more successful an advisor becomes, the

busier his or her schedule will be. Even so, by implementing better time management techniques, there is a way to reduce stress

levels and to make the day more productive.

To that end, the following are some tips meant to help advisors better manage their workdays.

Be an Early Bird

What a broker or advisor does in the morning sets the tone for the day. That's why the most successful advisors wake up early

and address personal issues before they come to work. They fix things around the house, make personal phone calls, have their

morning coffee, get a haircut and take care of all of the little things that would otherwise distract them during the work day.