SOURCE: 1409 The role of Finance.ppt
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Finance Management
SUMMARY: The document discusses the role of finance in a business, highlighting the responsibilities of the CFO, internal controls, expense reduction, and key financial metrics to monitor.
KEYWORDS: finance, internal controls, expense management, forecasting, key performance indicators
---

[Document: 1409 The role of Finance.ppt]
[Presentation Topic: The main topic of this presentation is: The Role of Finance]

[Slide 1]

BB Retail CapitalThe Role of Finance

September 2014

[Slide 2]

The Role of Finance

Report to the CEO, but we all work for BB

It’s not only about the numbers: Finance provides a service to the business

What can Finance do to assist the business ?

No surprises

CFO to be Gatekeeper

Ensure internal controls are maintained

CFO’s role is not to prevent the business from operating, but

CFO’s must report breaches, major issues, etc to BB

This is not an expectation but part of the role

[Slide 3]

The Role of Finance

As Gatekeeper

“Police” the OTB

CEO to be made aware of purchases exceeding the OTB target

Capex in line with Group principles

Signatories

Two signatories, proper division of duties

All CFO’s and Finance Managers are trained to understand internal controls and the proper authorisation processes that are required

Reconciliations

Monthly

Outstanding items cleared

[Slide 4]

The Role of Finance

Things to be aware of:

Duplicate and over payments

Limit scanning and copying of invoices: it increases the risk of duplicate payments

Archiving

When there is an urgent need to have something done (eg obtain a signature), it means that there is an issue that needs attention

Contracts longer than 12 months

3 quotes

[Slide 5]

The Role of Finance

Expense reduction vs CODB (as a % of sales)

The cost reduction approach finds ways to improve earnings by reducing operational store costs or overhead support – it’s internally focussed.

CODB looks outside the organisation to competitors and what is happening in other markets.

Includes new or improved management practices; applying shared learning and collective experience to improve outputs; finding efficiency and productivity improvements to dated processes or methodology.

How can we do things differently to make us better than last year.

[Slide 6]

The Role of Finance

Business Improvement Plan

This is not meant to be the accountants taking LY numbers and adjusting them either up or down.

Identify initiatives from strategy days, BBRC university, workshops and incorporate into the BIP

[Slide 7]

BBRC – what’s important

CODB

Forecasts

OTB

KPI’s

MBO/QBO report

BBRC – important issues

[Slide 8]

BBRC – what’s important

CODB:

Lower than Last year

By day

By week

By month

By department (some departments may need to compensate for others)

FY15 BIP by month to show lower CODB

CODB graph:

Month and YTD compared against Last Year

[Slide 9]

BBRC – what’s important

Forecasts:

Forecasts should reflect the view of business,  but if CFO’s disagree this needs to be highlighted.

Update each month - must do! Should be changing – otherwise need to answer why not...

To “look” forward at least 3 months (even at year end!)

Eg, In May of each year – show June, July, August

Cash flow

Lowest balance each month – minimum of $500k (should also be documented on KPI page, Actual vs forecast, no more than $500k. Make use of overdraft for inter-month shortfalls)

Ensure no “excess” cash left in business

When making distributions: send email or remittance advising all shareholders – courtesy

[Slide 10]

BBRC – what’s important

OTB:

Excess inventory takes a long time to correct

CFO to act as “devil’s advocate”

Ensure forecasts are debated

CFO’s are Gatekeeper to the business

Buyers must buy to current trend (plus 1% or minus 1%).

Monthly meetings

Inventory levels: Show Actual vs Target

[Slide 11]

BBRC – what’s important

KPI’s:

KPI indicators to be colour coded

KPI’s to be on one page

See Lovisa example

[Slide 12]

BBRC – what’s important

MFO/QBO	 reports

Business Improvement Plan (BIP) Do not use the term Budget

Waterfall graphs: Actual compared to BIP and LY

Timing

Flash report: 8 days after month end Make sure this is being done! It is used for Group consolidation.

Monthly report: 10 days after month end

Inventory table: compare against 3 months ago

WHS – no longer called OHS (change the title in the report)

If there’s a large variance (against BIP or LY) provide the explanation

Bank covenants to be colour coded – e.g. Bold red vs Green!

[Slide 13]

BBRC – what’s important

Other:

Attendance records

Make sure they are up to date

Update weekly

Brazin Policies – make sure up to date – to be checked at each semi annual review

Archiving  - to be done properly

Internal controls – electronic banking more than 1 administrator, proper division of duties

Internal audit checklist – sent to me monthly

Agreements – no longer than 12 month’s – otherwise Board approval

Invitations to events (cricket) – it’s a conflict of interest

[Slide 14]

BBRC – what’s important

BBRC important issues:

Finance is a service department to the business

When the Board raise an issue – it’s important

Rhythm

Stocktakes (up to Christmas set-up)

Forecasts: monthly

OTB meetings

Crossdocking from China

[Slide 15]

Questions ?