SOURCE: 1409 Time Management articles_pre reading.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Time Management Strategies
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for effective time management, including preparing before work, using the commute time, and making early and frequent contacts with clients.
KEYWORDS: time management, productivity, client outreach, prospecting, preparation
---

and address personal issues before they come to work. They fix things around the house, make personal phone calls, have their

morning coffee, get a haircut and take care of all of the little things that would otherwise distract them during the work day.

They also read, watch programs such as CNBC, peruse The Wall Street Journal or the Investor's Business Daily and make

themselves aware of what's going on in the international markets and on the domestic front that could have an impact on the

day's market action. Alternately, others might use this time to organize a call list so they'll Know which clients they're going to

phone throughout the day. (For related reading, check out Keeping Clients Through Good And Bad.)

In short, don't just roll out of bed and come to work. Be productive so that when you come into the office, you're ready to hit the

ground running.

Use the Commute

Use your commute to your advantage. Read the latest issues of BusinessWeek, Forbes or Fortune, or listen to a cassette about

becoming a better salesperson. Your local bookstore is full of them! Again, the key is to do something so that when you are at

work, you can focus on garnering new clients and servicing existing ones.

Another idea: If you haven't already done so, plan your day. Figure out what amount of time you are going to dedicate to

prospecting, to servicing existing client accounts and to furthering your education. Again, the more prep work you do now, the less

stressed you'll be when you enter the office.

Make Contacts Early and Often

Some advisors fritter away their day, preferring to wait until the evening hours to contact their clients. This is often a mistake

because when people get home from work, they're either too tired or too busy with personal matters to talk business. In fact,

even if you do get a hold of them, they aren't going to stay on the phone any longer than they have to, much less listen to your

long-winded sales pitch.

© tn addition, if you think about it, it's nearly impossible to fit in all of the calls that you need

to make to be a successful advisor during the evening hours. It simply leaves too little

time to build relationships, sell your products or talk to more than a handful of clients or

prospects. (For related reading, see Targeting Ideal Customers.)

The solution: call clients at work. Many clients won't mind - after all, it's their money, they

worked hard for it and they want to be reassured that their investments are in good

hands. Your call will serve that purpose. So call early, and call often.

Make Time For Prospecting

Once a broker or advisor establishes a client base. he or she often nealects to prospect

moved or simply wanted to liquidate their securities holdings to buy real estate, you'd probably see your fee payments or

commission runs drop dramatically, right? This is precisely why you need to prospect and to have a constant influx of new

customers,

With that in mind, if you are so busy that no matter how you reformat your schedule you can't squeeze in prospecting, consider

hiring a cold caller. In fact, if you are a top producer, your firm will probably be glad to provide you with one. If not, consider tapping

an intern or a local college student to generate potential sales leads. (To learn more, see Cold Cal/ Without Getting The Cold

Shoulder and Alternatives To The Cold Call.)

Work Over Lunch

Brokers and advisors are notorious for taking long lunches. But instead of frequenting the local watering hole, consider reading

during lunch. Better yet, use the time to exchange sales ideas with your co-workers, or to familiarize yourself with your firm's

research reports. Yet, another idea is to kill two birds with one stone and meet a client or a prospective client over lunch.

Everyone needs to eat, but spending an hour or two away from the office every day will not only make you less productive, it may

also have an adverse impact on your money line or commission run.

Look Alive Between Four and Five

When the stock exchange closes at 4pm EST most brokers and advisors get up from their desks, chat with their colleagues and

generally pass time until 5:30 or 6pm when they start calling their clients at home.

This is a mistake, Use this hour to your advantage! Cail on businesses before they close for the day, or call your clients before they

go home from work for the day. Or simply review the day's trades and catch up on some paperwork. Again, many advisors waste

this hour. Don't fall into this trap.

Work to Your Limit, Not Past It

Fit as much as you can into a day, but don't exceed your limits. While working late can make you money, it can also lead to

burnout. To avoid this, a good method is to come up with a list of activities in the morning that should be completed during the

day. Then, once that list is completed, go home! Spend time with your family. Relax. Remember, being an advisor is akin to running

a marathon, not a sprint. So pace yourself.

Bottom Line

Being a broker or an advisor is tough work. In this field, time management skills aren't a luxury - they're a necessity in order to

increase efficiency and to ultimately succeed.

Trade Like a Top Hedge Fund

What can technical traders see that you don’t? Investopedia presents Five Chart Patterns You Need to Know, your guide to

technical trading like the pros. Click here to get started, and learn how to read charts like an industry veteran.