SOURCE: 15.07.07_HFT AAR feedback_RESULTS01.doc
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.06 HFT - AAR
TOPIC: Performance Review and Improvement
SUMMARY: Feedback on a High Focus Topic session discussing the importance of After Action Reviews (AARs) to enhance business performance and foster continuous improvement.
KEYWORDS: After Action Review, Continuous Improvement, Performance Feedback, Business Review, Lessons Learned
---

BBRC High Focus Topic – After Action Reviews (AARs)

Date: 			6th July 2015

What did you like best about today’s High Focus Topic session?

Eloise: Reinforced the importance of reviewing major events & launches. Interesting one of shopfit after a roll-out this will be incorporated once Tony finds us some sites to work on

Kate: Quality of pre-reading meant learnings from there and the call. Quality of questions was great, prompting various trains of thought

George: As usual shared experiences from other groups and Brett’s insight.

Gary: Reminder of the power of AAR’s to multiply good habits and stamp out poor habits.  Focus on future not past.  Commitment and leadership from Shane re revisiting AAR’s within Lovisa.

Darren: Impact on Kate and Kim who joined the call. BB’s stories on early AARs.

What do you think could be improved?

Eloise: I think the video lacked credibility because it was so old. Too American and masculine. Thought it waffled on.

Kate: Ask everyone their key learning from the pre-read

Gary: A little more detail on exactly how different teams use AAR’s, perhaps by way of distributing best case AAR documents or procedure etc.

Darren: Nothing

Any other comments?

Kate: A great “open learning” environment

Gary: Timely and excellent.  I loved the operational orders section of the pre-reading, including the brief back concept, and look forward to integrating BAR’s also.  Also loved emphasis on AAR’s improving thinking (long term, forward looking, wide ranging application) rather than things (short term, backwards looking, situational).

Darren: Apologies for “missing” the homework in time. One strike and last strike for me!