SOURCE: 2. 2015-Multi-channel-Retail-Report-Ampersand.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Multi-Channel Retail
SUMMARY: An analysis of multi-channel retail strategies and customer experiences in the UK, based on the Ampersand Retail Matrix score.
KEYWORDS: multi-channel retail, customer experience, Ampersand Retail Matrix, UK retail
---

Multi-channel

amp.co

Retail Report

2015 UK edition

Multi-channel retailers in the UK analysed and scored on

overall multi-channel customer experience.

“Click and collect, drones, Amazon

buying physical stores, same day

delivery, and device usage. This has

been another dramatic year of change

in multi-channel retail.

“Technology and evolving consumer behaviour have challenged the capabilities

of retailers to their limits. Agility is crucial for multi-channel retailers to keep up

with rapid change. Many are still failing to execute on obvious strategies to build

customer loyalty. Our report identifies significant gaps in retailers’ multi-channel

strategies. It highlights opportunities where every retailer can improve. It serves

as a challenge to us all to continue the quest for continual improvement.

“The ‘day job’ often distracts us from our ultimate aim of amazing customer

experiences. This report’s aim is to provide insight and a quantitative framework

for measurement. We wish to aid in giving retailers actionable items to focus on.”

Darryl Adie

Managing Director, Ampersand

da@amp.co

DEFINITION

We have defined a “multi-channel” retailer as

those that sell online in physical stores.

and

The Ampersand Retail Matrix score for each retailer is based on the overall multi-channel customer experience. We have considered a wide range of factors, all applicable

to specialist multi-channel retailers. The Matrix identifies the best-performing multi-channel retailers in the UK.

Based on the definition, we then split the retailers into the following segments:

Children, Department, Electrical, Fashion, Luxury Fashion, Food, Health & Beauty, Home & DIY, Sports & Outdoor , Stationery & Gifts

A unique report about truly multi-channel retailers in the UK.

The result?

THE RETAILERS

Adidas Cotswold Outdoor Gap JD Sports Mothercare Smythson

American Golf Cotton Traders Go Outdoors Jessops Mulberry Snow & Rock

Ann Summers Crabtree & Evelyn Gucci Jigsaw Multiyork Furniture Space NK

Anya Hindmarch Craghoppers H&M Jimmy Choo Nespresso UK Ltd Specsavers

AO Crew Clothing Habitat JJB Sports New Look Speedo

Apollo 2000 Currys Halfords John Lewis Next Staples

Apple D&G Hamleys Karen Millen Nike Superdrug

Aquascutum Debenhams Harrods Kiddicare O2 UK Tesco

Argos Dell Harvey Nichols Kurt Geiger Oak Furnitureland The Body Shop

Armani Diesel Harveys Furniture L’Occitane Optical Express The Entertainer

Asda Dior Haskins Furniture Laithwaites Paperchase The Fragrance Shop

Asics Disney Store Hawkin’s Bazaar Laura Ashley Paul Smith The Pen Shop Ltd

B&Q Dune Hermes Lego Prada The Perfume Shop

Barbour Dunelm HI Weldricks Liberty Reebok The Whisky Shop

Bathstore Dunnes Stores Hillarys Blinds Links of London Richer Sounds Thomas Pink

Beales Early Learning Centre Hobbs Lloyds Pharmacy River Island Thorntons

Bensons for Beds Estee Lauder Hobbycraft Group Lush Retail Robert Dyas TJ Hughes

BHS Euronics Holland & Barrett Majestic Wine Rohan TK Maxx

Blacks Outdoor Division Evans Cycles Homebase Mamas & Papas Rowlands Pharmacy Top Shop

Boots F Hinds Hoopers Manor Pharmacy Russell Hobbs Toys R Us

Build A Bear Fat Face Hornby Maplin Ryman Vodafone

Burberry Field & Trek Hotel Chocolat Marc Jacobs Sainsburys Waitrose

Cameraworld Flannels House of Fraser Marks and Spencer Schuh Waterstone’s

Carphone Warehouse Fortnum & Mason HP Matalan Screwfix WH Smith

Chain Reaction Cycles Foyles Hughes Electrical Menkind Scribbler Whistles

Clarks Fred Perry Iceland Michael Kors SCS Whittard of Chelsea

Clinton Cards French Connection Ikea Miu Miu Selfridges Wickes

Coast Furniture Village Interflora Molton Brown Simply Be Wiggle

COS Game Jaeger Morrisons Smyths Zara

Results

Top-rated Bottom-rated

1. House of Fraser 1. HI Weldricks

2. Selfridges 2. Cotton Traders

3. Marks and Spencer 3. Rowlands Pharmacy

4. JD Sports See how you compare. 4. Hoopers

Download the full Retail

5. Wiggle 5. Miu Miu

Matrix (Excel file).

6. BHS 6. Prada

7. John Lewis Click here 7. Rohan

8. Coast 8. Nespresso

9. JJB Sports 9. Hamleys

10. Maplin 10. Laithwaites

11. Asda Direct 11. Manor Pharmacy

12. New Look 12. Kiddicare

13. Tesco Direct 13. Russell Hobbs

14. COS

12%

of fashion retailers don’t

offer click and collect

21%

of bottom-scoring retailers

use Oracle ATG

9%

of multi-channel retailers offer

collection within 1 hour

Technology

We used Google Developers PageSpeed Tool for scoring speed on desktop Technology by sector

and mobile. For desktop just 28% of retailers scored 75 or above out of

100. The average was 66. Marc Jacobs and Clintons Cards were the worst Compared to other sectors, department stores offer customers the best

performing for both mobile and desktop speeds. multi-channel experience. House of Fraser, Selfridges and John Lewis all

feature in the top 10.

Mobile speed continues to be a key area for improvement for most retailers.

Over a third (37%) of retailers achieved scores below 50. Only six retailers Luxury and pharmaceutical retailers fared worst. These included Miu Miu,

scored 75 or above for mobile, with Sainsbury’s achieving an impressive 95. Prada, Mulberry, Rowlands Pharmacy, HI Weldricks and Manor Pharmacy.

Of the poorest performing retailers, the most common ecommerce platform 5 Home & DIY retailers featured in the top 20 list for best desktop speeds

was Oracle ATG. 33% of Oracle ATG retailers achieved a score less than 30. including Oak Furniture Land, Ikea, Hillarys Blinds, Dunelm and Bathstore.

Compared to BT Fresca (0%), Demandware (0%), Hybris (20%), IBM (8%),

We used Google PageSpeed Insights to build a user experience score. 29

Magento (10%) and Venda (0%).

retailers scored a perfect score of 100. Department stores, Luxury Fashion

and Home & DIY retailers were the strongest in this area.

Customer journey

Almost a third (31%) of multi-channel retailers do not offer a persistent cart across devices. A function that we believe is

fundamental to a great multi-channel experience.

One in three multi-channel retailers does not accept alternative payment methods such as PayPal. This limits the options

available to customers to complete a transaction.

Just 69% offer a guest checkout, meaning that 31% force customers to sign-up to buy. Only 42% of retailers offer real-time

stock availability information.

Customer journey by sector

Real-time stock information was most prevalent amongst: Sports & Outdoor (63%), Stationary & Gifts (71%), Electrical

(52%) and Fashion (45%)