SOURCE: 2. 2015-Multi-channel-Retail-Report-Ampersand.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Multichannel Retail Trends
SUMMARY: Analysis of various multichannel retail trends, including guest checkout, real-time stock information, alternative payments, and delivery options across different retail sectors.
KEYWORDS: multichannel retail, retail trends, customer experience, delivery options, payment methods
---

Just 69% offer a guest checkout, meaning that 31% force customers to sign-up to buy. Only 42% of retailers offer real-time

stock availability information.

Customer journey by sector

Real-time stock information was most prevalent amongst: Sports & Outdoor (63%), Stationary & Gifts (71%), Electrical

(52%) and Fashion (45%)

Alternative payments were more available for retailers in: Sports & Outdoor (94%), Fashion (62%), Luxury Fashion (62%)

and Health & Beauty (83%)

A persistent cart across devices was embraced most widely by Fashion and Department stores.

See how you compare.

Download the full Retail Matrix

(Excel file).

Click here

browsing

Retailers offering faceted navigation, by sector.

(i.e. ability to filter products by multiple selections)

30

20

10

0

YES NO

Fas hion Depar tment Health & Beauty Sports & Outdoors

Fo od Stationer y & Gifts Home & DIY Elect ricals

mobile wall of shame

There are still retailers in the UK that have websites not optimised for mobile.

These are their logos*.

Out of these, three have a mobile app, only one of which is transactional – Nespresso. 12% of retailers do not make use of smart phone geolocation as part of their

store locator. The 21 retailers that do not are from a range of different sectors and include House of Fraser, Links of London, Ikea and WH Smith.

* This data is correct at time of publishing: February 2015. This page features 12 out of the 14 retailers who do not have a transactional mobile-optimised website.

Delivery

Click and collect offers retailers service differentiation opportunities in store, yet just 58% offer it.

More surprising though, is that only 72% of retailers are offering next day delivery. Same day delivery and collection in less

than an hour are only offered by 7% and 9% of retailers respectively.

Furthermore, just 10% offer a non-store collection service such as train station locker.

Delivery by sector

Fashion and Sports & Outdoor retailers excelled in delivery metrics, with retailers in the Food sector following closely

behind. However, Luxury Fashion retailers were least likely to offer click and collect services.

Department stores were most likely to offer next day and Sunday delivery. Electrical and Food retailers came out on

top for same day delivery.

Health & Beauty retailers were least likely to advertise free returns.

See how you compare.

Download the full Retail Matrix

(Excel file).

Click here

Click + Collect

Number of retailers offering click and collect, by sector.

25

20

15

10

10

0

YES NO

Fas hion Depar tment Health & Beauty Sports & Outdoors

Fo od Stationer y & Gifts Home & DIY Elect ricals

Next day + same day

Number of retailers offering next day and same day delivery, by sector.

30

20

10

0

Next day SAME DAY

Fas hion Depar tment Health & Beauty Sports & Outdoors

Fo od Stationer y & Gifts Home & DIY Elect ricals

Retailers have to be deliberate in their

decisions on what to do next.

This often means that some ‘obvious’ strategies fall further down the list for some

retailers. This is reflected in many of the findings.

Retailers must continue to keep pace but also push ahead with building

differentiating services. Harvey Nichols, for example, launched Click & Try last year.

This enables not only a collection point but the ability to try on products in store

with the help of a style advisor. This maintains a luxury customer experience and is

a great example of well-integrated retail.

Today’s consumers see time as a luxury and convenience as a given. Faster

delivery, low-friction transactions and excellent customer service are at the core of

retail.

A truly multi-channel experience requires seamlessness across all shopping

channels and platforms. Pure-play retailers are now entering into bricks and mortar

Let’s talk.

to compete for every transaction. Amazon’s foray into stores should serve as a

signal to retailers everywhere that this is just the beginning. Customer expectations

Darryl Adie, Managing Director

continue to grow as retailers continue to innovate.

Ampersand

Multi-channel retailers are not just leading that drive, they are the true face da@amp.co

+ 44 161 236 5504

of retail today.

APPENDIX

Method

To create the list of retailers in this report, we first aggregated various existing lists. Website navigation and product information including clear signposting, images,

We used IMRG financial rankings, web traffic data from Hitwise and Sitemorse’s faceted navigation, real-time stock and alternative payment methods

usability list. This gave us over 2,000 companies to research. We eliminated retailers

GPS/location information – whether customers can find the nearest store by using

that had no ecommerce presence or no physical stores.

geolocation

The remaining 177 retailers were split into their appropriate sectors, as detailed on

Availability of guest checkout

page 3.

Persistent cart across different devices

The Ampersand Retail Matrix criterion are our view of the core tenets of multi-

channel retailing. These tenets cross the boundaries of digital and physical customer

Delivery options, Click & Collect, non-store pick up options and communication of

experiences.

free returns

The criteria includes:

Mobile – whether the retailer has a transactional mobile site

Page load speeds and performance on desktop and mobile using Google Developers

PageSpeed Tools

Whether retailers provided clear information on payment options and returns policies

Retailers were then scored against the criteria and with a weighted formula, ranked in We then calculated the final score to be out of 100: =100/29*SCORE.

the Retail Matrix.

To calculate the base score marked out of 29 possible points from 25 criteria, a

retailer was awarded 1 point if it scored positively for each of the criteria mentioned

above, with these specifics:

• Offering click and collect same day

• Desktop Speed >81

• Mobile Speed >71

• UX Score >99

We awarded 3 points for the following criteria:

• Transactional mobile website

• Persistant cart

All research was completed in London, UK on a desktop PC (Windows 8) in a private browsing window and an iPhone 6 using iOS 8.1 operating system