SOURCE: 20120828 - Inventory Management Presentation - Wednesday.pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Inventory Management
SUMMARY: The document discusses various inventory management challenges and the actions taken to address them, focusing on improving data integrity and moving from reactive to proactive inventory management.
KEYWORDS: inventory error, data integrity, process improvement, stock adjustments, proactive management
---

[Document: 20120828 - Inventory Management Presentation - Wednesday.pptx]
[Presentation Topic: Inventory Management]

Known theft

Faulty

Stock adjustments

Sales without SKU

Price overrides

Transaction error refunds

Refunds

Stocktakes

Stockholding

[Slide 167]

Store Report

Delivered to Store, Regional and State teams

Inventory Pack

Delivered to State Mgrs and Support Centre Team

KRI Scorecard

Delivered to SWAT Stores, Regional Mgrs, State & National Mgrs

Measures & Reporting Examples

[Slide 168]

Most significant issues we had to deal with...

The lack of process infrastructure, inter-department knowledge and ownership

We had mini processes in every department...each department did it ‘their way’ without consultation as to the impact on other departments and the flow-on effect to data integrity.

Our actions to fix inventory error was actually causing more damage!

Example –Stock adjustments …we were fixing the outcome not the cause!

We processed over 815k units of adjustments in the first half of FY12.  It took 2 TM in merch to process.  Our merch team was spending more time reacting than planning.  We started to adjust our adjustments.

Rectification –

we ceased adjusting inventory errors and started to focus on the cause…IBT management was the largest impact

process for faulty and theft implemented daily to ensure data was up to date to increase replenishment.  Reports created to monitor compliance

restructured the adjustment process and appointed an inventory analyst, trained to investigate prior to adjustment to minimise error

implemented a check system and signoff prior to adjustment being processed to ensure all IBT faulty/theft was up to date to avoid over adjustment

all adjustments were logged and the cause of the error identified

the causes were assessed and consistently applied to improve processes.

Significant reduction in stock unit adjustments (in & out) in 2nd half of FY12

An Issue we had to Address

[Slide 169]

To date we have implemented the following to manage data integrity....

identified the core risks and processes in the business

reviewed and identified opportunities across retail, merch, buying, IT and DC

implemented exception reporting, targeted to identify issues and support the business in achieving its KPIs

created training packages on inventory management across retail to educate the team on the bigger picture and impact on sales

implemented audit processes in store and DC to ensure compliance

upgraded polling processes to improve success rate

re-aligned tasks to departments and team to create ownership of results

implemented structured stock adjustment processes

removed black holes/dumping grounds - refined shrinkage write-off branches to manage cost and impact and create a clearer picture of our position

random  10 item data integrity review part of every regional store visit

2  store controlled fortnightly stocktake program (to commence).

We are aiming to move from reactive inventory management to

proactive management and risk mitigation

Our Actions to Date

[Slide 170]

External third party impacts

Delivery and transit –

stock between DC and Store and the processes linked to accepting IBTs

we need to start formally documenting issues and push ownership onto our freight partners

eg: split deliveries, damaged deliveries, IBT paperwork error, wrong delivery/wrong store.

Rostering/wage restraints –

we have reviewed all inventory processes, added structure, training and ownership.   Stocktakes are starting to identify external theft as a threat

our theft profile is a Minor – School-aged female.  Minimal organised theft

we currently roster as per base rosters – frequently 1 TM in a store at any one time.

Hall Of Mirrors

12 months ago diva would have ranked 3 out of 10 for data integrity.  We were focused on fixing errors, not the processes causing them.

Now we rank ourselves 7 out of 10

We have tackled data integrity from the retail perspective and now our opportunity lies with support centre training and processes around markdown stock.

Moving Forward

[Slide 171]

Brand Questions / Discussion

What measures are used?

What reports are used? What happens to them?

KPIs?

Who’s “3 to 5” KPIs have Data Integrity as one of them? Ownership?

Method of “Culturalising” Data Integrity in the business (Retail & CS)?

Most significant issues? How addressed?

Any unique solution you are particularly “excited” about?

Single biggest existing unsolved frustration or issue?

170

[Slide 172]

Data Integrity September 2012

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 173]

Measures and Reports for Data Integrity

Negative SOH report by store

Outstanding IBT and PO by store

Stocktake

Negative Receipts by Store

Warehouse Pick Checks

DTS delivery errors by Supplier

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 174]

Negative SOH by Store

Sent to stores every second week for action.

Stores perform count on negative stock and return to Customer Support for correction

Reported monthly as part of board pack.

No consequences for stores if negative SOH report not actioned.

Introduction of dynamic targets makes it crucial for data integrity to be right.

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 175]

Store Negative SOH

Store keys in count and returns to customer support

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 176]

Monthly Negative SOH

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 177]

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 178]

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 179]

Outstanding PO and IBT

Emailed weekly to AM’s

As part of work-out just conducted this will be emailed directly to every store.

Checked at Customer Support on a weekly basis for ALL outstanding IBT’s – this identifies where stores have sent stock to wrong locations (e.g. in-transit locations)

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 180]

Despite weekly reports to AM’s you can see that there are still outstanding IBT’s between stores (our biggest problem) and from DC’s

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 181]

Outstanding PO Report

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 182]

Identifying “negative” receipts

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 183]

Stocktake

Performed six monthly on all stores, except stores with a poor result.

A good stocktake result will have a positive result in that the store does not need to re-do a stocktake for another 12 months (4 to 5 stores currently)

Very poor results will see the store re-scheduled almost immediately, an unacceptable result sees them scheduled again in the next 6 month cycle.

It’s about the Customer, always!