SOURCE: 20120828 - Inventory Management Presentation - Wednesday.pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Inventory Management and Forecasting
SUMMARY: The text discusses using data, gut instinct, and trial-and-error approach to manage inventory and make forecasting decisions for new products.
KEYWORDS: inventory management, forecasting, data analysis, gut instinct, trial and error
---

[Document: 20120828 - Inventory Management Presentation - Wednesday.pptx]
[Presentation Topic: Inventory Management]

The key - use all data available to you and then tweak.  E.g. If product is about to be displayed in a new way with no exact history

At diva, Sdia2 (the “glitzy” diamante range) was given a facelift of new cards and an A-location.  Sales went through the roof (became our highest GM$ range outside of Christmas, sales almost doubling within 2 weeks).

This uplift was mostly anticipated, only a few lines caught us short.

[Slide 77]

Follow Your Gut

Gut also needs to come into play when seeing some new products through the sign off process.  While we can always use historical data for similar products to indicate expected sales of a new item, it won’t always provide a fit that feels right and sometimes our gut needs to overrule the data at hand.

For our products there are so many variables to analyse, and sometimes despite what the data may suggest you can just look at a piece and know what will happen next

E.g. Body harnesses in diva AUS vs UK sales.

[Slide 78]

Trial and Error

Where no data exists for a particular type of product or range, we aim to “test” first where possible

A “prototype” is purchased in small quantities to launch in a test group of stores as quickly as possible (at expense of margin if needed)

We not only see results of test item but also any side effects of it being in store (e.g. a range of $5 rings).

When testing a range, best and worst sellers emerge quickly

This has saved us lots of heartache – some tests stopped there, some became all-store ranges

One word of caution though – trials need to be downplayed in test stores, or the enthusiasm of the Team in selling the items can skew your results!

[Slide 79]

Trial and Error

Last year, test stores were used to trial potential Christmas add-ons (lots at stake if wrong product purchased in high volume)

Several competing styles were dropped into different stores, and an incentive launched to ensure the environment would be as close to Christmas as possible (e.g. Prizes up for grabs for Teams selling most items)

The outcome was that there was one stand-out style that surpassed sales of all others, and results were consistent in the test stores regardless of which store/region/state we looked at

Hence the jewellery stand was chosen as the item to back and production could then go ahead for 75,000 pieces with confidence that we would sell through.

[Slide 80]

Have a Brains Trust

While the responsibility of forecasting will traditionally sit within the Merch Planning Team, sharing means more opinions can make for better decisions

Merch Planning Teams are very good with the numbers, modelling etc. but may not be so great with the “gut feel” component of forecasting, and that is where Head of Product/ Buyers/ CEO/ GM can be invaluable in sharing their thoughts

Having a select group of people take part in sign offs

for example will ensure that healthy conversation

and debate takes place for new pieces coming into

the business

[Slide 81]

PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE

[Slide 82]

Have a Detailed Plan

As mentioned before, every product and range goes a process of sign offs to make it in store

This process covers everything including;

Item design (colour, length, materials, style etc.)

Pricing

Carding

Merchandising

Marketing/ POS

Allocation plans

Expected ROS

Exit strategy

The planning for us will also consider what will happen to the item once the range has reached the end of it’s life as a range, but before the item goes to markdown.  On our Line Print, we are already thinking before an item even reaches our DC about where this product “fits” down the track and making notes on what the next stage will most likely be in each item’s life

Our merchandising spaces are very finite and without this forward planning we would risk our stores looking like the sale sections at the back of apparel stores (jumbles of colours and styles with no story)

[Slide 83]

Have a Detailed Plan

Once our plan is set, each department goes away and starts working on their part to play in the life of each product.  E.g. designing new display materials or new signage, working on an incentive for stores to support sales, external marketing preparation like a Facebook competition, or working on floorplans to lock in which store formats will hold the range and where in the store it will sit.

This process has several check points, the major ones being once the product hits the DC and then again when it is ready to be allocated

Having each department involved and understanding the role the other departments are playing helps to create that real “Team” ownership – so we share the wins and also share in the responsibility when a range does not meet expectations

It also makes it easier to band everyone together in the event that a range is underperforming and something needs to be changed in order to lift performance.

[Slide 84]

Once the product hits the floor

React, React, React

Our buyers are looking at their range by sku after 1-2 days in store

We then do a formal review on Mondays after the first weekends trade

This is our opportunity to look at whether ROS and GM$ forecasts  were accurate and react accordingly for the good and the bad !

[Slide 85]

React, React, React

Example; If we had a range that was expected to hit sales of $60k week one, but it only hit $40k, we would dig into what went wrong to learn for next time, make changes to ranges in ‘in work’ and then react to the current issue;

Change the range plan

Move the range

Promo to get sell through mark down the ‘dogs’

The same takes place at sku level

White sticker mardown

Red sticker markdown

Pull the sku into a promo

Get better stock into the wall