SOURCE: 20120828 - Inventory Management Presentation - Wednesday.pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Inventory Management
SUMMARY: The document discusses various aspects of inventory management, including stock take, data integrity, and addressing issues related to negative stock and poor inventory receipting.
KEYWORDS: inventory management, stock take, data integrity, negative stock, inventory receipting
---

[Document: 20120828 - Inventory Management Presentation - Wednesday.pptx]
[Presentation Topic: Inventory Management]

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 181]

Outstanding PO Report

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 182]

Identifying “negative” receipts

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 183]

Stocktake

Performed six monthly on all stores, except stores with a poor result.

A good stocktake result will have a positive result in that the store does not need to re-do a stocktake for another 12 months (4 to 5 stores currently)

Very poor results will see the store re-scheduled almost immediately, an unacceptable result sees them scheduled again in the next 6 month cycle.

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 184]

Stocktake

Stores previous 3 stocktakes plotted on graph to show improvement (or not)

Outline by Dept to identify key areas of concern

In dusk world high shrink in Home Fragrance dept indicates a problem with receipting of DTS deliveries.

Along with an action plan and a detailed list of all variances are sent to the AM and NRM for follow up.

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 185]

Culturalising Data Integrity

Recognised we had a serious problem, and had a work out earlier this year to deal with store Goods In, and store IBT’s.

Changed in-store processes to red file/green file so that stores have easy to follow processes for processing

This is still a work in progress but will go a long way towards fixing the issues.

Changing processes to make store managers accountable for store receipting.

New Futura function “Negative SOH” warning pop-up

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 186]

Issues

Shrinkage has been removed as a KPI from the retail team, and instead has moved to an “In-store breakages and burns” measure.

No-one in the company who has any data integrity measure as a KPI.

Poor stocktake results always come from stores with high negative stocks, poor IBT receipting disciplines, poor PO receipting disciplines

No Loss Prevention function or data audit function within dusk – all stocktake are done by one member of the planning team.

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 187]

Issues

No ownership of data integrity within the business – majority of reporting sits within planning team, but there are no KPI’s associated with anyone within the business for any data integrity issues (excl warehouse)

On a scale of 1-10, we are probably at a 2 or 3 – we have identified many of the causes of data integrity, but the big opportunity is to drive ownership throughout the business.

It’s about the Customer, always!

[Slide 188]

Brand Questions / Discussion

What measures are used?

What reports are used? What happens to them?

KPIs?

Who’s “3 to 5” KPIs have Data Integrity as one of them? Ownership?

Method of “Culturalising” Data Integrity in the business (Retail & CS)?

Most significant issues? How addressed?

Any unique solution you are particularly “excited” about?

Single biggest existing unsolved frustration or issue?

187

[Slide 189]

Brand Self Ratings

“How effective is my brand at managing Data Integrity overall?” (out of 10)

Adairs  5

BNT	 7

diva	 7

dusk	 2

Lovisa	 2

188

[Slide 190]

Action Points Discussion

What are the most effective ways to impact Data Integrity?

Effective cross brand measures? (e.g. Absolute Variance)

Best reports? “Sales Pattern Deviation” reports?

New concepts? (e.g. “Zero Balance Walk”)

World (P120) – increased checking throughout the supply chain? Balance against “sales preventing environment”(Bryn Mawr P140)

Who should “own” it in each organisation?

CEO “recognition / involvement: (e.g. Kaufman p211)

New Incentive?

Are there enough hours allocated to this issue? Cost vs. benefit?

Application of technology? RFID? (Cost vs. benefit) New algorithms?

The single biggest issue holding us back?

189

[Slide 191]

Action Planning

What happens next?

How to improve the situation?

“Goal Alignment”

What changes should each brand make? CAP

How to make it stick?

190

[Slide 192]

Time

Topic

191

Inventory Management ConferenceWednesday  29th August 2012

[Slide 193]

Time

Topic

192

Agenda for tomorrow…