SOURCE: 2012.01.06 HBR Blog - Retail Rage.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Supply Chain Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of poor in-store execution and its impact on customer experience and employee morale in the retail industry.
KEYWORDS: retail supply chain, customer experience, employee morale, in-store execution, business-school thinking
---

Retail Rage - Marshall Fisher - Harvard Business Review Page 1of 2

HBR Blog Network

Retail Rage

by Marshall Fisher | 3:10 PM January 6, 2012

I teach a course on retail supply-chain management that includes several classes on store execution. I began by

asking the students: "Who's had a bad experience in a store?" Every hand goes up. Then I ask: "Who's had an

experience so bad that it made you viscerally angry?" Every hand up goes up again.

I let a few students tell their tales of woe: How they walked into a store, intending to buy something, and couldn't

because they couldn't find the product and a store associate to help them... Or when they found a store

associate, he or she was unhelpful or rude... Or when they finally found the product they wanted to buy, there

was a long line at the checkout or no line but a problem with the POS terminal... The list goes on and on.

Sometimes I do this exercise when retail executives are visiting the class to support a case we're discussing

about his or her company. They point out that these experiences are no fun for the store associate either,

because usually the problem is not their fault yet they bear the brunt of the blame. No wonder they're rude.

A Mega-Problem for Retailers

Losing immediate sales when customers can't accomplish their shopping missions because of the problems

listed above is a huge issue for retailers. It makes customers unhappy, so they're more likely to go to a

competitor the next time they need to buy something. And it's bad for employee morale, leading to a downward

spiral of unhappy customers creating demoralized employees, making customers still more unhappy, and the

beat goes on. And it's especially bad these days, when retailers have little capital or confidence to open new

stores, so they need to get more out of existing stores through better execution.

Why is this happening and how can retailers fix it?

I think the root cause is business-school thinking gone wrong. We teach our students to be rigorous and manage

by the numbers. Not a bad idea, except that it leads to over-weighting the measurable and under-weighting

what's hard to measure. In a store, what's measurable is the payroll checks a retailer writes every week to its

stores' staffs. What's hard to measure is the impact that stores' staffs have on revenue.

This opens the door to self-delusion. Retailers can convince themselves that they can cut payroll by 5% in the

last three weeks of a quarter to meet their profit promise to Wall Street and it really won't impact customer

service, because there's probably people in the stores not doing anything anyway. But over time, it does matter

and leads to the problems listed above.

The Remedy

The cure is not to give up managing by the numbers, but to manage by the right numbers. That was the finding of

a study I conducted with my colleagues Serguei Nettesine and Jayanth Krishnan. We used two years of store

level data for a retailer on monthly sales, staffing levels, and customer-satisfaction-survey responses to measure

the impact of store-staffing levels on sales and customer satisfaction.

Our finding: The impact on revenue of increased store staffing was incredibly high. On average, revenue

increased by $10 for every additional dollar of payroll added to a store, and for some stores that were particularly

understaffed, the revenue lift was as high as $28. At the 40% gross margins this retailer was earning on revenue,

adding payroll was highly profitable, and fully supported by the numbers, once you had the right numbers. (For

http://blogs.hbr.org/cs/2012/01/retail_rage.html 18/07/2012

Retail Rage - Marshall Fisher - Harvard Business Review Page 2of 2

more on our study see "Out of Stock? It Might Be Your Employee Payroll — Not Your Supply Chain — That's to

Blame" and Chapter 6 of The New Science of Retailing, a book I wrote with Ananth Raman of Harvard Business

School.)

And let's not overlook the power of management by common sense. As a recent HBR article by my friend and

colleague Zeynep Ton points out, retailers such as QuikTrip, Mercadona, Trader Joe's, and Costco that treat

their workers fairly and with respect also end up being highly profitable.

http://blogs.hbr.org/cs/2012/01/retail_rage.html 18/07/2012