SOURCE: 20120828 - Inventory Management Presentation - Wednesday.pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Inventory Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of inventory management, including reacting to sales data, adjusting assortment plans, and the consequences of getting it wrong.
KEYWORDS: inventory management, assortment planning, sales data, product selection
---

[Document: 20120828 - Inventory Management Presentation - Wednesday.pptx]
[Presentation Topic: Inventory Management]

[Slide 85]

React, React, React

Example; If we had a range that was expected to hit sales of $60k week one, but it only hit $40k, we would dig into what went wrong to learn for next time, make changes to ranges in ‘in work’ and then react to the current issue;

Change the range plan

Move the range

Promo to get sell through mark down the ‘dogs’

The same takes place at sku level

White sticker mardown

Red sticker markdown

Pull the sku into a promo

Get better stock into the wall

Keep in mind, a dog is a dog, human nature is to look at every other reason first

At the other end for the ranges and pieces that have exceeded our forecasts we react !

[Slide 86]

Most important of all get out and about

[Slide 87]

Time

Topic

86

Inventory Management ConferenceWednesday  29th August 2012

[Slide 88]

Assortment planning

[Slide 89]

What is an assortment plan?

Assortment: The number of SKUs within a merchandise category, group or department

Assortment planning: The process to determine what and how much should be carried in a merchandise category. An assortment plan reflects the trade-off between the breadth and depth of products that a retailer intends to carry. It's all about offering the right product to the right customers!

The assortment planning process, when conducted systematically, helps answer questions such as:

Our main competitor has gone heavy into plus size lingerie. Should I?

What should the turns on my super trendy lava lamp be?

Our sponge bob square pants pajamas sold really well last year. Should I increase my SKU intensity?

How should the assortment in my new flagship store vary?

Hair scrunchies are selling poorly – should I cut them from my assortment?

[Slide 90]

Don't base an assortment plan on your gut, nor bad data! Or, why it's so important to "get it right"

Company is a major big box retailer in Australia

Buyer (who is different than the customer she buys for), liked a shirt she saw on a buy trip to London

Large order placed for Dolman Sleeve (66k units), although the silhouette had no sales history

5-6% weekly sell-through, even at 70% markdown

Lost target margin of >$1M – just on this 1 style

Negative effect on the OTB; no freshness in store

Two cautionary tales... from well-known mega retailers

Situation

Result

The product

Wal-Mart ran customers research to find out what they liked about competitors: Customers spoke about less clutter and brighter stores

Launched Project Impact (2008), neglecting their core differentiating factor – amazing assortment at rock-bottom prices – and cut 15% of SKUs

Sales losses estimated at $1.85B

Key executives in charge of roll-out  were fired

Project Impact abandoned: SKUs added back to the assortment

same store sales

[Slide 91]

If your assortment plan and product selection is perfect, what you've ordered equals demand...

Customer demand (units at price target)

Order quantity (units)

Right products

At right price

In right location

At right time

to

Meet projected sales

Generate required margins

Maintain defined stock cover

Build loyal customer base

In a perfect world...

...all goals met

[Slide 92]

...But this never happens! Why not?

Assortment planning happens early – often too early to accurately predict trends

Pricing is off (e.g. too high, or too low to be perceived as quality)

Competitors have a similar but better offering

Macro-economic conditions change

Some products – despite the best research – just aren't winners

...and for a whole host of other reasons

Therefore, it is critical to be as systematic as possible

[Slide 93]

Best practice: Varied inputs go into a systematic assortment planning process

Top-down

Bottom-up

Although separate activities, they are all tightly interlinked

Financial projections

What are market share goals?

What are revenue targets?

What is the OTB plan?

What are GMROM, GMROI, and unit sales goals?

Strategy & brand goals

Where do we want to compete in the market?

Who do we want to attract?

How will we localise?

Sales analytics

What sold well before?

How is a category trading?

how much shelf space should I dedicate?

Competitor analytics

Who is our key competition?

How is their assortment different than ours?

What are they winning on?

Consumer trends

What broader consumption trends are shaping the direction of the market?

Macro-economic trends

How has the economy affected how and what people buy?

1

Assortment

plan

2

3

4

5

6

[Slide 94]

Financial projections are typically based on last year's sales

Financial projections

1

Top-down projections important for overall business goal setting, but requires trend data (bottom-up)

Overall sales targets

Category sales targets

OTB targets by category

GM targets

Key top-down projections (among others)

Based on last year's performance

Based on category trends, strategy, and overall targets

Determined in conjunction with category sales targets

Set with rev, markdown, and category mix targets in mind

tightly interlinked

[Slide 95]

Some retailers also set market share goals by category, which feed into assortment plans

Financial projections

1

Example: Apparel retailer

Is the category growing?

What is my market share in this category?

What would 1 pt of higher market share get me in sales and GM$?

Would I be better off putting my money elsewhere?

Can I credibly compete in this category?

Key questions for this approach

[Slide 96]

What assortment mix is strategically right for the business?

Basics

Business model and assortment mix

Very trendy, generally more expensive than rest of assortment

Image enhancer

"one and done" (no replen: Sell-through or mark-down in short time frame)

Typically planned <2 months in advance

Often bought to minimum order quantities

Seasonal SKUs, but less trendy than "fashion"

product in store for 2-6 months

Sell-through, but mark down to clear out at end of season

Used to identify "new" anchors/basics

Typically planned 4-9 months in advance

Typically some replen

Long-term materials/fabrics and styles

carry through of >12 months, or cyclical

Typically larger buys, with several Key Items

Generally, largest profit share

Sales driven by competitive pricing