SOURCE: 20120828 - Inventory Management Presentation - Wednesday.pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Inventory Management
SUMMARY: The document discusses measures and processes for ensuring data integrity in inventory management, including store-level and distribution center-level initiatives.
KEYWORDS: data integrity, inventory management, stocktakes, shrinkage reporting, ownership
---

[Document: 20120828 - Inventory Management Presentation - Wednesday.pptx]
[Presentation Topic: Inventory Management]

Area / regional Manager to sign off on No Commercial Value (NCV) inventory in stores.

Weekly regional Conference Call has data integrity as an agenda item for any data integrity issues identified at stores.

Monthly Reports

Shrinkage Reporting (Stocktake, NCV and adjustments)

National / Region / Area

DC Weekly Rolling Counts

Online Weekly Counts of low quantity skus

[Slide 153]

Data Integrity Issues

Customer Focus / Product Innovation / Positive Attitude / Teamwork & Leadership

Previous Data Integrity Issues

Shrinkage reporting

Lack of training / understanding of data integrity

No ownership of data integrity

Christmas Product

Outstanding Data Integrity Issues

Old / discontinued SKU’s still able to be used in store

Customer Special Order Process

Store Stock Receipting - Manual Supplier Orders

[Slide 154]

Data Integrity

Customer Focus / Product Innovation / Positive Attitude / Teamwork & Leadership

Ownership

Finance Department in partnership with Operations – total business responsibility.

Stock Controller manages all Data Integrity Issues identified.

Data Integrity / Shrinkage is a KPM for:

Finance Director / Finance Manager / Stock Controller

National Retail Operations / Regional & Area Managers / Store Managers

DC Manager

[Slide 155]

Brand Questions / Discussion

What measures are used?

What reports are used? What happens to them?

KPIs?

Who’s “3 to 5” KPIs have Data Integrity as one of them? Ownership?

Method of “Culturalising” Data Integrity in the business (Retail & CS)?

Most significant issues? How addressed?

Any unique solution you are particularly “excited” about?

Single biggest existing unsolved frustration or issue?

154

[Slide 156]

Data Integrity

[Slide 157]

Reporting on Data Integrity

Stores

Stocktakes done twice year.

Full analysis of variances by stocktake team

Results sent to State, Area and store manager

Follow up by stocktake coordinator with every store manager with action plan put in place (follow-ups elevated to stocktake manager or LP manager if necessary

This year trialling in one state a stocktake roster based on risk analysis rather then automatic twice per year

DC

Similar to stores but follow up with DC manager and team leaders

[Slide 158]

bras N things Result Measures

[Slide 159]

bras N things Stocktake Result Sheet

[Slide 160]

Stocktake Team

Stocktake team are permanent in role.

Not just perform stocktakes.

Assist with action plans regarding data integrity.

Work with state retail team for all data integrity. issues.

Work with store team where high risk is identified.

Rolling out programme where state stocktake coordinator spends one day with each new store manager to complete data integrity training and checklist

[Slide 161]

Managing poor results

Example used New Zealand stocktake results

2010-2011 and 2011-2012

Identified many issues relating to stock management.

Focus on team training by state team.

Data integrity checklist completed at every store visit by AM’s and LP team.

All store to store transfers manually checked. This is still continuing.

Cameras installed in 3 high risk stores.

Weekly counts of high risk styles. This was done for a period of 6 months

Stocktake coordinator role became fulltime for six months with focus on training in every store on all operational tasks relating to stock management.

Extra round of stocktakes were rostered for 10 worst performing stores.

[Slide 162]

Single Biggest Unsolved Issue

FAULTIES!

Need to reduce volume and value of stock stores send to DC as faulty. Factors that will influence this are store team training and product changes eg. To reduce “yellowing” of white bras product team have developed a new process to cover lining of cups.

Need to improve handling of stock in DC eg reducing stock drop on DC floor, more care in packing pick bays.

Better manage the packing of stock prior to dispatch, eg wrapping breakable bottles.

Should all faulty stock be written off? In the past we have sent some faulty stock to an outlet store, cost analysis of this showed negative value

[Slide 163]

Management of data integrity

Stocktakes, stock adjustments managed by stocktake and LP team reporting to CFO

KPI’s  regarding loss apply to LP manager, stocktake team, CFO .

Hall of Mirrors

Score: 7 We can to do more to                         		improve intransit reports, Faulties, 		negatives, stocktake results.

[Slide 164]

Brand Questions / Discussion

What measures are used?

What reports are used? What happens to them?

KPIs?

Who’s “3 to 5” KPIs have Data Integrity as one of them? Ownership?

Method of “Culturalising” Data Integrity in the business (Retail & CS)?

Most significant issues? How addressed?

Any unique solution you are particularly “excited” about?

Single biggest existing unsolved frustration or issue?

163

[Slide 165]

Data Integrity

[Slide 166]

Measures & Reporting

Inventory Key Risk Indicators are reported to 3 sectors:

Retail Store Team , Retail Management Team + Support Centre Team

Store Team

Weekly

LP Report

Monthly

SWAT Report

(top 30 high loss stores)

KRI Scorecard

6 monthly

Stocktake Report

Each KRI has a target set to identify exceptions or potential issues.

The store aims to achieve all targets set

Retail Management Team

Weekly

LP Report

Inventory Pack

Stocktake Summary

Monthly

KRI Scorecard

6 monthly

Stocktake Summary

Support Centre Team

Weekly

LP Report

Inventory Pack

Stocktake Summary

Stockholding Report

Picking Audits

Monthly

Stock Reports

6 monthly

Stocktake Summary

S/take Risk Assessment

RM and SM follow up with stores where exceptions are identified. Opportunities are identified to improve

SC reviews and investigates trends to mitigate risk and ensure processes do not cause loss.

Opportunities are identified to improve

Inventory KRIs

IBTs >7 days

IBTs DC

Negative                             stock

Known theft

Faulty

Stock adjustments

Sales without SKU

Price overrides

Transaction error refunds

Refunds

Stocktakes

Stockholding

[Slide 167]

Store Report

Delivered to Store, Regional and State teams

Inventory Pack

Delivered to State Mgrs and Support Centre Team

KRI Scorecard

Delivered to SWAT Stores, Regional Mgrs, State & National Mgrs

Measures & Reporting Examples

[Slide 168]

Most significant issues we had to deal with...

The lack of process infrastructure, inter-department knowledge and ownership

We had mini processes in every department...each department did it ‘their way’ without consultation as to the impact on other departments and the flow-on effect to data integrity.