SOURCE: 2014.03 BNT CEO INDUCTION TRAINING.pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Inventory Management
SUMMARY: The document discusses various issues and best practices related to inventory management and forecasting to ensure accurate on-hand balances (OTB).
KEYWORDS: inventory management, OTB forecasting, data integrity, stocktakes
---

[Document: 2014.03 BNT CEO INDUCTION TRAINING.pptx]
[Presentation Topic: Customer Focus]

All Product Team believe all their products and initiatives will sell

CFO not and carrying out audits to ensure all processes that contribute or can effect accurate OTB forecasting are accurate and appropriate

Product and product support team unaware of the impact and flow on of their work to the OTB forecasting

Not forecasting or inaccurately forecasting for unplanned product purchases (keeping some flexibility and $ in the back pocket)

Driving cash to hard

Not clearing “dogs” fast enough

Believing in miracles

[Slide 126]

Common (issues) affecting OTB forecasting Continued…

125

Delegation of OTB Planning to Merchandise Planning

Being too strict / Being too loose (near enough is good enough)

Unrealistic markdown forecasting

More than one OTB meeting per month.  You are overthinking the process

Weekly meetings should not have the word OTB mentioned

Forecasting to far ahead

Forecasting behind product planning

Building shortfalls in stock i.e. under stocked to quickly

Cutting OTB to aggressively and quickly to address over stocks

Ignoring overstocks……..some body must pay the piper

[Slide 127]

Data integrity

What is data integrity?

Why is it so important?

Article: The Missing Link

126

[Slide 128]

Why do we have Stocktakes ?

Consequences of inaccurate stock holdings

How we get inaccurate stock levels

How the process works

Measurement and reporting

Tips and traps

Stocktakes

[Slide 129]

CEO Learning

Your role as CEO

Specific Items for George

It’s about the customer, always!

Our people and our teams

Role of the support centre

Communicate, Communicate, Communicate

Management by objectives

Product / Promotions

Inventory Management

Work-Out

128

[Slide 130]

The History of Work-out at BBRC

129

WHAT IS WORK-OUT?

All started more than 6 years ago with my annual OS continuous learning trip

Took all the CEOs to the US to meet and get trained by the team at GE on work-out

Brought out GE facilitator to 2008 BBRC University to embed work-out throughout the group

Has been standard part of executive induction ever since

A most important tool for continuous improvement

[Slide 131]

Why we use work-out at BBRC

130

WHAT IS WORK-OUT?

To breakdown hierarchy, bureaucracy, eliminate useless meetings, reduce costs, create urgency and increase profits

[Slide 132]

Why we use work-out at BBRC (continued)

131

WHAT IS WORK-OUT?

Every organization develops clutter or inefficiencies over time

Focus on continuous improvement “if something can be improved then it must be”

Creates ownership and accountability by empowering the ones ‘doing the work’ to come up with the ideas and then take them forward

Cuts down the ‘them and us’ and supports ‘we the team’- but in a controlled and directed way

Forces us to stretch ourselves

Creates an organisation more capable of change more open to new ideas, less rooted in the past and more attuned to the future

It works

[Slide 133]

When do we use work-out?

132

WHAT IS WORK-OUT?

“Work-out should never be positioned in terms of, “We need to do a work-out!” – as though the activity itself is the result. Instead, Work-Out needs to be positioned in the context of achieving a business result that needs to be achieved anyway, or attacking a problem that needs to be solved in any case.”

THE GE WORK-OUT P.49

[Slide 134]

When do we use work-out (continued)?

133

WHAT IS WORK-OUT?

A problem that needs a big lift (think 50% improvement) not incremental improvements

When we have a business goal that is important & urgent: not a “nice to do”

Topic is broad enough for brainstorming not a single task or narrowly defined problem

The objective is improvement in “actual performance” not planning, training, measurement, and documentation

nb: good test is to get teams to define business impact to goal that has been set

When there aspects that can bring results right away either immediately or in 3-6 months at most. It won’t take years to realise

[Slide 135]

How regularly should we be performing a work-out?

134

WHAT IS WORK-OUT?

2 work-outs per month (except for December)

5% of our team to have experienced a work-out over the next 12 months

[Slide 136]

Thinking through criteria for a work-out goal

135

WHAT IS WORK-OUT?

BIG HAIRY AUDACIOUS GOAL (BHAG)

Stretch

Measureable

Achievable

Realistic

Time

[Slide 137]

Expected outcomes: at the work-outs conclusion, you should be able to tick each of these boxes…

136

WHAT IS WORK-OUT?

It must have brought together team members across the brand who know the issues best

Creative solutions need to have been developed as solutions to the problem

Decisions must have been made about what will and will-not be taken forward in a public forum

Billy Bean Action Plans must have been developed for each initiative

Quick results

[Slide 138]

Who is involved in the work-out process and what are their roles?

137

The Sponsor (Mandatory)

Is most often you (The CEO)

Demands the results

Not involved in the work-out process itself

Defines the issue and problem

May host the event / give the mandate / give clout

Sets out o scope

30-60-90 day follow up

The Champion (Optional)

Often like a department head

Will have more direct oversight of the work-out itself

Will drive the day-to-day follow up of ideas that come out of the work-out

The Facilitator (Mandatory)

Not necessarily the champion

Intimate understanding of process (experience)

Clear understanding of objectives and desired outcomes

Can challenge senior leaders and test assumptions (as facilitator)

Often good if not directly involved in the business issue being ‘worked-out’

Participants and team leaders (Mandatory)

Team members directly involved in problem being worked-out or at least affected by

Good to have diversity in team members

Will be the eventual owners of the ideas

[Slide 139]

138

The Billy Bean Action Plans

[Slide 140]

Expected outcomes from the work-out

139

BB (Billy Bean)Action Plans

Share and report of action plan progress (Continuous Improvement Tracking doc – from QBR)

Follow up meetings / discussions

Set regular meeting rhythms up front: 30/ 60/ 90 day reviews

CEO oversight and support

Clear expectations and milestones

Transparent success / failures