SOURCE: 2014.09 Academy Evaluation results FINANCE.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Training Program Evaluation
SUMMARY: The finance training program was well-received, with participants finding the information relevant and the presenters effective, while some suggestions for improvement were noted.
KEYWORDS: training evaluation, finance training, participant feedback, continuous improvement, presentation quality
---

BBRC Training Evaluation FINANCE – results (11 responses)

Presenters

How do you rate Brett? 55% 45% - -

Exceeded Met Needs No response

expectation expectations improvement

How do you rate Nico? 64% 36% - -

Exceeded Met Needs No response

expectation expectations improvement

Meeting Objectives

Today’s session was: 91% 9% - -

Very relevant Relevant Not relevant No response

Today will be beneficial in the 82% 18% - -

performance of my job: Very relevant Relevant Not relevant No response

How would you rate the information 100% - - -

presented? Just right Too advanced/ Too simple/ No response

difficult elementary

The length of time allocated to the 100% - - -

sessions was: Just right Too long Too short No response

Learning Environment

The facilities were appropriate (lights, 64% 36% - -

temperature, sound, seating etc) Exceeded Met Needs No response

expectation expectations improvement

How do you rate the visual presentations? 82% - 18% -

Beneficial Distracted Didn’t stand No response

from the out enough

training

Overall

Overall, how did you rate today? 55% 45% - -

Exceeded Met Needs No response

expectation expectations improvement

What have you taken away from today’s session and what will you do differently going forward? (Main responses)

1. Almost all of the participants took away a reminder to test their systems, controls and processes

2. Continuous Improvement was mentioned by a few

Top other general comments/takeaways from the evaluation results above:

1. 100% success on the information presented and all but 1 viewed the session as “very relevant”

2. 2 people thought the presentation materials didn’t stand out enough, with them viewed as “very chunky and wordy” by

one

3. Over half the participants said the day exceeded their expectations