SOURCE: 2015.10.07 HFT_CEO Role in Product_Oct 2015 RESPONSES.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.10 HFT - CEO Role in Product
TOPIC: Brand Innovation and Product Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses how Honey Birdette sources innovation from its young and ambitious team, focusing on key creative personalities and involving all employees in the product development process.
KEYWORDS: brand innovation, product development, team creativity, employee involvement
---

th

High Focus Topic Call – 7 Oct (Wed) at 11am

ELOISE MONAGHAN (Honey Birdette)

1. Please share 2 examples of how you are sourcing innovation from across your brand.

Almost everyone that speaks about Amancio says that he is a greatly intuitive leader. My "gut

feeling" is my gauge for every decision that I know will ultimately effect the customer. I also agree

that sometimes a team of "kids in Converse" can be more innovative and effective than those with

years of experience.

Honey Birdette is currently being run by National, State and Area Managers who are all young and

ambitious. Their career drive and determination is unmatchable and it is their invaluable experience

on the floor that motivates them to get the best out of their teams.

In terms of product, Honey Birdette only has three creatives that are the heart of design innovation

in the company. Cristina, a dedicated technical designer that has been with the company and shared

the vision since she began as a consultant. Ash is our intern turned Assistant designer that

despite being in her early twenties is already ahead of the game and Florian the design mastermind

that has come to touch every aspect of the business with his innovation genius. He always heavily

involves himself in the design process from the manufacturing stage in China to the moment it hits

the shelves.

Despite the growing demand I would prefer to have three strong, innovative personalities than a

larger team that doesn’t completely understand the brand.

At Honey Birdette we never “anchor” anyone in the same spot. Everyone has input into every

project, from new product to selecting our final campaign images. If Mandy, our fashion forward

accountant doesn’t respond to a shot or isn’t in love with the cut of a pair of knickers then we dive

deeper. I’ve just moved our Online Manager, Belinda into a Operations role after she called me on a

Saturday morning and said I want to do more. As long as she continues to show me her ability to

launch new initiatives and get it done then I will give her the freedom to do what she

is passionate about.

2. Ask your Head of Product/Merchandise (or equivalent) to define “innovation” and send through

their response (no editing allowed)

Instead of just reaching out to our Head of Product I asked everyone in our team to answer this

question. After all Innovation isn’t just about product, it is also about the customer experience

something which we are all heavily involved in. Here are a few of their responses:

I see innovation as the technical solution driven development work that must be applied to any

creative/new idea in order to translate it into a successful commercial product that meets a whole lot

of business criteria. i.e. functionality, produceability, desirability and business financial

requirements. Creativity needs Innovation, and vice versa - and they need to work together closely -

whether it is an in-house technical team innovating a new idea, or a factory in China developing a

new product. Innovation is also defined by it being an area of tough decisions and detachment- due

to the fine sieve through which ideas need to pass to be successful. Cristina, Senior Designer.

For me, innovation is never simply resting on your laurels and always looking for ways to grow. I like

to look at what everyone else is doing and asking yourself “how can I do this – but better!”. Belinda,

Retail Operations Manager.

Innovation is going beyond what people expect you to do. Forget about the trends, the rules, the pre-

conceptions. Know when to get your head out of numbers. Stop thinking of others and have a mind of

your own. Florian, Brand and Concept Manager.

Innovation is about expanding our influence through pushing the boundaries. It’s about delighting

our customer in new ways and attracting new devoted customers to the brand. It’s about brand

differentiation, success and survival. Chris, CFO.

Innovation is avoiding comfort zones. Eren, Head of Merch Planning

Innovation is like the first time you take a riding crop into the bedroom. Your basic instincts tell you

you’re on verge of something exciting yet it is still a little frightening but with a leap of faith and a lot

of lubricant you may just discover it’s exactly what they’ve been missing! Paige, Social Media

Coordinator.

3. List 3 ways that you can source more innovation through the way that you lead and or what you

do.

More design input from Store Managers. I could really relate to Amancio’s mindset of a shop

assistant. During the first few years of the business I was able to develop a certain sensitivity for

what our customers wanted which has greatly influenced my decisions during the day to day

operations of the business. Now I need to learn more from those at the forefront of our customer’s

desires. That is how we have come to develop our new app based toy. The customer's needs are

different to what they were when I was working the shop floor ten years

ago.

Using new technology to ensure that every inch of space in store is utilised. We are currently looking

into heat mapping to understand specifically what the customer is drawn to and what they are

looking for.

Dedicate time to more in-depth research on our customers. Targeting product to different stores and

placing orders to resonate with our customers desires.

PETER KING (Dusk)

1. Please share 2 examples of how you are sourcing innovation from across your brand

A) Suppliers – dusk is attempting to lift the fashionability of its core Candle &

décor/Homewares lines by using new suppliers for current & new categories. This

innovation comes from looking outside the existing supplier base. These new suppliers

offer a step up in design & materials for our volume categories. We will need to manage

their introduction carefully so as to not alienate existing customers with too much