SOURCE: 2015 BUYING ACADEMY_FINAL.pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Buying and Merchandising
SUMMARY: The document outlines best practices for conducting semi-regular range reviews, including preparing detailed performance analyses, involving key stakeholders, and maintaining a candid and action-oriented approach.
KEYWORDS: range review, performance analysis, buying team, merchandising, product development
---

[Document: 2015 BUYING ACADEMY_FINAL.pptx]
[Presentation Topic: Product Focus]

Nominate a “secretary” to take down key points/decisions to circulate after the range review; it can be a long session and it can be useful for recall

If org is big, do not bring whole Buying team; focus tends to get lost

Bring actual product to discuss – in fact, best if whole range is available for discussion

Core. Buying

Driven!

79

[Slide 80]

Semi-regular range reviews: 3 main levels of analyses to prepare beforehand

Performance analysis on overall assortment:

Performance of whole assortment, ranked by product category:

GMROI, sales to buy, GM%, and ASP this year vs. last year

Performance of whole assortment, ranked by range:

GMROI, sales to buy, GM%, and ASP this year vs. last year

Performance analysis at range level:

Overview by category within range

GMROI, sales to buy, GM%, ASP, and sell-through (TY vs. LY, if applicable, and vs. company average)

Performance on individual items:

Best and worst performers – this is a tricky one!

Tail analysis

80

[Slide 81]

Semi-annual range reviews: Attendees

Attendees:

Head of Buying

Buying team (how deep down depends on organisation structure/size)

Merch Planning

CEO

Head of Retail (may not be required)

Tips:

Heavy lifting analytics need to be done ahead of time

All ranges and categories should be reviewed IN DETAIL by Head of Buying and relevant buyers before meeting

Make sure it is action oriented – these can tends towards the “information sharing” rather than “decision making” meetings if they’re not tightly facilitated

Nominate a “secretary” to take down key points/decisions to circulate after the range review; it can be a long session and it can be useful for recall

If org is big, do not bring whole Buying team; focus tends to get lost. All Planners at category head level should attend

Core, but highly

driven by Merch

81

[Slide 82]

Candour

Product team candour

Respect and candour

What you don’t want

Criticisms

Excuses

Defensiveness

Insecurity

Surprises

What you do want

Accountability

Critical assessment

Facts

Open sharing

[Slide 83]

Our FUTURE

[Slide 84]

Future challenge/opportunity

More and more suppliers will become product creators, developers with in-house design capability and will develop their own brands

A Power Shift

84

[Slide 85]

Customers get bored quickly

Always want new, fresh, different

Product

Merchandising

Fit-out

We must thoughtfully keep mixing it up

85

Future challenge/opportunity

[Slide 86]

86

One Question?