SOURCE: 2015.04.15_BBRC Futurecasting HFT.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Technology and Innovation
SUMMARY: This document discusses how retailers can leverage technology and data to better meet evolving customer expectations and stay competitive in the market.
KEYWORDS: retail technology, customer expectations, data-driven decision making, innovation, business strategy
---

BBRC High Focus Topic series

“Futurecasting”

15 April 2015

10am Singapore / 12pm AEST

It’s about Her, Always!

1

Agenda and format

 FORMAT

─ Total time: 1 hour (extra 15 minutes if we need it)

─ On the phone: CEOs and other leaders

 AGENDA

− Quick BB topic intro (10 mins)

− 3 discussions (aim to do 15 mins each)

− One question (5 mins)

2

BB Intro – what are we talking about today?

 This is one hour for you to step out of “everyday” and think big (part of your role

as a CEO)

 ‘Her’ expectations have never been higher… our customers are very informed

 … but what is now possible, is also much greater (Moore’s Law)

 This is broad, across a number of different areas from customer facing to purely

operational

o Much more than just online shopping, or being ‘multi-channel’

 I certainly don’t have the answers to how we use technology to our advantage…

but we need to determine what’s possible, what we should do and when

I think we all

“Re tailers relying on earlier formats either adapt or die out

know this… but

as the new ones pull volume from their stores and make

what are we

the remaining volume less profitable.” –

doing about

Harvard Business Review, 2011

it?

3

DISCUSSION POINT 1

Based on the pre-reading report shared,

what is one specific action you are going to

take in your brand?

4

DISCUSSION POINT 2

How can we better leverage the technology

and data that we have today, that our

systems are already producing or

capable of producing?

5

DISCUSSION POINT 3

If computer power is free what technology

would we need and implement? and how

could you work it to your advantage?

6

7