SOURCE: 2015.10.07 HFT_CEO Role in Product_Oct 2015 RESPONSES.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.10 HFT - CEO Role in Product
TOPIC: Product Innovation and Retail Improvement
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for innovating product design and materials, improving in-store merchandising, and revitalizing the retail team to drive performance.
KEYWORDS: product innovation, retail strategy, team revitalization
---

innovation comes from looking outside the existing supplier base. These new suppliers

offer a step up in design & materials for our volume categories. We will need to manage

their introduction carefully so as to not alienate existing customers with too much

change too quickly. We also need to have the way we merchandise in store improve to

properly showcase these new goods or the additional effort will be wasted. We need to

bring our store team members along for the journey by explaining our plans to lift the

offer.

B) Teams – As dusk’s support centre moves to Sydney in January, we are hiring new teams

in key departments. While presenting many challenges, it also represents a golden

opportunity to lift skill sets in critical areas. By selecting a mix of experienced leaders and

highly skilled, yet younger team members, dusk has the opportunity to have a

revitalised team ready to lift our performance in Product, Planning & consumer

communications in store and digitally.

2. Ask your Head of Product/Merchandise (or equivalent) to define “innovation” and send

through their response (no editing allowed)

"For me, innovation is being completely comfortable with the unknown - in fact, it’s the most exciting

part of being a creative. I believe that innovation is when pure creativity & timing come together

seamlessly resulting in a design, product or service that delivers. Designers love nothing more than to

solve a need & impress their customer. Innovation in product design is about having the courage to

take your product from ideation to adoration & then beyond. Innovative designers possess the ability

to visualise concepts & then ultimately build products that work. It’s often a very instinctual process

which is why it can make a lot of businesses uncomfortable along the way. We are trusting in an

intangible vision - and for a designer that’s our whole reason for getting out of bed everyday, it’s the

most exhilarating part. Innovative thinking never stops moving, so when it collides with the perfect

timing - the result is priceless.“

3. List 3 ways that you can source more innovation through the way that you lead and or what

you do.

A) Data – starting from a project for portable terminal for our Xmas trade, we have begun

working with CBA on mining their transaction data. On the 1st pass this has provided

some useful insights into who our customer is which has challenged our previous

thinking. As an example, by discovering 36% of our credit & debit card users are < 30, by

far our biggest segment, we have begun to rethink the channels we use to communicate

with our customers. We are only at the early stages of using this resource.

B) Processes - Put in place disciplines to focus where we need to innovate. dusk is a

business of segments. As a result, at different times, we have some segments in different

phases; Launch, Growth, Maturity & Decline. By putting in place disciplines that help

focus where we need to change and innovate, the business can focus the team on those

areas needing change. The process also helps focus Product developers on data. The

best lesson to impart to the team is to plan product updates when categories are still

growing and not wait until maturity & decline. My challenge with a new team in an

established business is to lead by example and provide a balance between new ideas and

fresh approaches while keeping true to the brand, its customers and team members.

C) Customer > Team member feedback - Drawing directly from the ZARA chapters, it

highlighted just how important it is to keep store feedback channels open and for us to

go searching for what our customers are telling our teams at our stores. Small steps have

been made of late. A recent example would be the new dusk rewards relaunch in

September. The mechanics were influenced by customer feedback given to us over a

series of VIP events for Xmas & Mother’s Day. These regular & loyal customers were

consistent in their +’s & -‘s regarding our previous scheme and what they wanted. It was

invaluable.

GEORGE WAHBY (Bras N Things)

1. Please share 2 examples of how you are sourcing innovation from across your brand

 We have recently launched the Grand Innovation challenge that Brett has set for us.

 Factory visits I find are a great way to sniff out new ideas. As a result of the last visit we

have been invited by Bogart to get access to their innovation team and we have the first

visit at our offices in November where they will share ideas they have been working on

and have a brain storming session following store visits.

2. Ask your Head of Product/Merchandise (or equivalent) to define “innovation” and send

through their response (no editing allowed)

Rachel Underwood: “My definition of Innovation is a new product to the business that has a

unique selling point - whether within our stores or to the market.”

3. List 3 ways that you can source more innovation through the way that you lead and or what

you do

 Listen, listen and observe, retail team, customers in store, DC and support team with an

open mind, have the attitude that no idea is a silly idea.

 When doing store visits or even on recent holidays in USA constantly sent pictures and

ideas to the product team via photo sharing to constantly get the team thinking of new

ideas or initiatives. Also sets the mind set for the team that we should always be looking

for ideas and better ways of doing things. I also follow Fashion bloggers on Instagram

and use that in our big ideas days’ pre range or take copies and send it to product

designers.

 Encourage constant feedback and always challenging current status quo with the team

even if you provide very unrealistic or farfetched ideas to expand the thinking when