SOURCE: 2015 BBRC_Knowledge Sharing.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Uncategorized
SUMMARY: Could not generate summary
KEYWORDS: 
---

BBRC Internal Memo - DRAFT FOR DISCUSSION

“BBRC Knowledge Sharing Week” – what might it look like?

Background

A topic which Brett raised after his trip to Harvard to discuss with the CEOs was “How do we share knowledge?” across BBRC, and more importantly how do we get better at this. There are also a number of other thoughts that Brett raised post Harvard on this theme, these are:

We must show how learning gets put into practice

We must share the gems that make BBRC successful

We should release a “What I learned at Harvard” article, like “What I learned at Wal-Mart”

A potential way to address this is through a “Knowledge Sharing Week”. The aim of the week would be to firstly highlight to all team members that we do share knowledge, we believe in development and our senior leaders want to mentor and coach, and secondly actually then share some knowledge, i.e. specific content events at each business, for people to learn.

By doing it in 1 week, as opposed to a series of smaller, e-mails, calls or bulletin articles, is that it is an opportunity to create something bigger and impact more people. We can generate buzz, and get teams engaged, excited and sharing knowledge. We can both share knowledge itself, and upskill our teams in the process, but also continue to ensure BBRC is seen as an innovative and relevant place to work.

Suggested Format

Please see below for a suggested format of how we could launch, build and execute on this.

IMPORTANT NOTE: This is absolutely not going to be something that “gets in the way” of ordinary business for 1 entire week. Instead, as you will see from the format above, everyone will be invited to view 3 webcasts (each 60 minutes long), participate in 1 half-day session OR 2 or 3 one-hour sessions (the CEOs can decide how much they actually have on at each business) over the course of the week. After the week, they will be asked to write a short report as outlined above.

The whole concept must be pragmatic and time efficient to get support from the CEOs and team members. It is estimated that total time taken per support office team member will be 8 to 10 hours for those who are fully engaged, attending all sessions available to them. Rather than being a full-on week, it is just about coordinating timing of a few different things, so that it overall has more impact.

BBRC Round Table participants

If we decide this is something we want to do, then we can mix and match from the list of 18 on the following page for each of the 3 x 60 minute “Round Table/Panel” sessions.

Recommendation is no more than 5 speakers on each panel (so we are targeting a total of 15), and it can include former BBRC team members. Brett to decide whether to be part of all panels or not.

Example screenshot of webpage for non-Sydney team members

Non-Sydney participants would access a website, e.g. www.bbrcknowledge.com which would be a simple page, they would have a password and log in to the Webcast as per the below. Any slides or materials could also be made available on this web page. They can watch but not participate. It is the same technology that listed companies use for investor relations presentations and AGMs.

Costs

There are different webcast providers who will be able to set this up for us as part of their standard services, e.g. BRR Media, ChorusCall, and Staging Connections. We can get quotes from 3 providers.

Branding and tone

The tone of this should be innovative, on-trend and exciting (we won’t be calling it “Knowledge Sharing Week”, but will have to come up with a more engaging name, e.g. “BBRC.X”).

DECISION TO AT LEAST DISCUSS IT WITH THE CEOs NEEDS TO BE MADE BY MONDAY 13TH APRIL – SO IT CAN BE INCLUDED AS PART OF THE PRE-READ E-MAIL FOR 27th MAY “HIGH FOCUS TOPIC” SESSION. Please advise.