SOURCE: 2015.02.09_BBRC Succession Planning HFT.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.02 HFT - Succession Planning
TOPIC: Succession Planning
SUMMARY: This document discusses the importance of succession planning, the process to implement it, and how to flow it through the organization.
KEYWORDS: succession planning, talent development, leadership transition, organizational resilience, high-potential employees
---

BBRC High Focus Topic series

Succession Planning

February 2015

It’s about Her, Always!

1

What is “Succession Planning”?

 Introducing the “High Focus Topic” series (replacing the QMR)

 However secure you may feel – there will always be turnover

 In its simplest form, it is the process of knowing who will take someone’s

job if they leave tomorrow… (including CEOs)

 Meaningful Succession Planning can help mitigate disruption when it

inevitably occurs

 It has a broader purpose than it’s name suggests

 Highlights opportunities to develop high potential individuals and skill

gaps

 If done properly, and over time, your businesses are more likely to

“harness the internal knowledge” that is available, rather than look to

outsiders (Bower, 2007) – cheaper and more effective outcomes

2

Why does it matter?

 Being “mentally prepared” – reducing disruption when there is turnover

 Protects our future

 Helps identify who are the high performers adding value… and those

who are not

 Identifies development gaps (“X could do this job if they know how to…”)

 Try and give successors more responsibility progressively, enabling

testing of their suitability over a longer period of time (and reduced

disruption)

 Get team members performing “above” their job description… “held

accountable to learn and to deliver” (Bower, 2007)

 Can be used to highlight what behaviour leads to success and build

culture

3

What is the process to use?

Consider everyone…

Continue to build their

High Performers

experience and keep them

Ready to succeed

engaged (mentor)

List out your

Continue to

Identify skills gaps – focus

direct reports, Potentials

most of development time monitor and

and their risk Might fill the gaps

and effort here (develop) evaluate, e.g.

of leaving

are the

“Potentials”

moving up?

The Rest

Assess whether they have

Use the

May be performing

leadership gap a future with the business

template acceptably in current – what value are they

provided

role, but displaying actually adding?

(up or out)

limited potential

Keep it SIMPLE and REALISTIC

4

How to flow it through the organisation?

 Ask your direct reports to do it for their teams and present it to you in

the next month

 Subsequently have it something that is reviewed every 6 months and

put it in calendars automatically

 The best successor may not be the most obvious direct report

 This is not just an HR exercise

— They can create tools and facilitate, but it is up to the business itself

5

Using the template…

List the most

important roles

that matter to

your business

Have this completed and be prepared to use it

6

DISCUSSION

How prepared is your organisation to have

Succession Planning in place? What

challenges do you face?

7

Summary and next steps

 Succession Planning is best practice and part of what we do at BBRC

 It is valuable in minimising disruption in times of team turnover

 It encourages a high performance culture and continuous

improvement

 All businesses should have plans in place which are reviewed on a 6

monthly basis

 Please complete the CEO leadership gaps template and send it to me

(if you haven’t already done so)

 Ask your direct reports to complete them, and send them to you

Next BBRC High Focus Topic: Budgeting (1st April)

8

9