SOURCE: 2015.10.07 HFT_CEO Role in Product_Oct 2015 RESPONSES.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.10 HFT - CEO Role in Product
TOPIC: Product Innovation and Feedback
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for sourcing innovation, such as encouraging constant feedback, challenging the status quo, and learning from other retailers.
KEYWORDS: product innovation, feedback, status quo
---

and use that in our big ideas days’ pre range or take copies and send it to product

designers.

 Encourage constant feedback and always challenging current status quo with the team

even if you provide very unrealistic or farfetched ideas to expand the thinking when

faced with business challenges/ issues or doing after action reviews.

SHANE FALLSCHEER / PAUL GROSMANN (Lovisa)

1. Please share 2 examples of how you are sourcing innovation from across your brand

 Time in stores: Every member of buying team (from most senior to junior) has to spend

minimum ½ day per month working in store and do report afterwards on learnings they

took away whether it be product, customer reactions, execution etc. Additionally during

our last workout we set expectations on every department head and their direct reports

on how much time they should be spending in stores from merch planning, VM,

warehouse to IT (i.e., x number of store visits per week)

 Innovation challenge: Lovisa has taken the BBRC Innovation challenge to a brand specific

level and currently running a Lovisa innovation challenge with trip to Maldives.

 Product partnerships: We have product partnerships with DCK UK and DCK Canada

sharing product samples and sales results

 Tell Shane: As discussed during last meet – the tell shane initiative has been great

success and is strong source for capturing initiatives to help us improve customer

experience

2. Ask your Head of Product/Merchandise (or equivalent) to define “innovation” and send

through their response (no editing allowed)

ANDREA HAYNES

INNOVATION to me means change and differentiation to what we are doing now in order to diversify our

customers’ experience. Not being predictable.

This can be across a number of areas

 Product - what it’s made from and how we make it

 Presentation – how we present the product to our customer – packaging, display, product

information

 Offer of the product – how to buy it, eg: a ‘get the total look for $40’

 Experience – eg: ‘build your own stack pack’

3. List 3 ways that you can source more innovation through the way that you lead and or what

you do

 As a leader challenging the team and asking the questions during meetings / one on one / to

ourselves - why we do this this way? Can it be done differently? And challenging whether we can

do more (the Ortega response ‘people may not do that, but I intend to’)

 Measuring performance and progress (what we measure we improve). We have started

commenced our weekly management meeting with each department head reporting on progress

against their key KPIs. This will be good opportunity to challenge questions above

 Take time to learn from other successful retailers. We’re finding particularly as we expand into

unknown territories how open other non-direct competitors are to sharing what they do and

how they do it. Cotton have been really helpful in their logistics and distribution, Mango with

international partnerships and learning through interview process of prospective recruits. Is

surprising how much people willing to disclose when you ask the question – we should take the

time department by department to do this properly