SOURCE: 22 Tiny Retailing Tidbits_Tigert.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses best practices and principles for achieving high-performing retail businesses, including the importance of being market-driven, strategic planning, and employee recruitment.
KEYWORDS: retail strategy, competitive advantage, market-driven, strategic planning, employee recruitment
---

why new wave retailers, with a significant “competitive advantage", will attack any

20.

al,

22.

market. That is why there is no such animal as an overstored market (see tidbit

#1).

The Best. Zara, Best Buy, Wal*Mart, Auto Zone, Walgreen's

Retailing executives who troop off to seminars (either inside or outside the

company) should be compelled to do so only if:

a) They will come home with some immediately useful analytical

tools....or,

b) They will come home with some immediately actionable strategic or

tactical alternatives....or,

c) They will come home with the knowledge that they have finally

learned:

i. how to be a market driven company...or,

ii. how to do strategic market planning...or,

d) They will come home better equipped to manage the "human factor"

in their organization...or,

e) All of the above.

Given the sense of urgency for retailing executives to improve retailer

performance, any other Seminar objectives would be redundant.

It is not possible to train employees to provide friendly, courteous service.

Therefore, there is only one opportunity to generate employees with this critical

skill... in the recruitment/selection process.

The Best: Publix, Nordstrom, Wal*Mart, Zara

The above twenty-one tiny tidbits represent the basic principles by which retailers

achieve high yield results. There are only a handful of them that put it all together.

Food: Wegman’s

Department: Upscale: Nordstrom

Department: Middle: J.C. Penney

Discount Department Store: Wal*Mart

Category Killer: Home: Bed, Bath, & Beyond

Warehouse Club: Costco

Specialty Fashion: Zara

Specialty Hardgoods: Best Buy

Specialty Other: Auto Zone

Franchise: McDonald's

Hypermarket; Meijer

Home Improvement: Lowe's

Office Supply Superstore: Staples

Family Clothing Stores: Kohl’s

Drugstores: Walgreen’s

Convenience store/gasoline: Quick trip

Off-Price: TIX

Dollar Stores: Dollar General