SOURCE: 22 Tiny Retailing Tidbits_Tigert.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Performance Metrics
SUMMARY: The text discusses key retail performance metrics and strategies, highlighting successful retailers that focus on maximizing GMROF, GMROL, and GMROI.
KEYWORDS: retail performance, GMROI, GMROF, GMROL, retail strategies
---

TIGERT'S TWENTY-TWO TINY RETAILING TIDBITS

There is no such thing as an "overstored market". There are only understored

and/or undermanaged markets.

The Best: Wal*Mart Kohl’s, Tesco, Zara, H & M

The retailing organization that fails to incorporate the entry level position (sales

associate) into the contingent career paths of the organization is doomed to

mediocre or even failing performance.

The Best. Nordstrom, Publix, HEB

The firm that fails to build a SKU level decision making process into its

management information system will never discover which 80 percent of its total

SKU's represent break-even or loss sales levels.

The Best: B & Q, Tesco, Wal*Mart, Walgreen’s

The retailer that fails to build a tracking/monitoring system for evaluation of

consumer and competitive trends in its markets will find out too late that it's in

trouble.

The Best: Wal*Mart, Petsmart, Best Buy

The New Centurions (the power retailers) have quickly discovered that "rent" has

become a trivial issue in the income statement. As a consequence, it almost always

pays to "overpay" for the best location and it almost never pays to "underpay" for

the secondary location.

The Best: Lowe’s, Costco, Meijer, Kohl’s

Expansion into a foreign market without comprehensive analysis of both consumer

and competitive environments almost certainly ensures failure in round one of

entry.

The Best: Wal*Mart, Tescor, Zara, H &M

Market changes over short time periods are so small as to be imperceptible to

retailing executives, but changes over the end points are devastating.

The Worst: , Kmart/Sears, Linens & Things

The retailing organization that fails to insist that its senior executives spend at

least a few days per month on the sales floor is likely to lose sight of the customer

environment and the "retail" operation.

The Best. Wal*Mart, Lowe’s, Walgreen’s

10,

11.

12.

13.

The three most useful measurements of the performance and productivity of a

retailer are:

a. GMROI......Gross Margin Return On Inventory Investment

b. GMROE.....Gross Margin Per Square Foot Of Gross Leasable Area

c. GMROL.....Gross Margin Per Full Time Equivalent (FTE) Employee

GMROI can be measured at corporate, store, department, class, fine line class and

SKU levels. GMROF is useful at corporate, store and departmental levels. GMROL

should similarly be measured at the same three levels. Power retailers focus on

maximizing GMROF and NMROF (net margin per square foot).

Service-driven retailers usually exhibit relatively low GMROL & GMROI ratios but a

well above average GMROF ratio and higher pre-tax profit per square foot

compared to retailers with poor service profiles.

The Best. Nordstrom, Wal*Mart, L.L. Bean, Best Buy

Among the six visible assortment strategies being followed by retailers today

(convenience, competitive, opportunistic, power, velocity, and differentiated), the

latter three offer the greatest opportunity for high yield results.

The Best: Zara, Lowe’s, Costco, Auto Zone, Meijer, Bed, Bath and Beyond,

Victoria's Secret, Best Buy

Superstore operators, who use a mix of assortment strategies across different

departments in the same store (primarily velocity and power assortments), are

wreaking havoc across retail sectors. They understand where consumers do and

do not want to shop across broad assortments.

The Best: Wegman’s, Lowe’s, Wal*Mart, Publix, Walgreen’s, Tesco

When stores and restaurants across the country spend massive sums of money

advertising for new entry-level personnel...and nobody shows up to apply for the

jobs...you know the country is at full employment. There are three solutions to the

problem: a) change the nature of the entry-level position; b) convert to a franchised

(entrepreneurial) operation; or, c) convert to a total self-service operation.

The Best: 1. Change the job Nordstrom

2. Franchise McDonald's, Shopper's Drug Mart,

Citgo

3. Self-Service The banks (ATM Machines), Quick

Trip

14.

15.

16,

17.

18.

19.

Retail organizations that have, within their buying/merchandising personnel,

individuals who have never sold on the floor, probably do not understand the

marketing concept or the role of "selling" in their organizations.

The Worst. Companies that keep parachuting senior managers into the

organization from outside.

Retailers who view store design as an expense, rather than as an investment in

competitive advantage, probably do not understand the consumer store choice

process for their retail sector.

The Best: Target, Nordstrom, Chico's, Restoration Hardware,

Zara, H&M

There may be a retail sector for which price/value leadership is not one of the two

most important determinants of store choice....1 just haven't found it yet.

The Best. Wal*Mart, Dollar General, Kohl’s, Costco, Best Buy

Acquisition strategy (domestic or foreign) is one of the least developed talents of

retailing executives. In general, it almost always pays to “overpay” for a star and it

almost never pays to “underpay" for a dog. It also pays to give the acquired

management team a significant portion of the stock in the new merged entity.

The Best.’ Wal*Mart, Carrefour, Tesco

Retailers with above average performance in their retail sector tend to exhibit all or

most of the following characteristics (relative to other retailers in the same sector):

a) Higher inventory per square foot (merchandise intensity).

b) More full-time equivalent (FTE) employees per 1,000 square feet

(service intensity).

c) Higher advertising per square foot (promotional advantage).

d) Higher GMROI (better margin/inventory management).

e) Higher GMROF (better space productivity).

f) Lower fixed costs as a percentage of sales (volume driven).

g) A stronger consumer image on quality and value.

The Best. Lowe's, Publix, Wegman’s, Wal*Mart, Best Buy

The analysis of differences in performance between high and low yield retailers

leads to the following conclusions:

a) Eighty percent of the variance can be explained by examining how

retailers run the business

(the controllables) - see tidbit #18.

b) Ten percent of the variance can be explained by differences in

market demographics.

c) Ten percent of the variance can be explained by differences in

competitive intensity.

The “uncontrollables” (b and c above) are never deterrents to market entry. That is

why new wave retailers, with a significant “competitive advantage", will attack any

20.

al,

22.

market. That is why there is no such animal as an overstored market (see tidbit

#1).

The Best. Zara, Best Buy, Wal*Mart, Auto Zone, Walgreen's