SOURCE: 5 YPO HBS Protect  Pivot.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Agile Leadership and Enterprise
SUMMARY: The text discusses how an agile leadership team can create an operating system for an agile enterprise, balancing traditional duties with agile initiatives.
KEYWORDS: agile leadership, agile enterprise, ambidextrous organization, customer intimacy, pivot
---

[Document: 5 YPO HBS Protect  Pivot.pdf]

will, over time, create an operating system for an agile enterprise.xviii

An agile leadership team includes some or all executive team members. They do not dedicate all

of their time to a single, specific initiative, as that would just not be possible. They must balance

establishing an agile enterprise with the more traditional duties of their roles. As such, they act as sponsors

of the specific initiatives that are most closely connected to their areas of expertise, letting assigned

“initiative owners” take full-time responsibility for their projects. The central project of any agile

leadership team is creating an agile enterprise in which all other initiatives are undertaken. Rigby, Elk and

Berez state:

An agile leadership team views development of the agile system as an agile initiative—in

fact, as the most vital of all agile initiatives. Senior executives learn to manage the transition as

an agile team. They view it as a continuous improvement program, not as a project with

predictable end points or fixed completion dates. They realize that going too slowly may fail to

achieve escape velocity, and that changing too fast will create chaos. So they sequence and

balance all the components, recognize the value of role-modeling agile behaviors, and appreciate

that how they make decisions will be as important as the decisions themselves.xix

In time, your agile leadership team will come to focus considerably more on strategy and less on

operations management.xx A greater focus on innovation, collaboration and strategy will help guide your

company on how and when to pivot.

Generate Insights about Where to Pivot

In addition to cultivating the right types of teams and company culture that will allow your

company to pivot, you must look externally to understand what types of pivots would be well received in

the market. There are many ways to collect helpful insights on your customers’ needs and therefore find

opportunities to serve them. You can analyze and then leverage the customer data your company already

has. You can turn to the younger members of your organization, who are more likely to work on the

frontlines in customer-facing roles, to gather their understanding of customers’ needs. Of course, you can

also reach out to customers directly to ask how you can best help them through this challenging time. This

is the time to practice customer intimacy, not only customer centricity.

Protect and Pivot=Exploit and Explore

Another way to think about “protecting and pivoting” is “exploiting and exploring”. Exploiting

opportunities to make incremental improvements to existing operations while also exploring future

possibilities for innovations and solutions is the hallmark of an ambidextrous organization. In an

ambidextrous organization, new, exploratory units are separate from traditional, exploitative ones. This

allows the new units to create processes and procedures that enable their creative goals. They are not

beholden to the traditional way of doing things. Companies then compensate for this separation with

6

integration at the senior management level, ensuring alignment at the top. As Charles A. O’Reilly III and

Michael L. Tushman explain:

The structure of ambidextrous organizations allows cross-fertilization among units while

preventing cross-contamination. The tight coordination at the managerial level enables the

fledgling units to share important resources from the traditional units—cash, talent, expertise,

customers, and so on—but the organizational separation ensures that the new units’ distinctive

processes, structures, and cultures are not overwhelmed by the forces of “business as usual.” At

the same time, the established units are shielded from the distractions of launching new

businesses; they can continue to focus all their attention and energy on refining their operations,

improving their products, and serving their customers.xxi

In order for an ambidextrous organization to be successful, ideally leaders themselves should be

ambidextrous, meaning they can attend to the needs of different kinds of businesses. Also a key to

success, leaders must consistently and clearly communication a vision for the company that allows

exploitation and exploration to exist in harmony with one another.xxii The figure below for a summary of

the different requirements of the two kinds of businesses found within an ambidextrous organization.

Source: O’Reilly III, Charles A. and Michael L. Tushman. “The Ambidextrous Organization.” HBR.org. April

2004 issue. https://hbr.org/2004/04/the-ambidextrous-organization, accessed May 14, 2020.

The COVID-19 outbreak has created a period of high stress for individuals and companies alike. It

is also, however, an opportunity to examine current business practices in order to increase long-term

operational efficiency and competitiveness, as well as to innovate for the sake of surviving now and

thriving later. It is a time to protect the core business and pivot to new opportunities, or, in other words,

to exploit and explore. To achieve your goals, consider leveraging cross-functional teams, employing

creative exercises, adjusting expectations and deliverables, supporting an agile enterprise and generating

7

customer insights. As Saenz and O’Keeffe claim, “Bold leadership teams are beginning to imagine this

[post-pandemic] new world now and already adjusting their strategies and operating models. At this

moment, teams want to hear four messages: our people are safe, our business is protected, we will

recover stronger, and we will redefine the new world for our industry.”xxiii The gravity of the challenges

facing businesses right now is not be to understated, but shifting perspective to see what opportunities

are also presenting themselves will help companies to see another day and eventually adapt to the reality

of the post-pandemic world, despite all its uncertainties.

Endnotes

i Berinato, Scott. “That Discomfort You’re Feeling is Grief.” HBR.org. March 23, 2020.

https://hbr.org/2020/03/that-discomfort-youre-feeling-is-grief, accessed May 14, 2020.

ii Saenz, Hernan and Dunigan O’Keeffe. Covid-19: Protect, Recover and Retool.” Bain.com. April 10, 2020.

https://www.bain.com/insights/covid-19-protect-recover-and-retool/, accessed May 14, 2020.

iii Nowitzki, Dirk. Live address to executive education class at Harvard Business School. November 6, 2020.

iv Danaher. “The Danaher Story.” https://www.danaher.com/who-we-are/danaher-story, accessed May 14, 2020.

v Toyota. “Toyota Production System.” https://global.toyota/en/company/vision-and-philosophy/production-

system/, accessed May 14, 2020.

vi Toyota. “Toyota Production System.” https://global.toyota/en/company/vision-and-philosophy/production-

system/, accessed May 14, 2020.

vii Danaher. “Danaher Business System.” https://www.danaher.com/how-we-work/danaher-business-system,

accessed May 14, 2020.

viii Danaher. “Danaher Business System.” https://www.danaher.com/how-we-work/danaher-business-system,

accessed May 14, 2020.