SOURCE: 5 YPO HBS Protect  Pivot.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Business Strategies and Efficiency
SUMMARY: The text discusses how companies are adapting to the pandemic by prioritizing efficiency, pivoting to new opportunities, and making deeper changes to their business models.
KEYWORDS: business efficiency, pandemic response, business model transformation
---

[Document: 5 YPO HBS Protect  Pivot.pdf]

even if you are not prioritizing it, your competition is. In addition, your competition may also be operating

with 10-20% less real estate needs post-pandemic due to a long-term increase in remote work. Do not be

satisfied until you achieve greater efficiency, as it will benefit your organization now and after the crisis

has subsided.

Pivot to New Opportunities

Some companies have pivoted immediately to address the crisis, motivated by the need to

generate new revenue streams as well as public spirit, as reported on NPR’s “The Indicator on Planet

Money”:

Some companies have reacted [to the spread of coronavirus] by laying off staff and closing their

doors, hunkering down and waiting for the storm to pass. Others have decided to pivot. They've

come up with innovative ideas of how to retool or reconfigure their operations, to keep their

doors open and their employees working. Some are big, like General Motors, a car company that's

making ventilators. Others are small, mom-and-pop restaurants that are making up fruit-and-

vegetable boxes for people and delivering them door-to-door.xii

General Motors is not the only big company stepping up to this challenge. For example, LVHM, a French

multinational corporation and conglomerate specializing in luxury goods, has announced it will cease the

production of perfumes in some of its factories in order to make hand sanitizer,xiii and Nike has stated that

it will start producing PPE (personal protective equipment) for healthcare workers.xiv These responses may

be focused on the immediate emergency of the pandemic with the idea of returning to business-as-usual

at some point. Other companies are making deeper changes that are changing their business-as-usual

models for good.

4

Take two examples from the United Kingdom. Marco Castelanelli, founder of the two-year-old

company Club Vino, has made one such pivot. The company had been hosting themed wine tastings, often

in prestigious locations, but when the COVID-19 outbreak hit and social gatherings were no longer

permitted, Castelanelli had to rethink the business. He decided to promote the idea of wine tastings from

home. Customers can order a tasting package from the company website, including the wine, tasting

notes and a link to a video that would essentially serve as a virtual tasting. As Castelanelli explained to

Forbes.com, “This is a more scalable business and complements perfectly the physical business we have

built so far.”xv Another example is MyoMaster, a company that specializes in recovery products and

knowledge for athletes. Founded by couple Joe Gray and Lottie Whyte, MyoMaster generated revenue by

selling at sporting events and to gyms. After the COVID-19 outbreak, however, when sporting events were

cancelled and gyms were forced to close, they pivoted to ecommerce and started focusing on home

workouts. As Whyte explained to Forbes.com, “What we used to sell in a month, we are now selling online

in a single day. There are real opportunities out there for brands that can sell online and provide people

with products that can bring them joy at home.”xvi In both cases, these companies were forced to leverage

ecommerce in unexpected ways in order to survive the COVID-19 outbreak, but in the end these changes

led to a long-term revision of their business models, which will continue to add value after the crisis

subsides. Saenz and O’Keeffe state, “Leading companies are reallocating resources to pockets of current

and future growth, such as e-commerce, to protect against revenue loss.”xvii This exactly what Club Vino

and MyoMaster have done. Whether pivoting for the short-term or the long-term, the three practices

below might help your company to think through its pivot.

Again, Look to Cross-Functional Teams

Again, a cross-functional team assigned to this challenge would be one practice to consider. Ask

this team, with their diversity of experiences and perspectives, to focus on what opportunities exist

outside the core business. Ask them to think about new revenue streams for the short-term and the long-

term. Challenge them to think outside the box. You may also want to consider monitoring the team for

burnout, given the intensity of their work, and perhaps rotating people off and on the team in

predetermined intervals. This could both prevent burnout and provide a pipeline of fresh perspectives.

Create an Agile Enterprise from the Top Down

We recommend building agile leadership teams to support an agile enterprise. Building such an

enterprise means striking a balance between standardizing operations and pursuing innovations. Bain &

Company’s Darrell Rigby, Sarah Elk and Steve Berez elaborate on the role of the agile leadership team:

To find the optimal balance, the agile leadership team typically begins by creating new

metrics to help determine how agile the company is, how agile it should be, whether it is moving

in the right direction at the right speed, and which constraints are impeding progress. Surveys of

internal and external stakeholders to obtain their subjective views of business processes

combined with objective measures—such as innovation cycle times, flow efficiency (work time

versus wait time), and market share changes—are useful for determining the existing state of the

operating system components. The team then develops a sequenced list of activities aimed at

5

achieving an optimal balance for each component. The agile process forces leaders to get out of

their silos and work together as a multidisciplinary group, breaking through impediments and

pivoting when necessary. By rebalancing whichever of the components are out of alignment, they

will, over time, create an operating system for an agile enterprise.xviii

An agile leadership team includes some or all executive team members. They do not dedicate all

of their time to a single, specific initiative, as that would just not be possible. They must balance

establishing an agile enterprise with the more traditional duties of their roles. As such, they act as sponsors

of the specific initiatives that are most closely connected to their areas of expertise, letting assigned

“initiative owners” take full-time responsibility for their projects. The central project of any agile