SOURCE: 5 YPO HBS Protect  Pivot.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Business Continuity and Transformation
SUMMARY: The text discusses how business leaders can navigate the COVID-19 pandemic by protecting their core operations and pivoting to new opportunities for growth.
KEYWORDS: business continuity, crisis management, organizational transformation, strategic planning, COVID-19 response
---

[Document: 5 YPO HBS Protect  Pivot.pdf]

YPO HBS Presidents' Program 2020

Prof. Groysberg Covid Pandemic Extreme Leadership paper – 5

Protecting and Pivoting in the Age of COVID-19

Boris Groysberg & Katherine Connolly Baden

In the past few weeks, we have asked approximately 600 CEOs to share with us the most pressing

challenges that are keeping them awake at night in the midst of the global COVID-19 pandemic. A number

of challenges were submitted, from managing a remote workforce to making decisions in the face of vast

uncertainty. Not surprisingly, one significant challenge reported by many CEOs was how to position their

company to survive, or even thrive, during the pandemic and in the “new normal” that follows. As one

CEO said, “A fabricated or real crisis is an essential ingredient for effective change management, as an

existential threat breaks down many barriers to change. With such an unprecedented crisis, it is stretching

and breaking apart even the strongest teams. What do we need to do to view this terrible crisis as an

opportunity to pivot and make changes that will allow our organizations to survive beyond the crisis?”

Others are wondering if the crisis might contain opportunities: “How can we take advantage of COVID and

the bear market and think about emerging stronger than our competition at the end of this?” in the words

of one CEO.

Right now, because of the COVID-19 outbreak, we are all taking in vast amounts of new

information every day and adjusting to an entirely new set of behavioral habits. In addition, most of us

are dealing with unprecedented tasks and decisions on the job and in our personal lives. And we are all,

one way or another, grieving. According to David Kessler, author and grief expert, “The loss of normalcy;

the fear of economic toll; the loss of connection. This is hitting us and we’re grieving. Collectively. We are

not used to this kind of collective grief in the air.”i

Two critical questions, posed by Hernan Saenz and Dunigan O’Keeffe of Bain and Company, can

help organizational leaders frame their thoughts about how to survive in the present and position their

companies to thrive in the post-pandemic future—whatever that may look like:

• “How can we ride out the crisis to emerge stronger than others in our industry?”

• “How can the organization learn through this experience to win in a new world?”

Saenz and O’Keeffe explain, “To guide the decisions and actions that will answer those

questions—through the welter of competing demands, the sometimes chaotic conditions and the

paramount importance of doing the right thing—some leadership teams have committed themselves to

two guiding principles: act now to protect and run the business today, and plan now to retool the business

for the future.”ii

1

We encourage organizations to think of the two P’s: protect the core, and pivot to new

opportunities. In this paper, we provide a top-level overview of major topics and ideas relevant to each

concept. We hope you are interested in engaging in further research about any topics that resonate with

you and your company.

Protect the Core

Protecting the core is partially about becoming more and more effective and efficient in the

company’s core business. The focus is improvement, not exponential growth. Improvement is always

possible. Yes, it may be small, but even extremely small improvements can be worthwhile. Look at the

example of Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps, the most decorated Olympian in history, who continued to

practice, focusing on shaving milliseconds off his time. Phelps never stopped improving. Similarly, look at

the career of Dirk Nowitzski, the first European NBA MVP, who played for the NBA for an astonishing 21

years. Nowitzki refined his skills by breaking them down into their component parts and focusing intently

on the elements that needed improvement—not just practicing jump shots, but watching videos and

breaking down the movements and striving to improve, say, the precision of his positioning. As Nowitzki

described, “I was never satisfied... I wanted to get the max out of my talent, out of my potential. After the

season, I took a week or two weeks off and then I was back in the gym. Every summer, I played on the

national team to play at a high level and practice the stuff I worked on all summer. I then came back in

the winter a better player. I always saw myself as a guy who was evolving.”iii Stars practice, and they keep

practicing long after they are stars.

Organizations can also learn a great deal from the examples set by these world-class athletes,

who are never satisfied, even at the top of their games and seemingly at the peak of their performance.

Like Phelps and Nowitzki, two examples of organizations that excel at continuous improvement are

Toyota, a Japanese automotive manufacturer, and Danaher, a conglomerate with brands in diagnostics,

life sciences, and environmental and applied solutions.iv Toyota employs a system known as the Toyota

Production System (TPS), “a production system based on the philosophy of achieving the complete

elimination of all waste in pursuit of the most efficient methods.”v The production system is based on two

principles: automation with a human touch, and each process producing only what is needed for the next

process in a continuous flow. According to Toyota, “TPS and its approach to cost reduction are the

wellsprings of competitive strength and unique advantages for Toyota… Even today, all Toyota production

divisions are making improvements to TPS day-and-night to ensure its continued evolution.”vi Similarly,

Danaher has a system for achieving its goals called the Danaher Business System (DBS). The DBS “engine

drives the company through a never-ending cycle of change and improvement: exceptional people

develop outstanding plans and execute them using world-class tools to construct sustainable processes,

resulting in superior performance.”vii According to Danaher, “We use DBS to guide what we do, measure

how well we execute, and create options for doing even better—including improving DBS itself.”viii