SOURCE: 5 YPO HBS Protect  Pivot.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Process Improvement and Continuous Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses how companies can achieve greater efficiency and competitive advantage through continuous process improvement, leveraging cross-functional teams.
KEYWORDS: process improvement, continuous innovation, cross-functional teams, efficiency, competitive advantage
---

[Document: 5 YPO HBS Protect  Pivot.pdf]

wellsprings of competitive strength and unique advantages for Toyota… Even today, all Toyota production

divisions are making improvements to TPS day-and-night to ensure its continued evolution.”vi Similarly,

Danaher has a system for achieving its goals called the Danaher Business System (DBS). The DBS “engine

drives the company through a never-ending cycle of change and improvement: exceptional people

develop outstanding plans and execute them using world-class tools to construct sustainable processes,

resulting in superior performance.”vii According to Danaher, “We use DBS to guide what we do, measure

how well we execute, and create options for doing even better—including improving DBS itself.”viii

Cost cutting is inevitable in dire times, but the current crisis is an opportunity for an intense

questioning of processes—including in areas where your company already excels. We have seen that

companies can save 20-30% on costs by improving processes. In fact, we heard from two companies who

are considered gold standards in operational efficiency in their industries, and in examining and honing

2

their processes, they were still able to improve their efficiency by 10% and 15% respectively. Whenever

you think you’re done and your organization is running as efficiently as possible, think again. Whether it

be eliminating duplicate procedures or useless and cumbersome paperwork, there are always ways to

streamline your operations. There is no limit to continuous improvement and innovation. Below are three

suggestions for enabling continuous improvement in your company:

Call on Cross-Functional Teams to Help Solve Problems

In order to achieve greater efficiency, one best practice is to build a cross-functional team who

can interrogate your areas of excellence, asking questions such as: What is truly necessary? How are things

done? At the individual and company levels, how is time spent, and where are there opportunities to

make processes more efficient?

When managed well, cross-functional teams can add a great deal of value. As a first step, help the

team define and understand its common goal by empowering members to discover how a challenge

affects other functions beyond their own and the company as a whole. In other words, members need to

adjust their perspectives to encompass the needs of more than just their own function, which may be

easier for some people than others, in order to reach their goal. Next, help negotiate the allocation of

resources within the team, recognizing that some functions will contribute more to the team (at the very

least, in terms of people’s time) than others will and that some functions may see a bigger payoff than

others will if the team is successful. It is also important to remain flexible and recognize that the allocation

of resources may shift over time. A third consideration is that you or another leader may need to help

guide the team through concerns that become “sticking points”—it is important to keep the team

progressing toward their goal, but to properly address all concerns raised along the way.ix

Use the “Clean Sheet of Paper” Exercise to Think Creativity about Company Processes

Another best practice is to do the “clean sheet of paper” exercise with your executive team,

meaning to have conversations about how you would organize the operations of the company if you were

just starting out and there was no such thing as “but that’s always the way it’s been done”. As explained

by Team Strength, Inc.:

Start [the clean sheet of paper exercise] by questioning assumptions. The question is simple:

Why? Why do you do this? Why do you do things in this way? Just keep asking “why?” – every

subsequent “why?” will go deeper. Asking “why?” five times is a strategy pioneered by Toyota to

track down the root cause of mistakes. Consider the elements and processes are there for a

reason, and then try to understand it. When you thoroughly examine the assumptions behind

their current use, you will likely make surprising discoveries with a capacity for large changes.

When you get to the root cause, you are not only solving this symptom, but a whole family of

similar problems that did not –but very well might have– occurred.x

Perry Evans, President of ThriveHive, stated in the New York Times, “In any transformation I’ve seen, the

winner is always the one who takes out a clean sheet of paper and says, ‘This is how you would do it if

3

you didn’t have the drag of your traditional business.’”xi This exercise may greatly help illuminate

opportunities to improve effectiveness and efficiency.

Keep People Accountable and Adjust Their Deliverables

The COVID-19 outbreak presents us all with an unpresented amount of uncertainty. We do not

know how long the crisis will last, when and how restrictions on the public will be lifted, how customers

will behave in the aftermath, and how the once-familiar environments in which your company operated

will have been impacted for the long-term, if not permanently. As a result, it is nearly impossible to plan

for the next six months—there simply is not enough data and information to do so. Plans, and the

corresponding KPIs and other metrics that will empower your team to execute them, should be adjusted

to address the company’s immediate needs and short-term goals, and communicated continually. This

will enable you to hold people accountable for performance while ensuring that their limited energy and

processing capacity is being spent on truly mission-critical tasks.

Paying attention to your core business and the efficiency of your operations is critical because,

even if you are not prioritizing it, your competition is. In addition, your competition may also be operating

with 10-20% less real estate needs post-pandemic due to a long-term increase in remote work. Do not be

satisfied until you achieve greater efficiency, as it will benefit your organization now and after the crisis

has subsided.

Pivot to New Opportunities

Some companies have pivoted immediately to address the crisis, motivated by the need to

generate new revenue streams as well as public spirit, as reported on NPR’s “The Indicator on Planet

Money”: