SOURCE: 8 Secrets to building a bn business.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Building a Billion-Pound Business
SUMMARY: The author shares eight secrets he learned over 45 years of building successful businesses, aiming to inspire entrepreneurs to transform medium-sized businesses into large, sustainable ones.
KEYWORDS: entrepreneurship, business growth, business strategy, lessons learned, scaling a business
---

Secrets to

building a £billion

business

By Richard Harpin

Introduction

The lessons I learned can

transform your business

When all of my childhood friends were building Airfix

models, I was trying to build businesses. From the

moment I set up my first venture aged 14, through

to the seat-of-my-pants moment when I snatched

“This booklet is the

success from the jaws of failure with help from my

culmination of almost 45 first investor, all the way to the essential lessons I

learned as I expanded globally, I’ve been obsessed

years of business learning.

with how to build a better business.

Decades of hard work that

But this is not about me. It’s about you, and thousands

like you. If I can achieve this success, then I’m certain

gradually, year by year,

you can too. You just need a steer on what to do and

decision by decision, changed when, to hear from another entrepreneur about how

to make the transformation from good to great.

my working life in ways I could

I believe these are the eight secrets to building a

never have imagined.”

strong, large, sustainable business. They also happen

to be the eight things that I wish I’d know when I

started out. Armed with this advice, I’m certain I could

have avoided mistakes, been able to make decisions

with an extra level of certainty that I sometimes

needed, and that I’d have been able to develop

HomeServe that much faster.

Each rule or message has been specifically designed

to build on each other. You might find that only two

or three apply to you at this very moment and that’s

fine, use them as required. However, think of these

eight stages in order; one leads to the next.

1

Today, my passion is to inspire your success, to

turn medium-sized businesses into large ones by

Follow a NOT

following this simple step-by-step guide which

to do list 1 Copy and

reflects the smartest moves and silliest mistakes I’ve

pivot

8 ever made.

With my investment business, Growth Partner, I’m

ploughing millions of my own money into medium-

sized ventures that I feel certain can be turned into

far larger and more successful businesses. We’re

already in partnership with nine separate businesses

and are on the look-out for many more. And with

every entrepreneur I meet, every project I get involved

in, I’m constantly guided by these eight rules.

7 2 Get an

Evolution

investor At the end of each chapter, there are a few questions

not revolution

for you to answer. The idea is that you can use this

as a permanent guide as your business grows.

Whenever something comes into your head or you

Now find 3 6 Go global

stumble upon an insight that you want to use in

a coach with locals

or mentor some way, write it down, keep a note, build on my

advice so that it feels even more relevant and useful

to you.

These are the messages that I believe can inspire

5 Be a smarter

leader - hire a Britain’s entrepreneurs. We are a nation filled with

replacement success stories, men and women who’ve dreamed

big and turned ideas into thriving businesses. But

4

we’re also a nation that, I believe, is not achieving its

Bricks and full potential.

clicks and

paper It’s why I’ve been lobbying the Government to create

policies that focus on doubling the number of large

UK companies from 7,700 to over 15,000 by supporting

2 3

medium-sized enterprises, of which there are around

1

111,500 in the UK. Typically, the latter employ 25-249

people. It’s an ambition that I believe can transform

our economy.

These are testing times in business and yet the Copy and pivot

opportunities for success are greater than ever.

Sometimes the missing ingredient is that nugget of

advice that shifts your thinking and helps you make

that decision which will change your life – and your

business – for ever. Everyone is always in a rush to be the first. That’s

certainly true if you want to shape the business

That’s what you’ll find inside these pages. Pieces

landscape. But if you want to change the game,

of advice, stories of success and failure, personal

sometimes it helps to be second. Watch what’s

testimonies and reflections that I’m certain can help

happening, get a better understanding of where

you achieve the same kind of success I have had.

strengths and weaknesses lie, what opportunities are

around the corner.

Thirty years ago, Jeremy Middleton and I invested

£50,000 of our own money in setting up HomeServe.

Our natural instincts are sometimes to admire a

We started with the wrong business model and very

success story and conclude that if only we’d thought

nearly didn’t make it. What I learned between then

of it first. After all, why crowd into a space that’s

and when I sold the company recently for £4.1 billion

already controlled by someone else? Except that

is that business is not that complicated.

control is an illusion.

The following pages will show you why. It’s the

If Mark Zuckerberg had thought like that, we’d still

opposite to the thousands of business books out

have MySpace and not Facebook. Blockbuster had

there that unnecessarily complicate what we do.

the market sewn up…until Netflix decided it had

Finding the opportunity to win – and win big – is

a better way of doing things. One of the reasons

simpler than you might think.

disrupters succeed is that they’re first. But second-

movers have the advantage of watching, learning,

I hope these insights inspire you just as they continue

becoming more aware of the realities of a business

to inspire me every day, and that they’ll become your

situation. Then they can either correct what’s already

secrets to building a billion-pound business. So let’s

happened or adapt it for their own purposes.

get started…

4 5