SOURCE: A Little Story About A Big Impact_Jen_2000.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture
TOPIC: Brand Awareness and Consumer Perception
SUMMARY: The story describes how the Bras 'n Things brand has made a significant impact on consumer perception and language, inspiring pride in a former employee.
KEYWORDS: brand awareness, consumer perception, brand impact, language change, employee pride
---

a Page 1 of Z {

Brett Blundy

From: Aileen & Jenny [farmgals@webfront.net.au)

Sent: Wednesday, 28 June 2000 22:42

To: Brett Blundy

Subject: A Little Story about a BIG Impact!

Wakey Wakey, don't ever forget about Blakey!

As always I miss the family terribly, but the country has a strong hold on my soul...my heart on the other hand has no

idea what it is doing, where it should be or who it should be doing it with. In my next life I'm coming back as a

bloke! Following is a little story that you might find interesting. It certainly stirred the ashes of pride within me for

having been part of something powerful, significant and influential.

T'll set the scene:

June long weekend-a BIG Wine & Food promotional/festival weekend in downtown Griffith (a tiny dot of a town in

South-western NSW). There I was, former city-slicker and grundies buyer, rolling up pieces of salami to put on

antipasto food platters for customers to enjoy whilst tasting local wines. We (my B &B.....boss & boyfriend) were

doing gourmet food tastings to promote our product at one of the local wineries.

It was an absolutely gorgeous Spring day, perfect for kicking back with friends in the sun, sipping on some wine and

talking about the ways of the world. In front of me were two couples doing just that. One lot were locals and the

other were friends from up Ballina NSW way. I heard the topic of 'underwear' come up and the old-buyer in me

instantly pricked up her ears and listened in. They were talking about G-Strings and my heart started to race and to

my absolute gob-smacked pleasurable surprise the woman from Griffith said to the others-

"Well you know, they're not called g-strings anymore, it’s the V-STRING!..."

..at which point the two blokes at the table started to drible and drool (etc etc use your imagination) and wanted to

know more and what they looked like etc.

Do you know how absolutely 'flipping’ proud I was at that moment to have been part of the Bras 'n Things team that

has managed to -make an impact

-change consumer perception & traditional language terms

~excite people

-break new ground

-make a DIFFERENCE

Well done to you guys for your persistance and your unified and powerful team effort-see what we can achieve when

we all work together ! What makes this little story even more significant is that the closest Bras 'n Things store to

Griffith is 2 hours drive away in Wagga Waggal...that's one hell of a powerful message you guys sent out into the

market, So powerful that they now even know about it in Ballina and you didn't even have to pay a cent in

advertising to spread that powerful message...our customers are now doing it for us! for free! and having fun doing

it! WOOO-HOOOO!

You also made an old-buyer feel very proud and reminded me of how much I miss all the crazy crew.

Well done to you, keep it up (as well as the blink'n share price)...my spinster retirement fund is looking a bit Best &

Less!

I hope this true story brightens your day and gives you a tingle of satisfaction. You may have been grumpy at times,

but you Bossman are certainly the best of the bestest!

Iran into Raith & some other cool dude (area mger I guess) on the plane to Port Macquarie last week..I was

surprising my Mum on her 70th b'day. You never know who you're going to meet where-Raith gave me the run-

down on the changes of roles in Brazin-never a dull moment I'm pleased to hear. Is my job as personal helicopter

pilot available as yet? Seriously though, I know I'm just a country-hick now but if you guys ever have a ‘how can we

re-invent, fix-up & let's explode Bras 'n Things or version of back into the market' brainstorming session of

outrageous, creative and downright stupid & bizarre ideas, I'd love to be invited to participate just as a voluntary

outsider whose BnT blinkers have been removed. My mind is desperate for some ludicrous idea type of

thinking...rolling up salami doesn't extend my brain much these days.

I guess my camping/Tumut property invite has been delayed in the post somewhere, I'm sure Australia Post will sort

it out soon though.

Be good ( but if you're going to be bad be good at it). Miss you, miss me.

Jen

22/07/00