SOURCE: A_Story_About_The_Power_of_Unconditional_Service_Guarantees.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Customer Service Guarantees
SUMMARY: The article discusses the power of unconditional service guarantees and how they can benefit businesses by improving customer focus, setting performance standards, identifying failures, and building customer loyalty.
KEYWORDS: service guarantees, customer experience, customer loyalty, performance standards, business strategy
---

[Document: A_Story_About_The_Power_of_Unconditional_Service_Guarantees.pdf]

Apr 8, 2016,04:51pm EDT

A Story About The Power of

Unconditional Service Guarantees

Adrian Swinscoe Contributor

Entrepreneurs

I write about customer service and the customer's experience.

This article is more than 4 years old.

My wife and I recently returned from a trip to Havana, Cuba where we spent a

few days on holiday. One evening during our trip, we found ourselves

wandering around Old Havana looking for a place to go for dinner when we

stumbled across a funky looking bar/restaurant called ‘Lamparilla Tapas Y

Cerveza’.

Now, we knew nothing about this restaurant and we didn’t have internet

access whilst in Cuba so we couldn’t look it up to see what other people had

said about it. However, the restaurant did look very interesting so we

wandered over to take a closer look at their menu.

While looking, we were greeted by the host and whilst chatting away to her,

Hana, my wife, jokingly asked if their food was any good.

HAVANA, CUBA - MARCH 23: Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images

The host was a little taken aback by this (obviously) but she confidently

replied: ‘If it isn’t any good, then I’ll pay’.

Her reply surprised us as it’s not something that we’ve had said to us before.

So, filled with optimism, we went inside and sat down.

Some people at this point might be saying that this was probably just a

marketing gimmick to get us to come into the restaurant. In some situations

that might be true but it wasn’t in this one. The reason I say that is because at

the end of our meal, our host came over to our table again and asked us: “So,

am I paying?”

We promptly answered ‘No’ and were delighted to be able to tell her that the

food and service had been fantastic.

Back in the UK, I was reflecting on our experience at Lamparilla and it

reminded me of a 1988 HBR article by Christopher Hart called The Power of

Unconditional Service Guarantees. In the article, Hart discusses the idea and

benefits of service guarantees and suggests that a good one should be:

1. Unconditional;

2. Easy to understand and communicate;

3. Meaningful;

4. Easy (and painless) to invoke; and

5. Easy and quick to collect on.

I would suggest that our host provided us with an unconditional service

guarantee that meets all of Hart’s criteria. In fact, I would go further and say

they 'aced' criteria number 4, when they followed up with us to see if they had

lived up to their guarantee/promise.

Our experience at Lamparilla left me wondering why more service businesses

don’t offer unconditional service guarantees, particularly as Hart points out in

his article, there are a range of benefits that come from offering guarantees

like these. These include things like:

1. They can force companies to focus on what great service means

from their customers perspective;

2. They can help set performance standards;

3. They can help identify how, when and why a company fails; and

4. They can help build customer loyalty and sales.

In a crowded and competitive market, like the one that Lamparilla finds itself

in, the level of passion, commitment and belief that it takes to offer and deliver

against an unconditional service guarantee is infectious, stands out and gets

talked about.

I say again: I wonder why more service businesses don’t offer unconditional

service guarantees.

Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website or some of my other

work here.

Adrian Swinscoe

I’m an independent advisor, speaker and best-selling author on customer service, experience

and engagement. I have worked with a range of well known brands as well as numerous fast-growing and

entrepreneurial firms. I published a best-selling book (April 2016 - Pearson) called How To Wow and have

recently published a new one: PunkCX. I live with my wife Hana, by the sea, south of London in the UK.

When I get the chance I am a keen but average rock climber. Feel free to email me at

adrian@adrianswinscoe.com, connect with me on LinkedIn or tweet me @adrianswinscoe

Source link: https://www.forbes.com/sites/adrianswinscoe/2016/04/08/a-story-about-the-

power-of-unconditional-service-guarantees/#a6a42de6b57d