SOURCE: BBRC Masterclass - Overview for John Strong.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2012
TOPIC: Retail Analytics and Strategy
SUMMARY: This email discusses the agenda and logistics for a Retail Masterclass event, including sessions on retail metrics, merchandise analysis, and customer data analysis.
KEYWORDS: retail analytics, strategic planning, merchandise management, customer insights
---

[Document: BBRC Masterclass - Overview for John Strong.pdf]

Jess Kelly

From: Nico van der Merwe

Sent: Monday, 17 September 2012 3:15 PM

To: John.Strong@mason.wm.edu

Cc: Jess Kelly

Subject: BB Retail Capital - MasterClass

Attachments: Strategic Retail Integrated Framework BBRC Oct 2011.pptx; 1209 Diva category

analysis FASHION COLOUR Financial Month Review - July 2012.xlsx

Follow Up Flag: Follow up

Flag Status: Completed

Hi John,

I trust that you are keeping well.

Following up from our meeting we had on 13 July (while you wife and daughter enjoyed views from the

harbour bridge), below is my understanding of the tentative timetable we discussed – please modify and

comment as you see fit.

It would be great if you use the same presentation as last year and start from around slide 17 “Margin

Management in Retailing”.

• Thursday: 18 October:

o Arrive in Sydney during the afternoon/evening

o Accommodation at Sheraton on the Park

• Friday, 19 October (58 The Crescent, Vaucluse)

o 8:30 meet with Brett Blundy

o 9:30 – 5:00 pm: Bras N Things – Retail metrics and Pentagon/triangle

Day 1 Monday, 22 October - 8:15 Registration to commence at 8:30

• Homework for all Brands to prepare and bring with them:

o Strategic Resource management model for their Brand (FY12 vs FY11

(cid:1) Brands to provide some commentary on the movement between the two years and the

action taken in FY13

o Any other homework they should prepare ?

• 1st Group breakout (Monday morning/afternoon)

o John, you were considering a breakout during the day

o Please advise if you need “data” as well as what data you need ?

• 2nd Group breakout (Monday afternoon/evening)

o Using Diva data; “what is the best way to assemble this merchandise in a store to maximise

results”

o See attached spreadsheet with diva sales data

o (To include sales for July, August and September 12)

Day 2 Tuesday, 23 October - commence 8:30 am

• Groups to report back on the evening breakout session

• 3rd Group breakout (Tuesday morning)

o Merchandise related

o John, you will need to provide the “data” for this

1

• 4th Group breakout (Tuesday afternoon)

o Customer/transaction analysis (counts, conversion, basket size ??)

o John, you will need to provide the “data” for this

• Brett to close the Masterclass around 5:30 pm

Please forward a soft copy of the presentation that you will use in order for us to make copies for all those

attending.

If there is any pre-reading you would like to distribute, send us the titles and we will forward to participants.

I have included Jess Kelly in the email , who has taken over as Brett’s new PA.

Regards,

Nico

Nico van der Merwe | Chief Financial Officer

BB Retail Capital Pty Ltd

p +61 2 9337 9402

m 0424 220 044

e nico@diva.net.au

w www.bbretailcapital.com.au

Please consider the environment before printing this email. This communication is intended only for the person or entity to which it is addressed and may contain

confidential and/or privileged material. Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, or taking any action in reliance on, this communication by persons or

entities other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you received this in error, please inform BB Retail Capital ("BBRC") immediately by return email and delete the

material including all copies from any computer. BBRC makes no express or implied representation or warranty that this electronic communication or any attachment is

free from computer viruses or other defects or conditions which could damage or interfere with the recipients data, hardware or software.

2