SOURCE: BBRC University - JUNE 2017 - BB.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2017
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: This text discusses the challenges large organizations face in maintaining the dynamism and decision-making speed of a start-up, as they grow larger and more complex.
KEYWORDS: business growth, decision-making, organizational dynamics, proxy metrics, customer-centric design
---

[Document: BBRC University - JUNE 2017 - BB.pdf]

BBRC

29

Amazon

As companies get larger and more complex, there’s a tendency

to manage to proxies. This comes in many shapes and sizes, and

it’s dangerous, subtle, and very Day 2.

BBRC

30

Amazon

A common example is process as proxy. Good process serves

you so you can serve customers. But if you’re not watchful, the

process can become the thing. This can happen very easily in

large organizations. The process becomes the proxy for the

result you want. You stop looking at outcomes and just make

sure you’re doing the process right. Gulp. It’s not that rare to

hear a junior leader defend a bad outcome with something like,

“Well, we followed the process.” A more experienced leader will

use it as an opportunity to investigate and improve the process.

The process is not the thing. It’s always worth asking, do we

own the process or does the process own us? In a Day 2

company, you might find it’s the second.

BBRC

31

Amazon

Another example: market research and customer surveys can

become proxies for customers – something that’s especially

dangerous when you’re inventing and designing products.

“Fifty-five percent of beta testers report being satisfied with this

feature. That is up from 47% in the first survey.” That’s hard to

interpret and could unintentionally mislead.

BBRC

32

Good inventors and designers deeply understand their

customer. They spend tremendous energy developing that

intuition. They study and understand many anecdotes rather

than only the averages you’ll find on surveys. They live with the

design.

BBRC

33

I’m not against beta testing or surveys. But you, the product or

service owner, must understand the customer, have a vision, and

love the offering. Then, beta testing and research can help you

find your blind spots. A remarkable customer experience starts

with heart, intuition, curiosity, play, guts, taste. You won’t find

any of it in a survey.

BBRC

34

Embrace External Trends

The outside world can push you into Day 2 if you won’t or can’t

embrace powerful trends quickly. If you fight them, you’re

probably fighting the future. Embrace them and you have a

tailwind.

These big trends are not that hard to spot (they get talked and

written about a lot), but they can be strangely hard for large

organizations to embrace. We’re in the middle of an obvious

one right now: machine learning and artificial intelligence.

BBRC

35

High Velocity Decision Making

BBRC

36

Amazon

Day 2 companies make high-quality decisions, but they make

high-quality decisions slowly. To keep the energy and dynamism

of Day 1, you have to somehow make high-quality, high-velocity

decisions. Easy for start-ups and very challenging for large

organizations. The senior team at Amazon is determined to keep

our decision-making velocity high. Speed matters in business –

plus a high-velocity decision making environment is more fun

too. We don’t know all the answers, but here are some

thoughts.

BBRC

37

Amazon

First, never use a one-size-fits-all decision-making process.

Many decisions are reversible, two-way doors. Those decisions

can use a light-weight process. For those, so what if you’re

wrong? I wrote about this in more detail in last year’s letter.

BBRC

38

Second, most decisions should probably be made with

somewhere around 70% of the information you wish you had. If

you wait for 90%, in most cases, you’re probably being slow.

Plus, either way, you need to be good at quickly recognizing

and correcting bad decisions. If you’re good at course

correcting, being wrong may be less costly than you think,

whereas being slow is going to be expensive for sure.

BBRC

39

Amazon

Fourth, recognize true misalignment issues early and escalate

them immediately. Sometimes teams have different objectives

and fundamentally different views. They are not aligned. No

amount of discussion, no number of meetings will resolve that

deep misalignment. Without escalation, the default dispute

resolution mechanism for this scenario is exhaustion. Whoever

has more stamina carries the decision.

BBRC

40

Amazon

So, have you settled only for decision quality, or are you

mindful of decision velocity too? Are the world’s trends

tailwinds for you? Are you falling prey to proxies, or do they

serve you? And most important of all, are you delighting

customers? We can have the scope and capabilities of a large

company and the spirit and heart of a small one. But we have to

choose it.

BBRC

41

A Winning Culture Payoffs

▪ Increased level of satisfaction and engagement (having mind and soul

in the business).

▪ Wining cultures attracts winners: winners stay with winners – losers go

with losers

▪ Builds a buzz – social, interactive and cohesive environment with a

sense of fun.

▪ Binds together - sense of family.

▪ Relationships improve – winning cultures attract winning cultures.

▪ Improved operational productivity.

▪ Standardised approach to doing business. “the way it is around here”

BBRC

Culture

“Culture may be the one long-term

source of competitive advantage

because it can’t be quickly copied”

BBRC

Culture

“Everything that can be counted does not

necessarily count; everything that counts

cannot necessarily be counted.“

- Albert Einstein

BBRC

Getting it out there

▪ Each of us, as leaders, to recommit and refresh, walk

it and talk it!

▪ Double down on complacency – grab it by the throat.

▪ Continues improvement……

BBRC

BBRC UNIVERSITY

MARKET LEADER – A WONDERFUL DANGEROUS PLACE TO BE

June 2017

CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT

BBRC

BBRC

46

Continuous improvement

ATTITUDE MINDSET

▪ We have never arrived.

▪ Its Day 1 – Day 1, always.

▪ There is no finish line – build for all time.

▪ We are starting from here – improve it.

▪ Its great – how do we make it better.

▪ If we are not improving we are going backwards.

BBRC

47

Continuous improvement

Continuous improvement attitude and

mindset beats arrogance and

complacency.

BBRC

48

Continuous Improvement

When we are winning convincingly we stop weeding the

garden. We stop paying attention. We are less focused. We

get more confident, more arrogant, more complacent …