SOURCE: BBRC Masterclass - Overview for John Strong cont..pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2012
TOPIC: Retail Sales Data Analysis
SUMMARY: This document discusses the need to provide retail sales data for a group breakout session and a request for a presentation and any pre-reading materials.
KEYWORDS: retail sales data, group breakout session, presentation, pre-reading materials
---

[Document: BBRC Masterclass - Overview for John Strong cont..pdf]

results”

o See attached spreadsheet with diva sales data

o (To include sales for July, August and September 12)

Day 2 Tuesday, 23 October - commence 8:30 am

• Groups to report back on the evening breakout session

• 3rd Group breakout (Tuesday morning)

o Merchandise related

o John, you will need to provide the “data” for this

• 4th Group breakout (Tuesday afternoon)

3

o Customer/transaction analysis (counts, conversion, basket size ??)

o John, you will need to provide the “data” for this

• Brett to close the Masterclass around 5:30 pm

Please forward a soft copy of the presentation that you will use in order for us to make copies for all those

attending.

If there is any pre-reading you would like to distribute, send us the titles and we will forward to participants.

I have included Jess Kelly in the email , who has taken over as Brett’s new PA.

Regards,

Nico

Nico van der Merwe | Chief Financial Officer

BB Retail Capital Pty Ltd

p +61 2 9337 9402

m 0424 220 044

e nico@diva.net.au

w www.bbretailcapital.com.au

Please consider the environment before printing this email. This communication is intended only for the person or entity to which it is addressed and may contain

confidential and/or privileged material. Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, or taking any action in reliance on, this communication by persons or

entities other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you received this in error, please inform BB Retail Capital ("BBRC") immediately by return email and delete the

material including all copies from any computer. BBRC makes no express or implied representation or warranty that this electronic communication or any attachment is

free from computer viruses or other defects or conditions which could damage or interfere with the recipients data, hardware or software.

4