SOURCE: BBRC Masterclass - Memo to all attendees + Reading material.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2012
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: An invitation to attend a BBRC Masterclass led by Professor John Strong, with pre-reading and homework requirements, including a Strategic Resource Management model and a case study discussion on Sephora.
KEYWORDS: BBRC Masterclass, Strategic Resource Management, Sephora case study, Business model, Business strategy
---

[Document: BBRC Masterclass - Memo to all attendees + Reading material.pdf]

Jess Kelly

From: Nico van der Merwe

Sent: Tuesday, 2 October 2012 3:53 PM

To: Jess Kelly

Subject: BBRC Masterclass: led by Professor John Strong

Attachments: Sephora.pdf; Masterclass 2012.pptx

Hi Jess,

To be sent to all attendees.

Regards, Nico

Dear all,

The BBRC Masterclass is just over 2 weeks away.

In preparation for the two day conference, some pre-reading and homework is required:

Strategic Resource Management model:

Each CEO/GM to present the Summary SRM for that Brand (see attached template) and to provide some

comments/observations on their findings.

Case study:

We intend to open the Masterclass with a case study discussion on Sephora - a company that has a strong brand

with very good focus on stores and how to support them on a variety of dimensions. Please be prepared to discuss

the strengths and issues of the business model.

Regards,

Nico

Nico van der Merwe | Chief Financial Officer

BB Retail Capital Pty Ltd

p +61 2 9337 9402

m 0424 220 044

e nico@diva.net.au

w www.bbretailcapital.com.au

Please consider the environment before printing this email. This communication is intended only for the person or entity to which it is addressed and may contain

confidential and/or privileged material. Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, or taking any action in reliance on, this communication by persons or

entities other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you received this in error, please inform BB Retail Capital ("BBRC") immediately by return email and delete the

material including all copies from any computer. BBRC makes no express or implied representation or warranty that this electronic communication or any attachment is

free from computer viruses or other defects or conditions which could damage or interfere with the recipients data, hardware or software.

From: Jess Kelly

Sent: Tuesday, 18 September 2012 5:11 PM

To: Nico van der Merwe; 'mark clark'; Paul Grosmann; 'Tracey Blundy (tracey@bbretailcapital.com.au)'; 'Gary

Jenkins'; 'Vanessa Wolczak (Vanessa.wolczak@bnt.com.au)'; 'Ian Sadler (iains@lovisa.com.au)'; 'Jenny Hides

(Jhides@adairs.com.au)'; David Chahrozian (David.Chahrozian@bnt.com.au); 'fhatzis@adairs.com.au';

'bvodanovich@adairs.com.au'; 'lderek@adairs.com.au'; 'Mark Ronan (mronan@adairs.com.au)'; 'David McLean

(d.maclean@adairs.com.au)'; 'Michael Cherubino (CFO Adairs)'; Barry Phillips; Eugene Biankin; Misty Sullivan; Alistair

Keep; Peri-Jane Crosbie; Mariani Hadikusuma; 'Travis Liddle (travis@dusk.com.au)'; 'brian.jefferies@dusk.com.au';

'Leonie Newham (Dusk CFO)'; 'Naomi.billington@dusk.com.au'; 'karen.crouch@bnt.com.au';

1

'andrew.pong@bnt.com.au'; 'stephenm@lovisa.com.au'; 'michelleh@lovisa.com.au'; Christy Passlow; Shane

Fallscheer; Tim Hickey; Greg Milne; Nicole Noye; 'Courtney'; 'Danielle Wright'; 'Debbie Oliver

(doliver@adairs.com.au)'; Erin Muston; Brett Blundy; 'Travis Liddle'; 'Strong, John'; Courtney Bassett; 'David

MacLean'; Michelle Kluz; Joe Wong; Allison Berger

Subject: BBRC Masterclass: led by Professor John Strong

Dear All,

Just a short reminder that the 2-day BBRC Masterclass is only five weeks away! Could you all please ensure you

have the dates booked into your calendars, and that you are all starting to confirm your flights.

Details are as follows:

Location

Sheraton on the Park, 161 Macquarie St, Sydney

Times

Monday 22 October – 8:15am – 10.00pm

Tuesday 23 October – 8.15am – 5.30pm

Don’t forget

(cid:1) Homework. The pre-reading material will be sent through in the next few weeks for all brands to prepare and

bring with them

(cid:1) Laptops. You will all need to bring your laptops to all sessions on both days

Objectives

(cid:1) To reinforce the why and how of using GMROI/GMROL/ GMROM and other financial and productivity metrics to

evaluate and improve performance

(cid:1) To give us a set of actionable analytical tools for managing our productivity of merchandise, space and people

(cid:1) To provide us with tools to develop a competitive advantage and an integrated framework for data driven retail

strategic management

I look forward to a productive but also fun couple of days where we can contribute to class discussions and

interactively work in groups throughout the program to build our understanding and ability to apply what we learn.

Please let me know if you have any questions and I will see you all there!

Jess

Jessica Kelly | EA to Brett Blundy

BB Retail Capital Pty Ltd

p 02 9337 9401 m 0405 422 762

e jess@diva.net.au

w www.bbretailcapital.com.au

2