SOURCE: BBRC Masterclass - Overview for John Strong cont..pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2012
TOPIC: Retail Business Consulting
SUMMARY: This email discusses the plan for a two-day Masterclass event, including the agenda, data requirements, and participant information.
KEYWORDS: retail consulting, business analysis, performance metrics, data analysis
---

[Document: BBRC Masterclass - Overview for John Strong cont..pdf]

Jess Kelly

From: Nico van der Merwe

Sent: Monday, 24 September 2012 3:06 PM

To: John.Strong@mason.wm.edu

Cc: Jess Kelly

Subject: BB Retail Capital - MasterClass

Attachments: 1203 dusk SAR 9 May 2012.pptx; 1203 SAR Lovisa Apr 2012.pptx; 1203 SARS - BNT-

19 April 2012 (2).pptx; 1203 Diva SAR presentation - Apr 12.pptx; Masterclass

accommodation.xlsx

Hi John,

I am fine with your suggestions:

The Sephora case study will be a good introduction into the two days - the store and cluster analysis as the

evening assignment and the level two of Diva merchandise analysis on Tuesday.

Data:

• We can get updated BNT data for the store and cluster performance. Is this okay for your break-outs

(so all the data is not only Diva) ?

• Diva will also provide updated merchandise data (July 12 to September 12) for the six major categories

o 6 - Neckwear

o 9 - Wristwear

o 12 - Rings

o 15 - Hair

o 18 - Bodywear

o 21 - Sets

March 2012 SARs

All attached, except for Adairs, who did not prepare a presentation.

Participants:

• There will be around 35 participants (see attached spreadsheet).

• Approximately 40% will be new folks.

Regards,

Nico

From: Strong, John [mailto:John.Strong@mason.wm.edu]

Sent: Friday, 21 September 2012 1:02 AM

To: Nico van der Merwe

Cc: Jess Kelly

Subject: RE: BB Retail Capital - MasterClass

Hi Nico,

Thoughts:

I agree that we should focus improving metrics and performance during the two days. What I

think might be a good sequence for group work would be:

-Store and cluster performance analysis (which would let us get at transactions, etc. as well)

1

-Diva Category analysis (using the diva merchandise workbook sorted by customer, product

group, wallbay, etc.)

-Detailed sku level analysis (similar to the hair ranges and neckwear we looked at last October)

Perhaps a good way to structure the two days

Monday morning :

Open with case study discussion (To get everyone talking): Sephora is probably the best in terms

of relevance...the company/brand has strong equity and very good focus on stores and how to

support them on a variety of dimensions. The case title on social media is misleading -- I would

use it to discuss the strengths and issues of the business model.

(I am thinking that a case is only a possibility, but we may want to plunge right into the financial

stuff....although it might be good to not have folks feel like they are going into two days of the

Spanish Inquisition!)

Then I could do a review of financial and Productivity stuff (from slide 17 from last year)

Then presentation of Summary SRM by brands

Then teams do store & cluster analysis

Then evening assignment on Diva Merchandise analysis by category

Tuesday:

Presentations on Diva categories

Merchandise analysis at the fine line level (like the neckwear and hair ranges data)

If we did a case study discussion first, then we might do the store and cluster analysis as the

evening assignment and then do the two level of Diva merchandise analysis on Tuesday.

A couple basic questions:

1. How many participants, and from what brands?

2. How many new folks (if any)?

What data is needed:

1. SARs for all brands from March 2012 (so I can evaluate relative to the October 2011 materials)

2. Can you get for Diva/Lovisa store and cluster performance data similar to that in the attached

BNT file?

3. Can you get updated merchandise data for fine line categories like hair ranges and neckwear

for Diva (it might be good to have 5 or so categories so each team can work on something

different at the micro level)?

I am attaching the old files so you know what I am talking about.

Let me know what you think.

2

Thanks

John

From: Nico van der Merwe [nico@diva.net.au]

Sent: Monday, September 17, 2012 1:14 AM

To: Strong, John

Cc: Jess Kelly

Subject: BB Retail Capital - MasterClass

Hi John,

I trust that you are keeping well.

Following up from our meeting we had on 13 July (while you wife and daughter enjoyed views from the

harbour bridge), below is my understanding of the tentative timetable we discussed – please modify and

comment as you see fit.

It would be great if you use the same presentation as last year and start from around slide 17 “Margin

Management in Retailing”.

• Thursday: 18 October:

o Arrive in Sydney during the afternoon/evening

o Accommodation at Sheraton on the Park

• Friday, 19 October (58 The Crescent, Vaucluse)

o 8:30 meet with Brett Blundy

o 9:30 – 5:00 pm: Bras N Things – Retail metrics and Pentagon/triangle

Day 1 Monday, 22 October - 8:15 Registration to commence at 8:30

• Homework for all Brands to prepare and bring with them:

o Strategic Resource management model for their Brand (FY12 vs FY11

(cid:1) Brands to provide some commentary on the movement between the two years and the

action taken in FY13

o Any other homework they should prepare ?

• 1st Group breakout (Monday morning/afternoon)

o John, you were considering a breakout during the day

o Please advise if you need “data” as well as what data you need ?

• 2nd Group breakout (Monday afternoon/evening)

o Using Diva data; “what is the best way to assemble this merchandise in a store to maximise

results”

o See attached spreadsheet with diva sales data

o (To include sales for July, August and September 12)

Day 2 Tuesday, 23 October - commence 8:30 am

• Groups to report back on the evening breakout session

• 3rd Group breakout (Tuesday morning)

o Merchandise related

o John, you will need to provide the “data” for this

• 4th Group breakout (Tuesday afternoon)

3

o Customer/transaction analysis (counts, conversion, basket size ??)

o John, you will need to provide the “data” for this

• Brett to close the Masterclass around 5:30 pm