SOURCE: BBRC Customer Focus  Academy- October 2020.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Customer Service Strategy
SUMMARY: This business document analyzes Taco Bell's evolving service strategies and Oberoi Hotels' customer service initiatives to provide insights for organizations.
KEYWORDS: customer service, service management, business strategy, organizational change, luxury hospitality
---

[Document: BBRC Customer Focus  Academy- October 2020.docx]

Part 1--	Case study – Putting the Service Profit Chain to Work

Pre-reading: Taco Bell Inc. (1983-1994)

Assignment Questions:

1.	Identify and evaluate the managerial changes instituted at Taco Bell during each of the following periods:

1983-1989: The “Mexican fast food” strategy

1989-1991: The “feeding people” strategy

1991-1994: The “convenience food” strategy

2.	Why was it necessary for the strategy to evolve three times in ten years?  In each period, analyze the degree to which the systems, structures, capacity, and culture of Taco Bell were coherent with its strategy.  Do the choices that CEO John Martin made during each period of change make sense to you?  Why or why not?

3.	Is Taco Bell positioned to reach its new goals at the end of the case?  What advice would you have given John Martin in 1994?

4.	Which of the general ideas about strategy and service management in the Taco Bell case relate to efforts at your organization?  Which ideas do not relate?  Why?

Part 2-   	Case study – Designing and Delivering Great Service Experiences

Pre-reading: Oberoi Hotels: Train Whistle in the Tiger Reserve

Assignment Questions:

Celebrated as one of the world’s premiere luxury hotel brands, Oberoi Hotels attracts and serves some of the most quality-sensitive guests in the world.

1.	The case provides a detailed description of Oberoi’s operation and begins with the management of a guest complaint.  How do you recommend Vikram respond?  What is the primary driver of your recommendation?

2.	What is your assessment of eMpower, Oberoi’s HR initiative, and how the incentives work to create a front line who are empathetic and attentive?  Would you expect it to work well in this context over time?  How might you need to adapt this to be effective in your own organization?

3.	What advice do you have regarding Oberoi’s growth plans?

4.  What insights does this case generate for your organization?