SOURCE: BBRC University 2018_Chairman Letter.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2018
TOPIC: Company Culture and Performance
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of company culture in driving the success and performance of BBRC, a global retail business.
KEYWORDS: company culture, organizational performance, leadership, global expansion, retail business
---

[Document: BBRC University 2018_Chairman Letter.pdf]

www.bbrcworld.com

26 July 2018

Dear All,

BBRC UNIVERSITY 2018

I look forward to being with you in a few short days for our BBRC 2018 University Day.

It’s now 38 years since that first store in Pakenham, Victoria. That 38th year has seen the Blundy family

moved from Singapore to North America with the purpose of getting closer to our customer and

understanding the market I expect in time will be our biggest. It has also brought me closer to Europe,

our second biggest market. On a personal level, Vanessa and I questioned the disruption it will cause

to Sam and Mia – their friends, school, et cetera. It turns out well, they love their new school and new

friends. We all enjoy being global and the excitement that comes with new countries, different ways

and different cultures.

Across the BBRC portfolio each of you is the driving force behind our continued ability to outperform

our past results and our competitors, to deliver on our relentless mission to improve, to grow in size

and effectiveness. Again, the past 12 months has achieved that – and then some! We have delivered

again on our mission - “number one in every category we operate”. A huge applause to each and every

one of you who has delivered these stellar results this past year. A huge thank you for what you have

done. Perhaps more importantly, taking this opportunity, to say thanks for what you will do.

The past year's results confirm what I continue to believe - that our success is built:

 through high standards;

 through great people;

 through humility;

 through our great culture and our commitment to both understanding and execution of it;

 through a bias towards action;

 through holding all and ourselves accountable; and

 through relentless and obsessive attention to our customer.

What we didn't do and can never do is:

 Drive safely down the middle of the road;

 Be like everyone else;

 Accept what most would accept;

Page 1 / 3

www.bbrcworld.com

 Think like everybody else;

 Be influenced by headlines;

 Watch what our competitors do; and

 Think outside influences are in control of our future.

We do achieve our success by being different, in lots of ways, radically different. I have always believed

the sharper that difference, the greater our advantage is.

We will take the time at this year’s ‘University’ to focus on the secret ingredient to our success – our

culture. With the very appropriate titled day of ‘Building A Great Organization With Culture At Its

Core’. Our expectation is that you will leave with a deeper understanding of the importance of our

culture, how it adds significantly to your own and the organization’s success and how you can play

your part in strengthening our culture through your own actions and behaviours.

To assist us in making the day successful we have the world-class Prof. Boris Groysberg of Harvard

Business School. You will like him, and his energy will excite you. I have no doubt during this session it

will produce some great personal learnings (and improvements) for all of us. This day is for you, so

please come prepared and focused, having read and absorbed the pre-reading so that we can get the

true benefit from Boris’s time with us. I’m enclosing the BBRC cultural commitments 10+1 as I know

some of the brands have slightly deviated versions and want all of us to be on the same page for the

University.

Again, my sincerest thanks, we will have some fun, and we will learn and improve as individuals, as

leaders and as a business.

See you all next week!

Thank you.

Yours sincerely

Brett Blundy

Chairman and Founder

Page 2 / 3

www.bbrcworld.com

Page 3 / 3