SOURCE: BBRC Knowledge Sharing HFT_Final.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.05 HFT - Knowledge Sharing
TOPIC: Knowledge Sharing
SUMMARY: A discussion on how to effectively share knowledge within an organization to upskill teams, improve engagement, and maintain company culture.
KEYWORDS: knowledge sharing, organizational learning, employee training, corporate culture
---

BBRC High Focus Topic series

“Knowledge Sharing”

27 May 2015

11am Singapore / 1pm AEST

It’s about Her, Always!

1

Agenda and format

 FORMAT

─ Total time: 1 hour (+ 15 minutes if we need it)

─ On the phone: CEOs and other leaders

 AGENDA

− Quick BB topic intro (10 mins)

− 3 discussions (aim to do 15 mins each)

− One question (10 mins)

2

BB Intro – what are we talking about today?

 We have a lot of knowledge across the group  AARs  How we do sale  Succession

 Work Outs  BIP not Budgets  It’s About Her

(our proven BBRC way)  PARs  10 plus 1  Etc…!!

 We need to make the effort to share and build on this – concerned it gets lost

 Sharing knowledge has the straight forward benefit of upskilling teams…

 … but it can also be used to improve team engagement.. and keeping the culture

and magic alive – the DIFFERENCE

 Let’s discuss how we do it and how we can get better at it

“Leaders may think that getting their organisations to learn is only a matter of

articulating a clear vision, giving employees the right incentives, and

providing lots of training…

This assumption is not merely flawed – it’s risky in the face of intensifying

competition, advances in technology, and shifts in customer preferences”

Harvard Business Review, 2008

3

DISCUSSION POINT 1

How do you ensure knowledge (that matters)

gets through at your brand? (i.e. how do we

share knowledge today)

4

DISCUSSION POINT 2

Do you prefer a formal or informal process,

and if one over the other, why?

5

DISCUSSION POINT 3

What’s the biggest challenge you face in

transferring knowledge?

What stops it getting through?

6

A “Learning Organisation” – 3 building blocks

A Learning Organisation

Concrete

A supportive Leadership that

learning

learning reinforces

processes and

environment learning

practices

Psychological safety Internal (e.g. AARs) External training Lead through

Probing questions

Openness to example

Appreciation of new ideas Generation

differences Time and

Collection Attentive listening resources to

learning

Time for reflection

Interpretation

Dissemination

7

8