SOURCE: BBRC Culture HFT.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture\2015.08 HFT - Culture
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and Innovation
SUMMARY: This document discusses the importance of building a culture that fosters innovation, and provides guidance on how leaders can model and reinforce the desired cultural values.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, innovation, leadership, role modeling, communication
---

BBRC High Focus Topic series

Culture (and building innovation into it…)

1 September 2015

11am Singapore / 1pm AEST

It’s about Her, Always!

1

Agenda and format

 FORMAT

─ Total time: 1 hour (+ 15 minutes if we need it)

─ On the phone: CEOs and other leaders

 AGENDA

− Quick BB topic intro (10 mins)

− 3 discussions (aim to do 15 mins each)

− One question (10 mins)

2

BB Intro – what are we talking about today?

 Getting Culture right is even more important than we think it is

 It needs to be deliberately enforced, corrected and protected (and if you don’t

do it, it will happen anyway in an unintentional way…)

 We have a newly formatted 10 PLUS 1 – use it as an opportunity to make sure

our teams know about and it’s getting used

 Culture and employee engagement are tightly linked – so getting culture right is

efficient and powerful from a recruitment perspective

 At a senior level, INNOVATION needs to be cultural – how are we doing this? We

should start with getting this embedded

 One of the only truly unique sources of competitive advantage

“The responsibility of our leaders is to ‘walk the talk’, ‘paint the picture’ and

‘tell the story’ of what is truly important”

Communicate, Communicate, Communicate!

3

DISCUSSION POINT 1

How are you planning on building innovation

into your culture at your senior levels?

4

DISCUSSION POINT 2

How can you personally improve on being a

role model of the BBRC Culture? What can

you be doing more/less of?

5

DISCUSSION POINT 3

2 positive and 1 negative example from within

the last month, of people in our teams

demonstrating (or not) the 10 PLUS 1

6

Additional thoughts…

 Employees are always watching for your cues (a reminder from the “Taste of

Harvard” seminar)

 Out of 10 instances, if you as a leader behave in a “culturally appropriate” way

9 times, but slip up once – it is this one time that your teams will remember

 There needs to be no ambiguity on the most important things that matter to

the culture (integrity)

 Use “symbolic gestures” to reinforce and remind of the culture – ceremonies,

storytelling, terminology, RECOGNITION – we can always do more of this

 Other questions to ask post this session:

 How are employees likely to act when the pressure is on and no one is

watching? Why?

 Do we have talent-management practices in place across the organisation

that support our 10 PLUS 1? What do we need to do to make this happen?

7

8