SOURCE: BCG_Women_Want_More_in_Financial_Services_Oct_2009_tcm80-31680.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Women in Financial Services
SUMMARY: A comprehensive survey reveals that women around the world are more dissatisfied with the financial services industry than any other and are seeking a specialized approach to serving their financial needs.
KEYWORDS: women, financial services, customer satisfaction, gender inequality, wealth management
---

Women Want

OppOrtunities

for

ActiOn More (in

Financial Services)

FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

A

quiet economic and social revolution is taking place,

one that has significant meaning for financial servic-

es organizations. It is a revolution of, by, and for

women, driven by a quest for more—more time, more value,

more peaceful and secure lives.

Consider the following:

◊ Today, one billion women participate in the global work-

force—a number that will grow to 1.2 billion over the next

five years.

◊ More married women are joining millions of single-parent

women and becoming the financial heads of their house-

holds. In the United States, a full third of working married

■ According to a comprehensive sur- women make more money than their husbands.

vey conducted by BCG, women around

the world are more dissatisfied with ◊ The percentage of female senior executives, business own-

the financial services industry than any ers, and entrepreneurs who are accumulating sizable assets

other that affects their daily lives. and wealth is rising significantly.

■ Many women believe that their gen- ◊ Women account for 57 percent of undergraduates and 59

der is a key factor in the disrespect and percent of graduate school students in the United States.

condescension they have often experi- Worldwide, they hold 47 percent of university places.

enced and the poor advice they have

received in the industry. ◊ More women are inheriting wealth because of their longev-

ity and demographic patterns.

■ In fact, the lifestyles of working and

affluent women, both married and sin- In fact, the lifestyles of working and affluent women, both

gle, increasingly call for a specialized married and single, increasingly call for a specialized

approach to serving them financial- approach to serving them financially—one that can be

ly—one that relatively few providers immensely profitable for financial institutions. Yet few

have recognized. institutions have recognized, let alone acted on, this oppor-

tunity.

■ Financial institutions that do not

take action to seize this opportunity Of course, some financial-services executives may argue that

risk missing the quiet revolution that is women’s financial needs are just the same as men’s and that

developing in the female economy— financial institutions need not put time and resources into

and the vast benefits that can be cap- discovering and providing what women really want. But such

tured. claims are strongly refuted by our proprietary research. We

recently conducted a large and comprehensive survey—The

Boston Consulting Group Global Inquiry into Women and

Women Want More (in Financial Services) 2

Consumerism—to which a total of more than 12,000 and treat them as professional equals to their male

women from 21 countries and diverse socioeconomic counterparts.

classes responded.1 The survey consisted of 120 ques-

tions, both multiple choice and open ended, that asked Yet women continually feel exasperated by the way

women for their candid opinions about many aspects of financial companies serve them. Our survey respon-

their lives, including their education, income and fi- dents had quite a few scathing things to say, reporting

nances, homes and possessions, jobs and careers, shop- that they have often experienced disrespect, condescen-

ping behaviors, and spending patterns. sion, poor advice, contradictory policies, and a seeming-

ly endless obstacle course of red tape and one-size-fits-

The results of the survey are startling. Of all the indus- all forms that have left them annoyed and exhausted.

tries that affect their daily lives, women around the While men can obviously become frustrated by poor

world have identified the financial services industry as service as well, the women in our survey believed

the one they are most dissatisfied with on both a service that their gender was a key factor in the way they were

and a product level. For example, in the investment are- treated.

na, 73 percent of survey respondents said that they were

unhappy with the service level they received and 71 per- Here are some of the comments from our interviewees:

cent were dissatisfied with their financial provider’s

product offering. In insurance, the corresponding fig- ◊ “First and foremost, many financial planners talk

ures were 75 percent and 74 percent; in credit cards, 64 down to me. I ask a lot of questions because I want to

percent and 62 percent. Yet women did not just say that understand their investment strategies.”

they were discontented—they added that they were — Janice, 46, upper-middle class, married with children

more than willing to switch to providers that under-

stand them better. ◊ “I hate being stereotyped because of my gender and

age, and I don’t appreciate being talked to like an

Fast-moving financial institutions can seize this oppor- infant.”

tunity. They can provide services and products tailored — Mariana, 28, middle class, single

to women’s lifestyles, wipe out patronizing sales efforts,

and offer more information and education to women. In ◊ “I would change how many financial service reps talk

so doing, they can build a sense of community that leads down to women as if we cannot understand more than

to better, highly profitable relationships that can last for just the basics when it comes to financial discussions.

many years—and perhaps be passed down through gen- Being in the financial industry myself, I find these at-

erations, from mother to daughter. titudes highly insulting.”

— Karen, 51, upper-middle class, married with grown

But the first step is to understand why and how finan- children

cial institutions are failing to deliver what so many

women say they need. ◊ “As a single woman, I often feel that financial services

institutions aren’t looking for my business. They want

What’s Wrong? people who are preparing for kids. While I’d love to

have kids, I don’t want another reminder that kids

Just how are women’s daily lives different from those aren’t in my near-term future.”

of most men? And how do these differences affect wom- — Liz, 29, upper-middle class, single

en’s financial needs? The obvious truth is that many