SOURCE: BCG_Women_Want_More_in_Financial_Services_Oct_2009_tcm80-31680.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Financial Services for Women
SUMMARY: Women want more engagement with financial advisors, access to information, and services tailored to their needs, which presents a significant opportunity for financial institutions.
KEYWORDS: women, financial services, customer engagement, financial advice, wealth management
---

better financial advice. provide sufficient information about processes, and gen-

erally assume that clients do not want to pay higher fees

While it’s true that men face similar milestones, our sur- for greater access to information and their advisor’s

vey respondents clearly feel that they are taken less seri- time. Our research shows that these assumptions are in-

ously than men and that financial institutions are large- correct. Women want to have more engagement with

Women Want More (in Financial Services) 4

their advisors, would rather spend real time with them through financial education and community outreach.

than do research online by themselves, and are quite Since 1995, the bank has loaned more than $34 billion

willing to trade up for an advisor to whom they can del- to hundreds of thousands of female business owners.

egate important investment decisions. The bank states that it “recognized early on the power,

drive, and potential of women entrepreneurs” and that

Getting it Right it “remains committed to helping them achieve contin-

ued success.”

Some leading financial institutions are ahead of the

curve. They understand that women talk to one another Using Your Intuition

and that word of mouth is a powerful marketing force.

They have gone out of their way to address the specific The emergence of the global female economy holds the

issues that their female customers face, and they are potential for the creation of vast wealth. The $20 trillion

benefiting from these efforts. of consumer spending now controlled by women could

climb to as high as $28 trillion over the next five years.

Take Citi’s Women & Co. initiative, a membership pro- Women’s $12 trillion in total earnings will grow to ap-

gram that enables women who are interested in enhanc- proximately $18 trillion over the same period. Clearly,

ing their knowledge in finance, investment, and other serving women better and securing their loyalty should

areas to network and build a sense of community. The be a key goal of all financial-services companies.

program was launched by Citi “for women who want ob-

jective information and access to current financial Financial institutions wanting to get ahead of the game

thinking.” Women & Co. provides master-class seminars in developing and delivering products and services that

with professionals in many industries, goal-setting tools, women need should follow a set of practices that we call

audio and video conferences, and other benefits that the four Rs:

can help women take charge of their financial futures.

◊ Recognize. Make the effort to understand the size of the

In South Korea, Shinhan Financial Group’s Lady Card opportunity in women’s business in all areas of finan-

offers women discounts on restaurants, department cial services—particularly in asset and wealth manage-

stores, amusement parks, movies, travel, and child-care ment, insurance, and credit cards. Commit yourself to

centers—as well as zero interest on short-term install- researching where, how, and what the opportunity is

ment payments at some stores. The Lady Card, first is- for your company.

sued in 1999, quickly gained nearly a 30 percent share

among Korean women between the ages of 20 and 60, ◊ Research. Study how your product or service is con-

prompting other card companies to get into the game. sumed, from the beginning to the end of the process,

Today, two other cards with similar features—KB Card’s paying careful attention to frequency of use, habitua-

E-Queens Card and Samsung Card’s Sense & Beauty tion, the process by which dissatisfaction occurs, and

Card—compete with the Lady Card for share. All three the total time each segment requires to buy and use

card companies have recognized the increasing pur- your product or service.

chasing power of Korean women and have taken mean-

ingful steps to capture the benefits. ◊ Respond. Identify, with brutal honesty, the good and

bad points about your offering, and then aggressively

In insurance, Prudential Financial has formally stated respond to each source of dissatisfaction.

its support of initiatives that “share our goal of helping

women achieve financial security.” The company dedi- ◊ Refine. Take your ideas to market in a way that creates

cates special resources to helping women learn about lasting relationships with female consumers. Build

balancing family life and money, teaching children connections and bridges, and continually improve

about money, and coping financially with divorce or the your products to strengthen relationships for the

loss of a spouse. long term.

Another example is Wells Fargo. Through its Women’s The female economy represents the largest emerging

Business Services program, the bank has been a pioneer pool of wealth on the horizon. Financial institutions can

in creating a national initiative dedicated to female en- seize early-mover advantage by developing highly tar-

trepreneurs. The program provides business owners geted products and services, providing education and

with information, advice, resources, and support resources, and focusing their marketing efforts to reach

Women Want More (in Financial Services) 5

To receive future publications in electronic form about this topic or

out to women. In so doing, the winners in this race to

others, please visit our subscription Web site at www.bcg.com/

serve the female economy will create a virtuous circle of subscribe.

share gain, market value, and the ability to invest to

The Women Want More book-jacket photo is used with the permis-

take their leadership further.

sion of HarperCollins Publishers. Copyright 2009. All rights

reserved.

Michael J. Silverstein

Kosuke Kato © The Boston Consulting Group, Inc. 2009. All rights reserved.

10/09

Pia Tischhauser

Michael J. Silverstein is a senior partner and managing director in

the Chicago office of The Boston Consulting Group. Kosuke Kato is

a partner and managing director in the firm’s Tokyo office. Pia

Tischhauser is a partner and managing director in BCG’s Zurich

office.

You may contact the authors by e-mail at:

silverstein.michael@bcg.com

kato.kosuke@bcg.com

tischhauser.pia@bcg.com