SOURCE: BCG_Women_Want_More_in_Financial_Services_Oct_2009_tcm80-31680.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Women's Financial Needs
SUMMARY: This article explores how women's daily lives and financial needs differ from most men, and how financial services providers can better serve this market.
KEYWORDS: women's financial needs, financial services for women, gender differences in finance
---

have kids, I don’t want another reminder that kids

Just how are women’s daily lives different from those aren’t in my near-term future.”

of most men? And how do these differences affect wom- — Liz, 29, upper-middle class, single

en’s financial needs? The obvious truth is that many

women, in addition to holding down highly demanding ◊ “Advisors are almost afraid to let the woman make the

jobs, are the primary caregivers to children and often decision. They tend to defer to the male, no matter

to aging parents. They are household organizers and who is asking the questions or doing the investing.”

cleaners. They are food shoppers, menu planners, — Cecilia, 61, lower-middle class, married with grown

and cooks. They tidy up the kitchen and feed the pets. children

That old adage—men work from sun to sun, but wom-

en’s work is never done—has perhaps never been truer.

Indeed, the juggling act that so many women

confront—too many tasks and too little time—has 1. This article is adapted from Women Want More: How to Capture Your

Share of the World’s Largest, Fastest-Growing Market, by Michael J.

brought about the need for products and services that

Silverstein and Kate Sayre (Harper Business, 2009). Not all survey

both address women’s distinct financial circumstances respondents responded to all questions.

Women Want More (in Financial Services) 3

What exactly do women want from financial services ly insensitive to how the differences in women’s lifestyles

providers that they are not getting now? They want rec- affect their banking, investment, and insurance needs

ognition from the industry that women view money and at critical inflection points in their lives. In our view, if

wealth differently from men. By and large, women do you can successfully serve a woman while she is “on the

not seek to accumulate money for its own sake but view rise”—increasing her wealth or making an important

it as a way to care for themselves and their families, im- investment decision—she will probably remain a loyal

prove their lives, and—most important—ensure securi- customer as she moves into higher income brackets.

ty. They do not need financial products and services Even if her income and net worth do not rise substan-

that offer access to complex money-manipulation meth- tially, she is likely to remain a loyal, profitable customer

ods. They want advisors who understand their need for of the company that helped her through a significant

short-term simplicity and long-term stability. They want event.

solutions that help them with their most frustrating

task: managing the household finances from day to day Our survey also revealed that women’s attitudes and be-

and month to month. havior toward money and money management change

with age and wealth. Younger women tend to keep most

Our survey has helped us identify four service catego- of their money in traditional bank accounts. Women

ries that financial firms can focus on in order to capture with relatively little money have a very high level of dis-

more of women’s business: satisfaction with all financial services. Women under

the age of 50 are likely to prefer to do their banking on-

◊ Household Administration. Help women keep track of line whenever possible—primarily because they feel

family finances easily and securely, and enable them that their financial advisors don’t understand their

to save time spent in making calculations, writing needs and that it takes too much time to get the service

checks, and mailing payments. and information they require.

◊ Financial Education. Present opportunities for women Perhaps the greatest opportunity for improvement is in

to learn more about budgeting, saving, and long-term financial advice and investment services for affluent

financial planning. women. For example, older women who are “managing

on their own”—living without a partner—typically shift

◊ Financial Advice. Provide financial advisors who truly their wealth from stocks and bank accounts into retire-

understand women’s needs, can help women with fi- ment plans and real estate as they age. They have more

nancial planning, and treat women as equals and with wealth than women in other segments and more time to

respect. manage it. Yet many of them feel that investment advi-

sors treat them poorly, do not understand women’s

◊ Children’s Solutions. Offer ways to effectively protect needs, and do not have women’s best interests in mind.

children during financial troubles—for example, by These women say that they want better information

giving children access to funds in emergencies and by sources and educational materials to help them make

teaching them about finances. decisions. Like many men, they also feel that rates and

fees are often unreasonable and are sometimes hidden

Moreover, our survey indicates that there are certain or unclear.

times in women’s lives when they are most in need of fi-

nancial help. For a majority of women, these times in- A key group is well-educated, highly affluent women

clude opening a first bank account, obtaining a first with a net worth of between $500,000 and $1 million. A

credit card, accepting a first job, getting married, buy- significant amount of this segment’s wealth—an aver-

ing a home, starting a family, receiving a job promotion, age of 20 percent—is often in checking or savings ac-

getting divorced, or becoming widowed. For a smaller counts. These women know that they could and should

number of women, there are important “liquidity do more with their money but have not found a way that

events,” such as selling a business or coming into an in- feels right for them. They say that the financial advisors

heritance, that also put them in the market for new or they have worked with are not proactive enough, do not

better financial advice. provide sufficient information about processes, and gen-

erally assume that clients do not want to pay higher fees

While it’s true that men face similar milestones, our sur- for greater access to information and their advisor’s