SOURCE: Blundy_Magnificent Seven.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Growth and Leadership
SUMMARY: The text discusses the leadership and growth strategies of Australian retailer Brett Blundy and his team, the 'Magnificent Seven', who have built a successful private retailing company.
KEYWORDS: Retail, Leadership, Business Growth, Entrepreneurship
---

L E A D E R S H I P F O R G R O W T H START-UP STATES BIAS BUSTER ADDED AUTHENTICITY

Premiers jostle for Cracking cultural Blockchain use

growth businesses diversity expands to food

OOccttoobbeerr 22001166,, VVoolluummee 1177

AAFFRRBBOOSSSS..CCOOMM..AAUU

From left:

Eloise Monaghan,

Darren Holland,

Shane Fallscheer,

Greg Milne,

Daniel Agostinelli,

Tracey Blundy

and Ray Itaoui.

Magnificent Seven

H O W T O B E C O M E A R E T A I L M I L L I O N A I R E

COVER STORY

STORY ANNE HYLAND PHOTOS JESSE MARLOW, NIC WALKER, LOUIE DOUVIS

R

ETAILER BRETT BLUNDY was sitting with

colleague Greg Milne on the loungeroom

floor of his Kyle Bay home in Sydney’s south.

It was the early 1990s and there was almost no

furniture in the house as Blundy had invested

every cent he had into building his businesses:

Sanity Entertainment and Bras N Things.

Opposite Blundy was the “bra wall” where

almost 160 bras hung. It was what was known

as a range day when Blundy, Milne and other

executives got together to narrow down the

next range for Bras N Things stores.

“Brett would look at the bra wall and say that

one, that one, that one,” recalls Milne. “I’d have

to go away and pull out numbers and run product reports and

I’d discover, shit, he’s right. He could intuitively see that.”

For Milne, this anecdote perfectly demonstrates Blundy’s

innate talent for retail, a skill that allowed him to transform,

over four decades, a single music store into a global company

spanning retail, retail property and beef breeding.

Blundy, 56, now a billionaire, chairs BB Retail Capital, which

has built well-known companies from Sanity, Bras N Things to

Aventus. It’s also had failures such as Diva and Gosh Coffee. But

in the fickle retail industry where there are regular casualties,

Blundy’s record of having more wins than losses suggests he has

THE MILLIONAIRE a formula that works.

Blundy is notoriously guarded and private but he spoke to

BOSS for this article to share credit for BBRC’s success with seven

key executives who have worked with him.

“These guys I have called my partners and they’ve been really

terrific at ensuring our culture moves its way down and around

through the organisation. All of them buy into it. It’s easy to write

MACHINE

that stuff down, but much harder to ensure it’s instilled.”

The executives are partners in more than a figurative sense.

Most have been partial owners of the businesses they have built

with Blundy, not just equity participants.

Here, we get a rare look inside the hugely successful private

retailing company and the team that helped build it.

Blundy’s seven are all smart, humble and passionate leaders

The 10 + 1 principles that drive the success of and most are now multi-millionaires. They talk about why Blundy

inspired loyalty; the years of risk-taking, and of the culture that

Brett Blundy’s companies have helped seven of his has been an enduring force behind BBRC’s phenomenal growth,

and now the businesses they advise or manage.

executives become very wealthy. That’s why Milne says anyone who doesn’t buy into the culture

is weeded out: “Failure to do so can cause a cancer from within.”

16 OCTOBER 2016

Itaoui, the son of Lebanese migrant

factory workers, joined Sanity in 2001 as

an area manager and worked his way up to

Queensland state manager. He turned around

that state’s stores and later was promoted to

national manager.

Eventually, he became general manager

of Blundy’s broader retail group, then known

as Brazin, and also oversaw the roll-out of 60

Virgin music stores in 60 days after the Virgin

name was licensed to Sanity.

In 2007, Itaoui become Sanity’s chief

executive. His rapid progression through the

company was typical of Blundy’s strategy

to develop leaders, including other Sanity

executives such as Shane Fallscheer and

Daniel Agostinelli.

Itaoui decided there had to be another

option for Sanity other than closure and he

offered to take the chain off Blundy’s hands for

nothing. In return he would take on the losses

and the risk of trying to turn it around.

“Brett thought I was insane,” recalls Itaoui.

“We had a debate about it. It was more about

Age 43

him making sure I knew what I was getting

Owner, Sanity Entertainment;

myself into. I said, ‘Mate, I get it. You’ve got

executive chairman,

$18 million to lose, I don’t.’”

Bras N Things, Honey Birdette,

In fact, Itaoui had plenty to lose. He had a

Mr Vitamins $500,000 stake in Sanity, two mortgages and,

Wealth: $210 million worse, he had put the plan forward without

consulting his wife. Quickly, he set about fixing

the business. Sanity’s profitable stores were

mostly in regional areas, so he shut around

100 stores and pared the business back to

HOW TO TURN $500,000 INTO from a single store in Melbourne. But even 156 outlets that now stretch from Karratha to

for him the challenges facing the 250-store Echuca. Sanity’s biggest competitor is JB Hi-Fi.

$210 MILLION IN SEVEN YEARS

group seemed insurmountable. The BB Retail Itaoui then had to motivate staff, who were

Capital board, of which Blundy was chairman, used to being part of a larger retail group

I

T WAS 2009 and around the world proposed spending $18 million to close it. working for a “god-like figure” and were now

economies were reeling from the biggest Sanity’s then 36-year-old chief executive, working for a “nobody”. After laying out a

shock to the financial system since the Ray Itaoui, was shocked. But what at the time strategy, Itaoui set targets, which if met meant

Great Depression. Retailers were suffering seemed like the ultimate vote of no confidence all 60 managers would go to Fiji. They did.

but few as much as businesses like Sanity turned out to be the opportunity of a lifetime. He introduced an annual gala and the