SOURCE: Blundy_Magnificent Seven.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Retail Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how a music retailer, Sanity, overcame the challenges of the Great Depression and a changing business model by applying the principle of putting customers first.
KEYWORDS: Retail, Customer Service, Business Turnaround, Innovation, Entrepreneurship
---

Great Depression. Retailers were suffering seemed like the ultimate vote of no confidence all 60 managers would go to Fiji. They did.

but few as much as businesses like Sanity turned out to be the opportunity of a lifetime. He introduced an annual gala and the

Entertainment, which after expanding to All Itaoui had to do was back himself, big time. first event featured Delta Goodrem and Guy

become, at one point, Australia’s largest music “It was hard. Up until this period of my Sebastian. But most importantly he applied

seller, faced a population reluctant to spend life I was always winning. All of a sudden the the simple principle Blundy had drilled into all

and a business model fast being disrupted by business is not doing well. All the other brands his staff: the customer comes first, always. “The

illegal file sharing, Apple’s iTunes store and Brett was involved in were absolutely killing it.” more successful you can make the customer,

music streaming services such as Spotify. Blundy, one of Australia’s most talented the more successful we’ll become, has come

In a year, the business’s $35 million profit retailers, founded Sanity and Bras N Things in the from Brett,” says Itaoui.

turned into a $21.1 million loss. 1980s, and has stakes in well-known companies How Itaoui applied this was through service

Billionaire Brett Blundy had built Sanity from Aventus, Adairs and Lovisa to BridgeClimb. and no-questions-asked refunds. “We want the

BLUNDY’S 10 CULTURAL COMMANDMENTS

1 . CAN DO ATTITUDE. You can inspire and achieve by your attitudes and actions. 2. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND PERFECT SERVICE. It’s about the

customer, always! We exist to satisfy the customer and do everything in our power to add value to the customer’s experience.

OCTOBER 2016 17

IUOATI

YAR

COVER STORY

customer for life, we don’t want it to be just a ALWAYS BE INNOVATIVE, EXCITING

$30 transaction.”

AND RELEVANT

“We genuinely treat our team like they’re

family and we want that replicated back to the

D

customer. To have a real connection and bond ANIEL AGOSTINELLI had several

with the customer, that is unique, that you’re difficult conversations with his parents

not going to get elsewhere.” when he began building his retail career,

Within a year, Sanity was profitable and which made him richer than he ever

Itaoui wanted to invest the excess cash. He could have imagined.

sought advice from Blundy. “He gave me The first was to tell his parents, Italian

some tips and said, ‘If I was you I’d invest in migrants, he wouldn’t be going to university

property.’ He said, ‘Don’t be Lebanese and go but instead would be working to build a

buy a $200,000 property, use your money and chain of music stores with a 22-year-old

do something serious.’ A couple of days later he entrepreneur called Brett Blundy. It was the

says, ‘I’m looking at buying a shopping centre in early 1980s and Agostinelli was only 17. Blundy

Mornington. Do you want to invest with me?’” had to convince Agostinelli’s parents he was

From there, Itaoui invested with Blundy in making the right decision. “It was a difficult

bulky goods centres that were spun off into conversation,” recalls Agostinelli.

Age 50

a public company, Aventus, which is now A few years later, he again sat down with his

capitalised at almost $1 billion. Itaoui’s stake Co-chief executive, parents. This time to ask if he could remortgage

is around 14 per cent. He’s also an investor in RCG Corporation their investment property to raise money to

several other BBRC companies of which he’s Wealth: $50 million invest in the expansion of the music stores.

executive chairman. Agostinelli also leveraged his own apartment

Sanity, with more than 1000 staff, continues having already put every cent he’d saved,

to perform solidly and reported a $10 million $46,000, into the business.

profit in the year to June 2015. not one of those smart guys,” he says, although “I promised my folks I’d pay the mortgage

“When you’re in a low-margin business he has done Harvard management courses out in five years,” says Agostinelli. “I paid it out

you’ve got to be clever about where you put through the Young Presidents Organisation, of in 18 months.”

your stores. Regionals work for us because the which he’s a member. Initially, the music chain now called Sanity

rent and the advertising are cheaper. However, His success has come through hard work, Entertainment didn’t perform well. “In 1993,

the big element is that the customer is a lot which Itaoui learnt from his parents. Their we decided that the industry needed a change

more engaged with our product than city folk. desire to do the best for their children meant and some theatre introduced to it,” he says.

There’s more time spent at home and more Ray and his elder brother were left with his So they revamped the look of Sanity’s stores,

family time in the country.” grandparents in Lebanon until Ray was four, taking out ceilings and putting a real tar road

Itaoui says he’s not going to lose sleep over while they established themselves in Australia. through the shops that resembled a back alley.

music’s digital future: “Sanity is what it is. My “I have a do-what-it-takes attitude. Winning’s “The look just resonated with the kids

job is to make sure it continues to run as a built into me; you’ve got to be the best. That and our music sales exploded. We then tried

great business that our customers love and our attitude resonated with Brett and Sanity.” another store and another and we ended up

suppliers want to partner with us.” Itaoui had a strict upbringing, with a heavy with over 250 stores in the Sanity business.”

Itaoui got a personal coach to help with focus on study. Sport was not allowed. He It taught Agostinelli, now co-chief executive