SOURCE: Blundy_Magnificent Seven.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Retail Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the rise of Sanity, a major Australian music retailer, and the career trajectories of its executives, highlighting the importance of innovation and adaptation in the retail industry.
KEYWORDS: Retail, Business Strategy, Innovation, Adaptation, Executives
---

suppliers want to partner with us.” Itaoui had a strict upbringing, with a heavy with over 250 stores in the Sanity business.”

Itaoui got a personal coach to help with focus on study. Sport was not allowed. He It taught Agostinelli, now co-chief executive

the move from being an executive in control rebelled, hung out with the wrong crowd and of Australia’s biggest footwear retailer RCG

to becoming a board director. He says the was expelled from Sydney’s Granville Boys Corporation, an early and important lesson:

coach also helped him become comfortable High School in his final year. However, he was retail stores must always be innovative, exciting

with his wealth. able to complete year 12 in Dubbo, where and relevant to customers.

In calculating Itaoui’s assets, BOSS estimates he had a long-distance relationship with a Between 2000 and 2005, Sanity was

that excluding Sanity, he’s worth $150 million. girl who’s mother happened to be a teacher. Australia’s largest music retailer, having grown

If Sanity, which now makes three-quarters of Her family let Itaoui live with them while he organically and through a string of acquisitions.

its money from TV series and movies, were attended school to complete the HSC. Agostinelli’s career opportunities and wealth

included then Itaoui’s wealth would be closer “That was a real pivotal point in my life. It mirrored its rise. He went from being Sanity’s

to $210 million. took me out of my environment. I learnt so general manager in 1993 to its chief executive

Itaoui, who’s personable and energetic, much about Australia, about family. It was a five years later, and also a millionaire.

downplays his success. “I’m very blessed. I’m unique opportunity that I treasure dearly.” Back then Sanity was part of Blundy’s

BLUNDY’S 10 CULTURAL COMMANDMENTS

3. RESPECT. We don’t call our people staff – they are part of the team. All ideas are encouraged and every individual counts. 4. CONTINUOUS

IMPROVEMENT. We strive for excellence and are never satisfied – always raising the bar to keep improving, even if it means changing everything we do.

18 OCTOBER 2016

ILLENITSOGA

LEINAD

publicly listed Brazin group, which owned a acquired Accent. Now the group has a market WHY TAKE THREE YEARS WHEN

number of retailers including Bras N Things. capitalisation of nearly $900 million, almost

YOU CAN DO IT IN ONE

In 1999, Agostinelli became Brazin’s chief 400 stores, 3000 staff and sales of $417 million.

operating officer. It’s the largest footwear retailer in Australia,

I

By the early 2000s, however, Agostinelli with one-fifth of the market. N THE YEAR that fast fashion jewellery

wanted to run his own business and an At RCG, Agostinelli shares the chief executive retailer Lovisa was launched, its chief

opportunity arose in 2003 to buy a youth- role with Hilton Brett. “It’s a very sizeable executive Shane Fallscheer set a staggering

footwear group called Ghetto Sport & Street. business with plenty of runway left in Australia pace as he rolled out 51 stores in 52 weeks

Agostinelli bought it in partnership with with almost every brand,” says Agostinelli. with the backing of veteran retailer Brett

Blundy and left Brazin to run it. RCG stores include Platypus, Hype, Athlete’s Blundy. Few Australian companies are so

Within three years, Ghetto Sport & Street Foot and Grounded. Agostinelli says the ambitious but in the age of fast fashion speed

needed more capital to expand, and it was challenge is finding new customers. To that to market is everything. Also, Lovisa’s initial

sold to Brazin. (Blundy had invested in Ghetto end RCG is rolling out Grounded stores that stores had achieved internal targets and with

through his private investment company target customers aged 30-plus. “I’m running the concept proven, the attitude of Fallscheer

Yoda Holdings, which also had a majority a campaign to find new customers and that is and Blundy was “why take two to three years

shareholding in Brazin.) what I feel every retailer in this country is now to do what you can do in one?”

The Ghetto sale opened the door to the next doing. If you don’t look after your customers Six years on Lovisa has 250 stores, of which

chapter in Agostinelli’s retail career at Accent somebody else will.” almost half are offshore, as it has expanded

Group and from there to RCG. Agostinelli still catches up with Blundy twice into 11 countries. During this period it also

Agostinelli says what he learned from a year. They continue to share some business became a publicly listed company, in which

working with Blundy, now a billionaire who interests. Blundy’s BBRC has a small investment Blundy retains the largest stake of 41 per cent.

runs the private BB Retail Capital, was how in RCG, while Agostinelli owns almost 5 per cent Fallscheer has a 12 per cent stake.

culture drives business success. “I learnt of the shoe retailer. Agostinelli also has minor In 2010, Lovisa evolved as an idea from

culture is everything and I’ve taken that shareholdings in the listed companies founded Diva, a tween jewellery chain, which Blundy’s

with me to where I am today,” he says. “Brett by Blundy’s BBRC: Aventus and Lovisa. BB Retail Capital had owned, and Fallscheer

expected tangible evidence that culture The journey, says Agostinelli, has never been managed for four years until 2009.

lived and that was through the following: about money even though he has indulged in a In that period, Diva grew quickly – at

commitment from his team, perseverance, passion for cars with a collection that includes one point it was delivering a return on

leading, acknowledging and overachieving.” an Aston Martin and a Mercedes. “It costs funds of almost 800 per cent – but there

Agostinelli quickly lists other lessons he’s nothing to be a good person,” he says. were already questions over its long-term

gleaned from 30 years in retail. One of the sustainability because of its narrow, young

biggest mistakes made, he says, is when customer base who relied on their parents’