SOURCE: Blundy_Magnificent Seven.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses Lovisa's successful retail strategy of quickly responding to changing global fashion trends and customer preferences.
KEYWORDS: retail strategy, fashion trends, customer responsiveness, international expansion, BBRC
---

changing global fashion trends and respond shop in Chermside and asked for the owner. down. “Nobody likes a bound and gagged

to customers. It’s a model common among Monaghan identifi ed herself. “He said, ‘You’re Santa but we had the biggest Christmas ever,”

international retailers such as H&M and Zara. a very brave woman.’ I thought, ‘Who the hell smiles Monaghan.

“If something isn’t working you need to are you!’ and then found out he was this retail Before HB, Monaghan worked in crisis

change it as fast as you can at store level king of Australia.” communications. Her strengths are product,

and you’ll quickly get an answer from your It was a meeting that led to Blundy’s BB Retail store design and motivating her team. On the

customer if you’ve made the right or wrong Capital buying into HB two years later, along operations side she still had much to learn and

decision.” with Ray Itaoui. Together they own about 80 so for 18 months she met Blundy every Sunday

Lovisa has performed solidly in an industry per cent. “We were looking at private equity and for breakfast at 8am to glean everything she

where there are regular casualties and it didn’t feel right,” says Monaghan. “What we could about running a business: from profit-

Fallscheer is confident of continuing to deliver needed was retail experience. The private equity and-loss statements to merchandise planning.

growth with the company’s international guys were in suits sitting in those big meeting Being part of a larger retail group has helped

expansion, while remaining No. 1 in its niche rooms and you’d think, ‘You don’t care about the with lease negotiations, logistics and provided

category. It’s a view shared by the market, with brand at all.’ I didn’t get that from Brett.” an environment in which to learn.

Lovisa’s stock trading near $3.50, well above HB is the latest brand in the BBRC stable on “BBRC is one of those environments where

the $2 share price it was sold at during the a path of global expansion; at the end of August you’re continuously learning. There’ll be times

public float. a flagship store opened in London’s Convent when I say, ‘I can’t go to that meeting, I don’t

“Our model is very transportable. We Garden, near retail powerhouse Zara. have time.’ But it’s the important over the

believed we would be successful, which HB, which sells bold, upmarket lingerie urgent. I’ll go to the meeting and all of a sudden

fortunately we have.” and bedroom accessories, was founded in a Harvard professor is presenting to you.”

BLUNDY’S 10 CULTURAL COMMANDMENTS

5. COMMUNICATE, COMMUNICATE, COMMUNICATE. Communication is both directions: listening as well as talking. Get communication going continuously

and in as many ways as you can. 6. COSTS ARE THE ENEMY. We continuously find ways to reduce expenses, cut our shrinkage and improve productivity.

20 OCTOBER 2016

NAHGANOM

ESIOLE

THE CEO WITH A 90-DAY MONEY Homemaker outlets are big-box stores with There Blundy had one small property that

tenants that are typically furniture or white housed Domayne but he had ambitions to

BACK GUARANTEE

goods retailers, such as Harvey Norman. build an enormous homemaker centre. The

However, Aventus, which owns 20 centres and hitch was acquiring nearby land.

W

HEN HE WAS 15, Darren Holland has a market capitalisation of almost $1 billion, In 2007, BBRC bought the land on which

used to stick pictures of houses on is evolving that mix to include medical and Holland developed the Kotara Homemaker

his bedroom wall rather than posters childcare centres, supermarkets, pharmacies Centre. A year later, amid the global financial

of rock stars. and gyms. Consequently, homemaker crisis, BBRC acquired Colonial First State

“I know it sounds unusual. Rather centres are going from being weekend only Property’s adjoining homemaker centre for

than having racing cars and heavy metal bands destinations to everyday destinations. $61.5 million. The Newcastle centre in Aventus’

up on the wall, I had the photos of my favourite When he applied for the centre manager’s portfolio is now worth more than $200 million.

homes in our local area. Not necessarily the job, Holland was a university graduate full Aventus has a team of 50 and every weekday

biggest or most impressive homes but the ones of self-belief, with a competitive streak that at 8.44am they join a conference call with

that were leading edge in design, the most overrode his inexperience. He was up against Holland, which he refers to as the “daily

innovative,” says Holland, who’s now chief applicants twice his age. In the interview, he huddle”. He sees this as an important part of

executive of Aventus Retail Property Fund. argued the older applicants would be set in the group’s culture.

Holland’s passion for property as an their ways. “I said, ‘I’m mouldable. You can Holland cites Blundy as another mentor

adolescent was fuelled by his father, a plumber. mould me into any shape you want.’” in his career; however, he has also pursued

They would drive around on weekends looking It was 1992, and Paul Marshall, one of his own self-development by reading widely

at real estate in Sydney’s north-west and later the co-founders of the Homemaker Retail on everything from goal setting to managing

he enrolled in a land economics degree at Group who was interviewing Holland, wasn’t teams to peak performance.

university. convinced. Holland got the job after he told He says goal setting is one of Aventus’ key

After graduating, Holland applied for his first Marshall he’d work free for the first 90 days. strengths. “We’ve produced in advance every

job as a homemaker centre manager. He didn’t “It was pretty brazen to offer a 90-day money- year, for the past 13 years, a goal book and it’s

know what such a centre was and queried his back guarantee on yourself,” recalls Holland. effectively our blueprint on how we’re going