SOURCE: Blundy_Magnificent Seven.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Retail Business Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses lessons learned by a retail executive, Agostinelli, and the growth and success of the Lovisa fashion jewelry business under Brett Blundy's leadership.
KEYWORDS: retail management, business growth, fashion retail, customer focus, leadership
---

Agostinelli quickly lists other lessons he’s nothing to be a good person,” he says. were already questions over its long-term

gleaned from 30 years in retail. One of the sustainability because of its narrow, young

biggest mistakes made, he says, is when customer base who relied on their parents’

retailers don’t share with staff the vision of income.

where they want the business to be. “If you Age 47 Fallscheer took a break in 2009, but soon

really want to grow, you must tell your people Chief executive, Lovisa came back to Blundy with a proposal for

where you’re going or they won’t come with Wealth: $50 million. Lovisa, which would target customers aged

you. We’re essentially a people business selling from their late teens into their 30s. Fallscheer

product not the other way around.” believed there remained a gap in the market

He says retailers must continuously learn for such a niche product retailer. “At that stage

while earning; remember it’s about the customers were typically buying fashion

customer, always; teach staff; be disciplined jewellery from apparel retailers, where it was

and contain costs; and lead, above all. a limited offering,” he says.

“One of the other things that Brett taught me Blundy backed the idea and Fallscheer

is that if you’re a leader, you’re on stage every became a partner with a 15 per cent stake in

day so make sure you lead. Staff look at what the business. “There was enough money on

their leaders are doing, at their behaviour, and the table to keep you awake at night if things

that becomes the norm. Keep the standard of didn’t go well,” says Fallscheer. “Brett’s a

whatever you’re doing at a higher level so staff believer that if there’s skin in the game then the

rise to what you expect as your normal level.” behaviours are very different to someone who’s

After Ghetto was sold, Agostinelli was a salaried employee.”

approached by A ccent Group. It had been In the next few years many Diva stores

a supplier to Ghetto and it wanted him to were closed or rebadged Lovisa and in 2014

develop its retail division. the company listed on the stockmarket.

At the time Accent had sales of $30 million Fallscheer began working with Blundy in

and one retail store. By 2015, its sales had 1991 as a 22-year-old music store manager.

grown to almost $200 million, with close to 100 He progressed quickly at Sanity

stores. In that same year, publicly listed RCG Entertainment, which from 2000 until 2005

OCTOBER 2016 19

REEHCSLLAF

ENAHS

COVER STORY

was Australia’s biggest music store chain. 2006 by Monaghan and Janelle Barboza, who’s

By the time he was 31, Fallscheer was chief since left . The idea was born after Monaghan

operating officer of Brazin, Blundy’s publicly and Barboza visited an adult shop to find a

listed company that owned businesses hen-party present. They decided women

including Sanity and Bras N Things. deserved better environments in which to

Fallscheer was Brazin’s COO for a little over purchase products, rather than stores, full of

a year when an opportunity arose in 2001 to men, selling hard-core DVDs, dildos and blow-

turn around two poorly performing music up dolls.

chains Sanity had bought from entrepreneur However, the concept for such a retail chain

Richard Branson in the United Kingdom. is not new. In Britain, Ann Summers stores

Fallscheer jumped at it. He moved to the UK cater to this market, as does Agent Provocateur,

to fix those businesses, which were renamed which operates in 13 countries. HB sits between

Sanity. Two years later it was sold to private these more established brands but its products

equity at a small profit. are more cutting edge or, as Monaghan would

After that Fallscheer wanted to keep working Age 40 say, fabulous. Moreover, she says the business

internationally and soon became COO of Rip Chief executive, works because it provides an environment

Curl’s United States division as well as the where a “woman can feel comfortable with

Honey Birdette

company’s global retail chairman. Then in her sexuality and for her that’s one of the best

Wealth: next

2005 Blundy came knocking to convince him places she can be”.

millionaire

to return to Australia to run Diva. HB has 48 stores in Australia with a team of

Working for Blundy, Fallscheer says there 220. It intends to open four stores in Britain ,

was always a culture of hard work and where it has five staff, by year end. There are

perseverance, which suited him. He admires also expansion plans for the United States.

SEX SELLS,

Blundy’s quick decision making and ability to There have been setbacks for HB. The

always be available to staff. “Brett was always company’s trademark was stolen in China by

MONEY TALKS

available, no matter how big or small any a German national. “It was like a Jeffrey Archer

conversation. It’s one of his strongest traits .” novel. We had people tracking him down trying

E

Blundy is no longer his boss, Fallscheer LOISE MONAGHAN recalls meeting to serve him with papers.” It was resolved.

reports directly to Lovisa’s board. billionaire retailer Brett Blundy in a Honey Then last Christmas HB fell foul of

When Lovisa was launched it was set up Birdette store in Brisbane in 2009. advertising standards with its “Silent Night”

as a vertically integrated retailer. It allows the On a series of store visits to his retail ad which featured a woman in red lingerie

company to quickly adapt its product range to brands, Blundy stepped inside an HB kneeling over a gagged Santa. The ad was taken

changing global fashion trends and respond shop in Chermside and asked for the owner. down. “Nobody likes a bound and gagged

to customers. It’s a model common among Monaghan identifi ed herself. “He said, ‘You’re Santa but we had the biggest Christmas ever,”