SOURCE: Blundy_Magnificent Seven.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Growth and Expansion
SUMMARY: The text discusses the growth and expansion of Blundy's retail businesses, including Bras N Things, Dusk, and Sanity Entertainment.
KEYWORDS: business growth, retail expansion, business management, entrepreneurship, retail industry
---

Hut and later the Walking Company. He’s also ‘Could we just stop learning for bit.’ Because in continuous improvement of the businesses

worked for several retail companies developed the growth was so big, I was continually being they manage and themselves. “We’re all doers

by billionaire Brett Blundy from Bras N Things given a role I didn’t think I was ready for.” and not talkers. We’re always up for it; we

to candle retailer Dusk, plus a period as chief Blundy is talking about BB Retail Capital, slayed that dragon. What’s next?”

executive of Brazin, once a publicly listed which was founded by her older brother, Brett,

holding company of Blundy’s. now a billionaire who is considered one of the

Brazin was delisted in 2007 after a tough country’s most talented retailers.

Age 50

decade. Blundy now chairs the private BB BBRC began with one music store in 1980,

Director, Bras N Things,

Retail Capital, under which many of the retail which became Australia’s biggest music retailer,

Lovisa, BB Retail

brands such as Bras N Things now sit. Sanity Entertainment. BBRC no longer owns

Milne says a lot was learned from the Brazin Sanity, but it owns or has substantial stakes in Capital, B&D Agricultural

experience. At one point there were shared many well-known brands, among them Bras N Investments

services for all the brands. “As soon as we went Things, Adairs, Dusk, Lovisa and BridgeClimb. Wealth: $15 million

private we split the brands up.” It also founded and built the $1 billion listed

Milne met Blundy in 1991. He went to work property group Aventus, in which it retains

for Blundy at Bras N Things but later left to turn a one third stake, and is a significant cattle

around Sunglass Hut in Australia. He moved to station owner.

work in Sunglass Hut’s US operation where he Blundy began working for BBRC when

became president shortly before the retailer was she was still at school, as a part-time casual

acquired by Luxottica. in the music business. By the age of 22 she

Afterwards, Milne returned to Blundy’s was full time at Bras N Things, which was set

operations and held different roles including up in 1987. She was one of the bra business’s

managing candle retailer Dusk, in which he first investors and put in $100,000 she had

BLUNDY’S 10 CULTURAL COMMANDMENTS

9. TRUST. Act in a manner that instils trust. 10 INTEGRITY. Operate with honesty and integrity. Never

tolerate a breach of integrity. 10 + 1 Do it now. Everything we do, we do with a sense of urgency.

22 OCTOBER 2016

ENLIM

GERG

YDNULB

YECART