SOURCE: Blundy_Magnificent Seven.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Real Estate Investment and Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges faced by the CEO of Aventus Retail Property Fund, including getting shareholders to focus on the long-term and convincing the investment community of the merits of the homemaker centre sector.
KEYWORDS: Aventus Retail Property Fund, Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT), Homemaker Centres, Retail Property Management, Shareholder Engagement
---

job as a homemaker centre manager. He didn’t “It was pretty brazen to offer a 90-day money- year, for the past 13 years, a goal book and it’s

know what such a centre was and queried his back guarantee on yourself,” recalls Holland. effectively our blueprint on how we’re going

parents, who also didn’t know. However, his audacity was understandable. He to achieve our strategy for the year. It gives my

was job-seeking in the middle of the recession team ultimate accountability and ownership.”

Australia “had to have”, when unemployment Since Aventus was publicly listed in 2015,

was more than 11 per cent. one of the biggest challenges for Holland is

Age 44 Marshall became one of Holland’s mentors getting shareholders to stay focused on the

Chief executive, as he progressed through the ranks of centre long term. Another challenge is convincing the

Aventus Retail manager, leasing manager, later working broader investment community of the merits

Property Fund in asset management and finally leading of the homemaker centre sector, of which

Wealth: $40 million acquisitions of homemaker centres. He was Aventus has 12 per cent.

involved in the 1998 public listing of the In the year to June, the group reported

Homemaker Retail Group, which three years its first full-year earnings since listing, with

later was bought by GPT. Then Marshall and funds from operations – a key performance

his business partner Rob Christie moved into measure for real estate investment trusts –

serviced offices, and Holland joined them, at $41 million; 4.5 per cent higher than the

though his passion was retail. prospectus forecast. It also paid out a better-

The opportunity to return to retail property than-anticipated 10.3¢ per unit distribution.

came in 2004, when he met entrepreneur Holland has a small shareholding in Aventus,

Brett Blundy who was seeking advice on while Blundy retains a third. Holland also owns

buying a homemaker centre, and it turned a third of Aventus Property Group, the fund

into a job interview. Blundy, now a billionaire, and asset manager that provides management

has built substantial wealth developing services to the property fund.

companies such as Sanity Entertainment and “Ownership is the ultimate form of leadership

Bras N Things. and management. I’ve got ownership in two

After 13 years working with Marshall and ways: I’ve invested a significant part of my

Christie, Holland joined Blundy’s BB Retail wealth in Aventus shares and I’ve been investing

Capital (BBRC). On his first day, Holland and in this sector via our wholesale syndicates for

Blundy visited Newcastle in New South Wales. the last five or six years.”

BLUNDY’S 10 CULTURAL COMMANDMENTS

7. ACCOUNTABILITY. Commit. Take ownership. Be responsible for your actions and results.

8. TEAMWORK. We succeed through the effort of our teams not individual performance.

OCTOBER 2016 21

DNALLOH

NERRAD

acquired a personal stake. For Milne, it was borrowed from the bank at 17 per cent interest.

never just a candle business but one selling In a decade, Blundy worked her way up the

ambience and an experience to customers. ranks from store manager to area manager,

As with other executives who have worked then state and national manager to general

with Blundy, Milne says a good retailer is about manager. Eventually, she became Bras N

creating theatre in stores and entertainment Things chief executive in 1995.

and excitement around a brand, as well as Ever since, she’s had skin in the game with

getting staff behind it. almost every business BBRC has built or

Milne, who retired from executive roles last invested in, except Adairs, even at times when

year, says he shares a similar leadership style she didn’t know what she was buying into.

Age 61 with Blundy. He believes the customer is most “Brett rang me up one day and said: ‘You

important, followed by store team members should give me as much money as you’re

Director, Dusk

with management at the bottom: “My style was prepared to lose and I can’t tell you anything

Wealth: $15 million

to lead from behind and be there to support about it.’” She took the leap. The business was

staff and be totally involved with the product.” the hugely successful BridgeClimb, whose

largest shareholder is founder Paul Cave.

Blundy says she’s always had a passion for

LEAD FROM BEHIND, SUPPORT ‘GIVE ME AS MUCH MONEY AS

managing people and believes this is where

her strength lies, as well as her deep knowledge

YOUR STAFF YOU’RE PREPARED TO LOSE’

about the retail industry.

After taking time off to have children and also

F F

OR GREG MILNE THERE’S A SIMPLE OR THE PAST THREE DECADES, TRACEY a brief stint as Sanity chief executive for a year

formula to building a successful retail Blundy has had one rule in her career: from 2004, she now works as a board director.

business: “Listen to the customer and give what got you there, won’t keep you there. Her directorships include Lovisa, BBRC and

them what they want. If a brand loses its “It’s a constant reminder to me that I have some of its cattle companies. She recently

way, you’re not listening to the customer.” to continue to develop and learn and stepped down from the Aventus board.

Milne spent 40 years in retail working educate myself. It’s not easy to keep up with a Blundy says the reason BBRC group has

for Myer, Grace Brothers, Dymocks, and as business that has grown at the speed we have,” been successful is because of her brother’s

president of United States-based Sunglass she says. “I remember having days thinking, vision and a talented team that always believes

Hut and later the Walking Company. He’s also ‘Could we just stop learning for bit.’ Because in continuous improvement of the businesses

worked for several retail companies developed the growth was so big, I was continually being they manage and themselves. “We’re all doers