SOURCE: BNT FORECAST WORKSHOP NOTES 31.10.12.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2013
TOPIC: Inventory Management and Forecasting
SUMMARY: The document discusses strategies for managing open-to-buy, forecasting, and ordering processes to optimize inventory and sales performance.
KEYWORDS: open-to-buy, forecasting, ordering, inventory management, data accuracy
---

[Document: BNT FORECAST WORKSHOP NOTES 31.10.12.docx]

BNT FORECAST WORKSHOP NOTES

31st October, 2012

Open To Buy

GM forecast secondary to sales, GM mustn’t be driver in OTB, Sales is the primary metric

17 weeks cover, more prior to Christmas, less post Christmas, if 17 the right number then probably on ideal at Sep and Mar. We need to determine ideals by month for the year

17 weeks – challenge – constantly – monthly and formally discuss at OTB meeting

5% or 10% or ?% contingency – review historical to assess what is right %, BB feels may be closer to 5 than 10 but should validate with some data

This % needs to be proportioned over the months taking into consideration January where the is no extra buys due to Sale

Must clarify what is ongoing each month. Need analysis by month by product for ongoing – based on sales and must benchmark against prior year

Ongoing doesn’t have an OTB – it has a demand requirement (sales rate and lead time) – demand driven

BNT currently has 197 styles at 21 weeks cover – this is a markdown waiting to happen

No OTB for ongoing – just an allowance allocated from OTB to satisfy demand

No rule re weeks of cover in DC re ongoing, OK to have buffer in DC

Always have a sceptical view that people make mistakes so perform checks regularly

Swimwear goes well till early Dec

Just marking down category will move the better sellers not the dogs

20% as strategy is not an answer to poor inventory management

Need to understand when a % off is applied what is the uplift in sales

IOP – designed to stop people from NOT taking markdowns i.e. gm% is not a factor

January should have WOC at 15 due to markdowns

Brett senses ideal closing units is too high – to be tested and validated. Not one specific method to validate

Forecasting & Ordering

Don't get hung up on total picture – get it right per product, per store, per customer etc and that will drive the right outcome

Order must be by sku not style

At BNT all products are seasonal until proven to be worthy of ongoing status

When reviewing orders, always look at the last week of sales to validate the average

There is not a 1 size fits all methodology for forecasting and ordering

Orders must be exact and not be rounded up ie) 473 units

Data to be accurate (constant house-keeping to ensure data accurate otherwise leads to errors at higher levels).

All ongoing lines which are not current to be removed from the reporting

Product descriptions need to be accurate. The data is to be perfect.

No fixed number of ongoing lines – it all depends – but continue to ‘weed the garden’

If there are data errors in the clear and obvious then highly likely to have data errors in clearer date levels

Block shapes – if a winner may end so need to continue to look for replacements

The rule applies unless it doesn’t – when discussing orders

We should challenge the DC weeks of cover – should it be 2?

Any sku that exceeds a year is definitely a problem, in case of fringe sizes only 2 solutions – discontinue or only carry in selected stores

DNR – Do Not Reorder

Buffer stock in DC – needs to be different levels for different sizes – not standard

WH cover is buffer designed for ‘screw up’ factor

Lead times of 20 weeks – not acceptable on ongoing lines – must move from supplier if they can’t change – 20 weeks is a killer

Supplier leadtimes to be tighter than 16 weeks – try for 12 weeks

Address moq’s – move to smaller orders more frequent

Reduced orders reduces risk of forecasting or trend changes

Cull sizes within style – eliminate fringes

Christmas lifts in ongoing but traditionally dips in Jan sale period. This needs to be factored into forecasting

Allocations to store reflects low and high – challenge whether this should be a more gradual allocation ie 65 stores to 202 stores, should there be a 120?

Maternity deserves to be at BNT BUT cannot carry ideal range and will need to be accepting that we will be out of stock or miss some sales

Maternity bras – too many colours. If we chase sales at expense of inventory levels then we will go on a path of failure

MOQ are wrong, Lead times are wrong – must address both

Over order of inventory i.e. inventory levels will cause pain for years

Out of stocks should not occur with ongoing lines – maternity is an exception

18 weeks lead time on briefs is not acceptable and any supplier that does should be validated – why?

Challenge – Does BNT have a bias towards over-stock – must change this bias

For sizing – unbalanced ordering reflects inaccurate forecasting/ordering in the past

Ensure we are not driven by MOQ

There needs to be a correlation between min/max and forecast sales

Nothing in the business should have a min/max of 1,000

Should range size 6 (fringe size) in twin packs – same for larger fringe sizes

Benchmark good bra (BB view) if we are selling < 1 per week per store then ? as it is not customer choice. Good would be 2 per week per store. This is not black and white and no rules are fixed. Just guidelines to use as benchmarks

Our buyers are not traditionally good negotiators. Suppliers push to what they want re lead time, moq and prices. We need to push back more and challenge. Good suppliers will agree and move closer to our requirements, the other suppliers should be reviewed whether we want to continue a partnership with.

Vanessa’s Actions:

Run report showing all product at more than 40 weeks cover (special exercise to focus on current problem)