SOURCE: Boris Groysberg HFD Presentation (21-Aug-20).docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Leadership Styles
SUMMARY: Examines the contrasting leadership styles of Scott and Amundsen, and the importance of balance, discipline, and focus in effective leadership.
KEYWORDS: leadership styles, discipline, focus, flexibility, strategy
---

[Document: Boris Groysberg HFD Presentation (21-Aug-20).docx]

At Apple, the question is commonly asked: “Are you killing your own dogs?”

The Norwegians reached the South Pole on 14 December 1911 (long before Scott, who was still trying to coordinate between horses and dogs relatively far away).

Amundsen’s story teaches us the power of fanatic discipline. However, his discipline almost undermined his journey, when he set out early in October, risked his team and had to turn back. This is the danger of extreme discipline without flexibility – if you choose the wrong strategy, you’re dead.

Scott’s downfall

On 17 January 1912, Scott’s team finally reached the South Pole where they found the Norwegian flag and a letter from Amundsen addressed to Scott. Amundsen asked Scott to let the Norwegian king know their team had made it to the South Pole first, apparently thinking he would never make it back alive.

On the journey home, Scott’s team started unravelling as the weather became more brutal.

One member, PO Evans, would need to wake up one hour early because it took him so long to put his bleeding feet into his boots. He started asking the others to leave him behind and finally died on 17 February.

On 17 March, team member Oates excused himself, walked as far as possible and stopped, allowing himself to freeze to death. He had been struggling and knew he was holding back the team.

On 21 March, 11 miles from the supply depot, the remaining three members were stuck in a snowstorm, ran out of supplies and froze to death. Recall that Scott had earlier changed his plans and moved the supply depot closer to home base.

As Amundsen wrote: “Victory awaits him who has everything in order, luck some people call it. Defeat is certain for him who has neglected to take necessary precautions in time; this is called bad luck.”

What do Scott and Amundsen tell us about leadership?

In some situations, you’re better off with Scott (balanced leadership) – for example, where you need hedging and flexibility. However, in other circumstances you’re better off with Amundsen.

11% of leaders can adopt both styles, otherwise we tend to have preferences.

Either way, it’s death to be a lax leader (vague goals, ad-hoc strategies, undisciplined execution).

Steve Jobs was an extreme leader with unbelievable focus.

For example, while the iPad was in development, Jobs stopped its production and forced his team to stop and work on the iPhone: “I put the tablet on the shelf because the phone was more important”. They eventually restarted work on the iPad once the iPhone was complete.

Steve would ask, “How many things have you said no to?”

Focus means saying no to something you think is a phenomenal idea in order to concentrate all your energies on something more important.

Key takeaways:

One style isn’t necessarily better than the other. Be aware of leadership styles and surround yourself with people who have different styles.

Extreme leadership is extremely hard.

Four key questions (answered on a scale of 1-5 from least to most true):

In our team, do we excel because we have great clarity of purpose?

Are we extremely focused?

Do we obsess and go all-in on the few things that we do?

Am I extremely good at saying no?