SOURCE: Botanik AAR Aug 15 Dusk.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.06 HFT - AAR\30 Sep examples
TOPIC: Product Launch Strategy
SUMMARY: This text analyzes the execution and challenges of a product launch for the Botanik range, including issues with communication, training, and in-store execution.
KEYWORDS: product launch, in-store execution, customer communication, training, marketing strategy
---

A mistake was made on the batch sheet for the melt flakes. This was due to poor communication. John was not there to develop the batch sheets as he normally would have. John told production, the melts flakes were to be made in powder form as we did for the tealights. John did not tell them that the fragrance strength was the same as a melt and not tealight. The batch sheet was raised at the tealight strength.

In-store execution

What worked?

Video – aesthetic of final video was good but we didn’t set a goal/strategy of what we wanted to achieve in terms of targets from different channels online - so judging its effectiveness is difficult.

Visually in store the product looks great.

Printed training manual was a good idea and was again well received by the retail team.

Team training booklet – was very specific with additional detail.  F&B document was like an internal press release to team to get them engaged which also worked well. The quick reference card, team discount offer, seed disk for each team member in an envelope was handed out at team meeting

POS and photo shoot was on time

What didn’t work? What was rushed?

There was incorrect information given to customers - The wax, fragrance and wicks in the Botanik range are all natural. The burn and treatment of the candle is very different to anything in the rest of our range. The instruction given to the customers was for a paraffin wax candle. This meant customers over-trimmed the wicks with too great a frequency. This resulted in a poor burn quality with the candle tunnelling and not creating a hot enough wax pool to throw the already subtle fragrances without top notes.

John’s discussions with a variety of shop team members, limited as it was, showed they didn’t get the product any more than the customers did. They didn’t seem to understand the concept of ‘all natural’ and why it is better. This may have changed now since the product has been around a while.

Laura also commented that she thinks the retail team didn’t understand the product.

Social media side of the launch was rushed

Launched amongst SALE meant that the SALE tables were full of product whereas Botanik was a tighter range.

Launched originally on table 2.  Should have been at the front of the store.

Launched with 2 candle frontlines at the same time (Artisan and $10 glass jars)

Needed some demo seed disks because the team were told not to leave seed disk on top of display candle (needed to avoid exposure to light) but then when you wanted to explain the seed disk to customers the team had to open another product to show the seed disk

Due to box and candle being same colour, the candles got lost as can be seen in this picture.

Should have had solution display at the top of the table.

POS didn’t work because there was not enough emphasis on reusing the pot to grow daisies.

Black & white F&B sign had too much text and was not engaging.

POS – pink and white candle hard to see on white background A3

Customers did not understand the melt flakes.

What would we repeat?

Team training manuals in booklet format.

Packaging up information to team in a more exciting way.

Video – but only for products where there is unique benefit (eg seed disks, container can be used for flowers).

Customers responded to wax melts but quality issues have put them off.

What would we review?

Products do not sell themselves no matter how good they look and the customer will only buy a second time if they have a good experience. The candles have to perform and more effort needs to go into product training, translating in customer understanding of the product to maximise their experience.  Both were undercooked for the Botanik range.

Need to have more constant communication between product and marketing – set up a launch meeting and follow up regularly

Timing on social media – need to have a more structured plan.  This was the first one with Whybins ( new agency) and since then we have already reviewed process and developed it further.

Product looks good in legacy stores but colour palate does not fit with Glow stores.

Instore POS does not reflect what product is about – doesn’t highlight the fact you can use the seed disks – product doesn’t sell itself – requires team to sell the product

Diffuser is not really obvious as to what it is unless it is turned on.

Need to review pricing hierarchy visually.

Need to educate store teams on the product raw materials.

Launch Date?

Wrong time of year selling a product with flower seeds (ie winter)

Not sure whether launching it in SALE period was the right decision.

Need to understand what customers see as “added value” – what would they actually pay for?

Communication to customer was lacking about how the product actually worked in terms of using the candle and then planting the seed disk and also why it was at the price it was.

Imagery used was strong – could have been better executed on social media – to tell the story of the product – we should have talked to Customers a bit more.

Customer Feedback

What worked?

Customers loved the look of the packaging.

What didn’t work?

The customer doesn’t get this product from either concept or price. They definitely don’t understand the technical deviation from the usual dusk candles. Most of the complaints received are about candles tunnelling and a lack of scent throw

Comments made to John from a number of people:

Your wax is very hard and it looks like it has a disease.

I could buy cheaper and better from any craft fair, there I would get real Soy wax with essential oils.

They are very expensive but to me they look cheap and nasty.