SOURCE: Botanik AAR Aug 15 Dusk.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.06 HFT - AAR\30 Sep examples
TOPIC: New Product Launch Review
SUMMARY: This document analyzes the unsuccessful launch of Botanik, a new line of candles, and identifies key issues in project management, communication, and product development.
KEYWORDS: product launch, new product development, project management, communication, customer feedback
---

Botanik After Action Review – August 2015

The purpose of this document is to collate feedback from Product, Planning, Marketing, Online, Factory, Finance, Business Development and Retail teams on why the Botanik launch was unsuccessful.

Overview-

Botanik was a line developed for release in Q4 F15. It was our 1st attempt to differentiate and offer something completely new to our customers. In the development line behind Botanik’s launch were several much larger and strategically more important releases which were to replace 70% of the current Signature Candle offering.

In hindsight, we rushed this development and would have been far smarter to wait until 1st H F16 to launch closer to Xmas.

Product development  - Sample to volume.

John’s ( John McFee, Factory Manager ) first recollection of what was to become the Botanik range was  in March 2014. The original date for release was supposed to be September 2014 but we were unable to find containers that met the project brief so it was put on the back burner.

It was next raised as a project in late November 2014. The release date was six months later. On the surface it looked fine. Six months is the usual development time for a standard range. The concept had grown and become much more complex. Everything was new and the process was much more complex than a standard project. Unfortunately the timelines were not extended when they should have been. Candles are a very technical product and we seem to have forgotten this along the way.  We did already have the basics of an all-vegetable wax mix from the earlier development. The only thing that changed in the brief was the fragrances were to be natural, preferably essential oil blends that Laura had seen advertised on the internet by an overseas retailer.

What didn’t work? What was rushed?

Project management was poor - Everything was rushed. Every critical point milestone was missed. A series of unavoidable events occurred so no one person managed the project.  It was bad timing all round. The project started at the same time as the busy Christmas period, including January sales. Laura ( Laura Fletcher Senior Buyer/Developer) was away in China for much of February. By March the release was only two months away with very too much still left to be finalised.

Communication became confused – The first couple of week’s communication was good. Regular meetings kept everyone informed. As Christmas drew near this fell into a hole. As time progressed and Laura was less available, more product team members became involved the waters became very muddy.

Concept – The initial concept of a simple natural wax product was quite straight forward and had some resonance with our customer base. We knew this from the original Greenwax program.

It morphed into an overly complicated and expensive high range product, John has his doubts about how much research and hard analytical data was actually used to determine what the customer wanted and how much they were prepared to pay for it.

At least to some degree, this range was transformed by our own hubris ambitions in the belief that the demand customers had for natural products meant they would pay high prices. It seems to be more an emotional call than empirical evidence based. What happened mirrors our previous experience with this type of product is in line other ‘organic’ products on the market. Notionally people like the concept until they see the price. It is a niche market.

Fragrance development and selection is a critical function and all established processes and procedures were ignored or discarded.

There was a false start because essential oils were investigated as part of the brief. This avenue was discarded when it was realised how long nice oil blends would take to develop. John has said that he believes he took too long to make that call.

By the time the brief was changed to natural fragrances, it was late December. Only the local supplier ABP could respond to the brief which limited choice for fragrances.

Fragrance samples were received mid-January 2015. At this time fragrance selection had become the sole domain of the product team without external input. Apart from the doubtfulness of this practice, the major issue was that fragrance selection did not occur until late February after Laura returned from China.

With the fragrance development timeline in disarray, the usual 6 week technical testing of the fragrances did not occur. The only testing that could have occurred was with the 25ml samples submitted by the fragrance company. These were not returned to the factory.

Fragrance testing occurred only once the bulk delivery for production arrived. There was no time to get the 1kg samples required before ordering. There was only just enough time left to place order in bulk fragrances in time for production. As it turned out, the fragrances are extremely poor performing and a major factor in the product not selling. (Post selection fragrance testing is considered to be a critical to the product control function. Rushed development has seen this process cut out for the last 4 product releases. All have had problems which needed to be fixed on the production line, costing time and money. Not allowing for this testing seems to have become the norm. Prior the last 12 months, this was considered unthinkable)

When the fragrance testing was complete, the factory did get fragrance throw in the products. It was reported that the fragrances were not overly powerful. It was advised that we were going for more subtle fragrance notes. Again this defies our history which clearly shows that the fragrances that sell are the ones with the stronger fragrance notes