SOURCE: Botanik AAR Aug 15 Dusk.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.06 HFT - AAR\30 Sep examples
TOPIC: Product Development & Manufacturing
SUMMARY: The text discusses challenges in the development and manufacturing of the Botanik product, including issues with fragrance, packaging, and rushed testing.
KEYWORDS: product development, manufacturing, fragrance, packaging, testing
---

The biggest issue for fragrance throw in this product is that the subtle fragrances selected have a high percentage of volatile oils with a flash point under 61 degree. This natural wax has to be poured at 90 degrees. The top notes flash off as the candle is cooling leaving it without any initial olfactive kick.

Hardware & Packaging Development – As a general commentary, the pots serving as candle containers were relatively simple but everything else was overly complicated and expensive to make and pack.  John thinks we lost the concept of natural simplicity.

The factory was given one hardware set for testing and development. This should always be at least 6 sets. When the factory asked for more, they were told to make do. This means shortcuts in testing have to be used. (This has become the norm in the last 12 months).

The factory had to make decisions on packing times and methodologies with limited or no samples to work with. The packaging developed was the most complicated in dusk product history.

Product development was also a challenge for the Product team

Particularly with the sourcing of the containers – the initial vision changed from start to finish.  It took 5 samples from the supplier to get the right container and we had to keep rethinking it.  This pushed back timeframes on the project.

It was tough dealing with a bag supplier as we had never done this before – in the end we went with Outstanding Design which cost more.

Artwork also was a challenge – it was when we were changing the way we dealt with Magenta ( local Perth design agency) and it took them a while to get how to operate in the new way

Wax and testing side of product development was rushed.  It was not done to our normal standard.  It turned out that we got yellow wax and it was very hard in texture.  If we had known the fragrance would turn the wax yellow we would have selected different fragrances.  But then it was too late to change them.

Testing was rushed – not started until close to production.

Wax formula developed in isolation of fragrance development.

Video –  We had an early meeting about Botanik and then it seemed to be forgotten about and then suddenly the video was needed.

What would we repeat?

Pleased with overall look of product.  Keep look and feel

Packaging was eye catching and well received by the retail team.

Concept was strong, just not executed properly

What would we review?

Need better inter-department communication on the new products so that items with longer production times (eg videos) can be done with plenty of time and not rushed.

We should not develop a major release range over the Christmas period and when key people will be overseas. In the case of Botanik it cost about two months of development time in an already impossible timeframe.

In recent times product development has become an exercise in product aesthetics. We either have stopped caring about candle quality or forgotten that it is a technical product that needs time to develop and test properly. Rushing the process and taking shortcuts results in a poor quality candle. In turn, a quick range death no matter how attractive it looks. We need to be thinking further ahead. Botanik candles are poor quality due to a lack of technical development and testing time.

Everybody’s sense of smell is different; we all have blank spots in our Olfactive perception. Similarly we all have different emotional responses to fragrances with culture playing a big part. If fragrance selection is done by one or two people then it is inevitable that two things will happen. All the products will start to smell the same and they will only appeal to a small section of the population. This happens regardless of how much good taste these people think they have. Fragrance is a very complex area. They should be selected for the broadest appeal and they should cater to a range of tastes.  The last 4 ranges perfumes have been selected by the same three people, based on their personal taste. The majority of feedback about the Botanik range is that they smell dirty or have no smell.

Product production

John was away in China for the critical production period. This made it difficult for the factory because of the substandard technical development & testing caused issues and John was not readily available to resolve those problems.

What didn’t work? What was rushed?

The hardware and particularly the packaging were too late for efficient production. Four weeks of production had to be completed in two weeks. This resulted in extra hours being worked at penalty rates.

Hardware had problems. The flower pot containers arrived with the base bungs inserted the wrong way. Everyone had to be removed and turned around. There were significant shade variations in the pot colours. They had to be sorted so that the stores received consistent colours. These problems cost valuable time and money

The printed discs arrived incorrect and had to be changed out.

An unexpected problem arose at the start of bulk production. The candle wax aerated and rose like soufflés in the jar. Testing found that there was an exothermic chemical reaction between the bonding agent and the fragrance. There was no time to develop a new wax and the fragrance was on hand so the base could not be modified. The only option was to take the bonding agent out of the wax formula. The bonding agent enhances fragrance throw and prevents fragrance lock in natural waxes. This problem did not show up in the shortened tests but would have if the whole testing process could have been followed.