SOURCE: Botanik AAR Aug 15 Dusk.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.06 HFT - AAR\30 Sep examples
TOPIC: Product Quality Feedback
SUMMARY: The text provides detailed feedback on the quality, pricing, and customer appeal of the Botanik product line, highlighting areas for improvement.
KEYWORDS: product quality, customer feedback, product development, pricing, product launch
---

Your wax is very hard and it looks like it has a disease.

I could buy cheaper and better from any craft fair, there I would get real Soy wax with essential oils.

They are very expensive but to me they look cheap and nasty.

The pots are pretty but too expensive

Looks like something I would buy at Bunnings.

If I wanted a plant pot to plant some seeds, I would go to Waldecks.

The candles smell like dirt.

They all smell the same.

I wouldn’t buy one, too much packaging to be environmentally friendly.

Customers don’t know how to use the melt flakes.

Fragrances used are very different to what we have done in the past – more subtle – probably suits a particular taste – they are the sort of fragrances you have in a beauty salon.

What would we review?

Scent throw on melt flakes – too low (this was mentioned by a few of the department heads)

There were issues around how the product was burning – tunnelling (this was mentioned by a few of the department heads).

Feedback was the product was too expensive and the team were not shown how to sell the product properly.

The product was over engineered.

Team member feedback on Botanik oil burner (from a few different store team members) – the product had a really strong plastic/chemical aroma once you started using it (after it heated up).  Happened with both normal melts and the melt flakes.

It is all well and good exercising artistic flare but if the customer doesn’t understand the product or the additions make it too expensive, they won’t buy it.

A product that looks good is essential. It should be done to a level that maximises margin and minimises cost. The customer will only pay extra if they see value for money. This is not the case in the Botanik range. The feedback suggests they see no value for the extra cost incurred.

Other comments

There was no overall campaign to launch the product so it lacked consistency of message about the product.

A project that is not properly coordinated and managed will result in compressed time line which adds a significant cost burden.

Summary –

As can be seen, there were several big lessons to be learned from Botanik. The team have had open discussions about what should have been done. The biggest lesson was the lack of  timeline to follow and once we were missing critical deadlines, we should have delayed launch to remedy the issues faced.

Subsequent launches in the Candle category of Anjou, Sixth Sense & Sense of Place have been executed. While we did experience some late deliveries in specific products, absent were any of the process errors outlined above and we have experienced above forecast sales for Anjou & Sixth Sense, with Sense of Place only in stores for a week at time of writing.

The relaunch of our volume basics line for Q3 F16 is now running to a project timeline with regular updates from each team working on the project to avoid the major roadblocks we encountered with Botanik.