SOURCE: Branding in the Digital Age_ You’re Spending Your Money in All the Wrong Places.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Consumer Experience Research
SUMMARY: The company conducted in-depth research on consumers' digital shopping experiences to identify key pain points and opportunities for improving their marketing strategy.
KEYWORDS: consumer experience, digital shopping, market research, marketing strategy
---

they tended to turn to review sites for troubleshooting advice.

What they see.

To better understand consumers’ experience, the team unleashed a battery of hired

shoppers who were given individual assignments, such as to look for a TV for a new home;

replace a small TV in a bedroom; or, after seeing a TV at a friend’s house, go online to learn

more about it. The shoppers reported what their experience was like and how the

company’s brand stacked up against competitors’. How did its TVs appear on search

engines? How visible were they on retail sites? What did consumer reviews reveal about

them? How thorough and accurate was the available information about them?

Instead of focusing on how to allocate

spending across media, marketers should

target stages in the decision journey.

The results were alarming but not unexpected. Shoppers trying to engage with any of the

brands—whether the company’s or its competitors’—had a highly fractured experience.

Links constantly failed, because page designs and model numbers had changed but the

references to them had not. Product reviews, though they were often positive, were scarce

on retail sites. And the company’s TVs rarely turned up on the first page of a search within

the category, in part because of the profusion of broken links. The same story had emerged

during the one-on-one surveys. Consumers reported that every brand’s model numbers,

product descriptions, promotion availability, and even pictures seemed to change as they

moved across sites and into stores. About a third of the shoppers who had considered a

specific TV brand online during the evaluate stage walked out of a store during the buy

stage, confused and frustrated by inconsistencies.

This costly disruption of the journey across the category made clear that the company’s

new marketing strategy had to deliver an integrated experience from consider to buy and

beyond. In fact, because the problem was common to the entire category, addressing it

might create competitive advantage. At any rate, there was little point in winning on the

other touch-point battlegrounds if this problem was left unaddressed.

What they say.

Finally, the team focused on what people were saying online about the brand. With social

media monitoring tools, it uncovered the key words consumers used to discuss the

company’s products—and found deep confusion. Discussion-group participants frequently

gave wrong answers because they misunderstood TV terminology. Product ratings and

consumer recommendations sometimes triggered useful and extensive discussions, but

when the ratings were negative, the conversation would often enter a self-reinforcing

spiral. The company’s promotions got some positive response, but people mostly said little

about the brand. This was a serious problem, because online advocacy is potent in the

evaluate stage.

Taking Action

The company’s analysis made clear where its marketing emphasis needed to be. For the

pilot launch, spending was significantly shifted away from paid media. Marketing inserted

links from its own site to retail sites that carried the brand, working with the retailers to

make sure the links connected seamlessly. Most important, click-stream analysis revealed

that of all the online retailers, Amazon was probably the most influential touch point for

the company’s products during the evaluate stage. In collaboration with sales, which

managed the relationship with Amazon, marketing created content and links to engage

traffic there. To encourage buzz, it aggressively distributed positive third-party reviews

online and had its traditional media direct consumers to online environments that

included promotions and social experiences. To build ongoing postpurchase relationships

and encourage advocacy, it developed programs that included online community

initiatives, contests, and e-mail promotions. Finally, to address the inconsistent

descriptions and other messaging that was dissuading potential customers at the point of

purchase, the team built a new content-development and -management system to ensure

rigorous consistency across all platforms.

How did the CDJ strategy work? The new TV became the top seller on Amazon.com and the

company’s best performer in retail stores, far exceeding the marketers’ expectations.

A Customer Experience Plan

As our case company found, a deep investigation of the decision journey often reveals the

need for a plan that will make the customer’s experience coherent—and may extend the

boundaries of the brand itself. The details of a customer experience plan will vary

according to the company’s products, target segments, campaign strategy, and media mix.

But when the plan is well executed, consumers’ perception of the brand will include

everything from discussions in social media to the in-store shopping experience to

continued interactions with the company and the retailer.

For instance, Apple has eliminated jargon, aligned product descriptions, created a rich

library of explanatory videos, and instituted off-line Genius Bars, all of which ensure

absolute consistency, accuracy, and integration across touch points. Similarly, Nike has

moved from exhorting consumers to “Just Do It” to actually helping them act on its motto

—with Nike+ gear that records and transmits their workout data; global fund-raising races;

and customized online training programs. Thus its customers’ engagement with the brand

doesn’t necessarily begin or end with a purchase. And millions of consumers in Japan have

signed up to receive mobile alerts from McDonald’s, which provide tailored messages that

include discount coupons, contest opportunities, special-event invitations, and other

unique, brand-specific content.

Up to 90% of spend goes to advertising

and retail promotions. Yet the single most

powerful impetus to buy is often someone

else’s advocacy.

These companies are not indiscriminate in their use of the tactics available for connecting

with customers. Instead they customize their approaches according to their category,

brand position, and channel relationships. Apple has not yet done much mining of its

customer data to offer more-personalized messaging. Nike’s presence on search engines

shows little distinctiveness. McDonald’s hasn’t focused on leveraging a core company

website. But their decisions are deliberate, grounded in a clear sense of priorities.

New Roles for Marketing

Developing and executing a CDJ-centric strategy that drives an integrated customer

experience requires marketing to take on new or expanded roles. Though we know of no