SOURCE: Branding in the Digital Age_ You’re Spending Your Money in All the Wrong Places.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Digital Marketing Strategy
SUMMARY: The article discusses the shift from the traditional marketing funnel to the consumer decision journey (CDJ) and its implications for marketing strategy.
KEYWORDS: consumer decision journey, marketing allocation, advocacy, owned media, earned media
---

advocate-buy loop that skips the consider and evaluate stages entirely.

The Journey in Practice

Although the basic premise of the consumer decision journey may not seem radical, its

implications for marketing are profound. Two in particular stand out.

First, instead of focusing on how to allocate spending across media—television, radio,

online, and so forth—marketers should target stages in the decision journey. The research

my colleagues and I have done shows a mismatch between most marketing allocations and

the touch points at which consumers are best influenced. Our analysis of dozens of

marketing budgets reveals that 70% to 90% of spend goes to advertising and retail

promotions that hit consumers at the consider and buy stages. Yet consumers are often

influenced more during the evaluate and enjoy-advocate-bond stages. In many categories

the single most powerful impetus to buy is someone else’s advocacy. Yet many marketers

focus on media spend (principally advertising) rather than on driving advocacy. The

coolest banner ads, best search buys, and hottest viral videos may win consideration for a

brand, but if the product gets weak reviews—or, worse, isn’t even discussed online—it’s

unlikely to survive the winnowing process.

The second implication is that marketers’ budgets are constructed to meet the needs of a

strategy that is outdated. When the funnel metaphor reigned, communication was one-

way, and every interaction with consumers had a variable media cost that typically

outweighed creative’s fixed costs. Management focused on “working media spend”—the

portion of a marketing budget devoted to what are today known as paid media.

This no longer makes sense. Now marketers must also consider owned media (that is, the

channels a brand controls, such as websites) and earned media (customer-created

channels, such as communities of brand enthusiasts). And an increasing portion of the

budget must go to “nonworking” spend—the people and technology required to create and

manage content for a profusion of channels and to monitor or participate in them.

More than 60% of consumers of facial skin

care products do online research about

them after purchase—a touch point

entirely missing from the funnel model.

Launching a Pilot

The shift to a CDJ-driven strategy has three parts: understanding your consumers’ decision

journey; determining which touch points are priorities and how to leverage them; and

allocating resources accordingly—an undertaking that may require redefining

organizational relationships and roles.

One of McKinsey’s clients, a global consumer electronics company, embarked on a CDJ

analysis after research revealed that although consumers were highly familiar with the

brand, they tended to drop it from their consideration set as they got closer to purchase. It

wasn’t clear exactly where the company was losing consumers or what should be done.

What was clear was that the media-mix models the company had been using to allocate

marketing spend at a gross level (like the vast majority of all such models) could not take

the distinct goals of different touch points into account and strategically direct marketing

investments to them.

The company decided to pilot a CDJ-based approach in one business unit in a single

market, to launch a major new TV model. The chief marketing officer drove the effort,

engaging senior managers at the start to facilitate coordination and ensure buy-in. The

corporate VP for digital marketing shifted most of his time to the pilot, assembling a team

with representatives from functions across the organization, including marketing, market

research, IT, and, crucially, finance. The team began with an intensive three-month market

research project to develop a detailed picture of how TV consumers navigate the decision

journey: what they do, what they see, and what they say.

What they do.

Partnering with a supplier of online-consumer-panel data, the company identified a set of

TV shoppers and drilled down into their behavior: How did they search? Did they show a

preference for manufacturers’ or retailers’ sites? How did they participate in online

communities? Next the team selected a sample of the shoppers for in-depth, one-on-one

discussions: How would they describe the stages of their journey, online and off? Which

resources were most valuable to them, and which were disappointing? How did brands

enter and leave their decision sets, and what drove their purchases in the end?

The research confirmed some conventional wisdom about how consumers shop, but it also

overturned some of the company’s long-standing assumptions. It revealed that off-line

channels such as television advertising, in-store browsing, and direct word of mouth were

influential only during the consider stage. Consumers might have a handful of products

and brands in mind at this stage, with opinions about them shaped by previous experience,

but their attitudes and consideration sets were extremely malleable. At the evaluate stage,

consumers didn’t start with search engines; rather, they went directly to Amazon.com and

other retail sites that, with their rich and expanding array of product-comparison

information, consumer and expert ratings, and visuals, were becoming the most important

influencers. Meanwhile, fewer than one in 10 shoppers visited manufacturers’ sites, where

most companies were still putting the bulk of their digital spend. Display ads, which the

team had assumed were important at the consider stage, were clicked on only if they

contained a discount offer, and then only when the consumer was close to the buy stage.

And although most consumers were still making their purchases in stores, a growing

number were buying through retail sites and choosing either direct shipping or in-store

pickup.

The research also illuminated consumers’ lively relationships with many brands after

purchase—the enjoy-and-advocate stage so conspicuously absent from the funnel. These

consumers often talked about their purchases in social networks and posted reviews

online, particularly when they were stimulated by retailers’ postpurchase e-mails. And

they tended to turn to review sites for troubleshooting advice.

What they see.

To better understand consumers’ experience, the team unleashed a battery of hired

shoppers who were given individual assignments, such as to look for a TV for a new home;