SOURCE: Branding in the Digital Age_ You’re Spending Your Money in All the Wrong Places.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Digital Marketing Strategy
SUMMARY: Developing an integrated customer experience requires marketing to take on new roles as orchestrator, publisher, and marketplace intelligence leader.
KEYWORDS: customer decision journey, content management, digital marketing roles
---

website. But their decisions are deliberate, grounded in a clear sense of priorities.

New Roles for Marketing

Developing and executing a CDJ-centric strategy that drives an integrated customer

experience requires marketing to take on new or expanded roles. Though we know of no

company that has fully developed them, many, including the consumer electronics firm we

advised, have begun to do so. Here are three roles that we believe will become increasingly

important:

Orchestrator.

Many consumer touch points are owned-media channels, such as the company’s website,

product packaging, and customer service and sales functions. Usually they are run by parts

of the organization other than marketing. Recognizing the need to coordinate these

channels, one of our clients, a consumer durables company, has moved its owned-media

functions into the sphere of the chief marketing officer, giving him responsibility for

orchestrating them. Along with traditional and digital marketing communications, he now

manages customer service and market research, product literature design, and the product

registration and warranty program.

Publisher and “content supply chain” manager.

Marketers are generating ever-escalating amounts of content, often becoming publishers—

sometimes real-time multimedia publishers—on a global scale. They create videos for

marketing, selling, and servicing every product; coupons and other promotions delivered

through social media; applications and decision support such as tools to help customers

“build” and price a car online. One of our clients, a consumer marketer, realized that every

new product release required it to create more than 160 pieces of content involving more

than 20 different parties and reaching 30 different touch points. Without careful

coordination, producing this volume of material was guaranteed to be inefficient and

invited inconsistent messaging that would undermine the brand. As we sought best

practices, we discovered that few companies have created the roles and systems needed to

manage their content supply chain and create a coherent consumer experience.

Uncoordinated publishing can stall the decision journey, as the consumer electronics firm

found. Our research shows that in companies where the marketing function takes on the

role of publisher in chief—rationalizing the creation and flow of product related content—

consumers develop a clearer sense of the brand and are better able to articulate the

attributes of specific products. These marketers also become more agile with their content,

readily adapting it to sales training videos and other new uses that ultimately enhance

consumers’ decision journey.

Marketplace intelligence leader.

As more touch points become digital, opportunities to collect and use customer

information to understand the consumer decision journey and knit together the customer

experience are increasing. But in many companies IT controls the collection and

management of data and the relevant budgets; and with its traditional focus on driving

operational efficiency, it often lacks the strategic or financial perspective that would

incline it to steer resources toward marketing goals.

More than ever, marketing data should be under marketing’s control. One global bank

offers a model: It created a Digital Governance Council with representatives from all

customer-facing functions. The council is led by the CMO, who articulates the strategy, and

attended by the CIO, who lays out options for executing it and receives direction and

funding from the council.

We believe that marketing will increasingly

THIS ARTICLE ALSO APPEARS IN:

HBR’s 10 Must Reads on take a lead role in distributing customer

Strategic Marketing

insights across the organization. For

SALES AND MARKETING BOOK

example, discoveries about “what the

$24.95

ADD TO CART

customer says” as she navigates the CDJ may

 SAVE  SHARE

be highly relevant to product development or

service programs. Marketing should convene

the right people in the organization to act on

its consumer insights and should manage the

follow-up to ensure that the enterprise takes action.

Starting the Journey

The firms we advise that are taking this path tend to begin with a narrow line of business or

geography (or both) where they can develop a clear understanding of one consumer

decision journey and then adjust strategy and resources accordingly. As their pilots get

under way, companies inevitably encounter challenges they can’t fully address at the local

level—such as a need for new enterprisewide infrastructure to support a content

management system. Or they may have to adapt the design of a social media program to

better suit the narrow initiative. In the more successful initiatives we’ve seen, the CMO has

championed the pilot before the executive leadership team. The best results come when a

bottom-up pilot is paralleled by a top-down CMO initiative to address cross-functional,

infrastructure, and organizational challenges.

Finally, a company must capture processes, successes, and failures when it launches a pilot

so that the pilot can be effectively adapted and scaled. A key consideration is that although

the basic architecture of a CDJ strategy may remain intact as it is expanded, specific tactics

will probably vary from one market and product to another. When the consumer

electronics firm discussed here took its CDJ strategy to East Asia, for example, its touch-

point analysis revealed that consumers in that part of the world put more stock in blogs

and third-party review sites than Western consumers do, and less in manufacturers’ or

retailers’ sites, which they didn’t fully trust. They were also less likely to buy online.

However, they relied more on mobile apps such as bar-code readers to pull up detailed

product information at the point of purchase.

The changes buffeting marketers in the digital era are not incremental—they are

fundamental. Consumers’ perception of a brand during the decision journey has always

been important, but the phenomenal reach, speed, and interactivity of digital touch points

makes close attention to the brand experience essential—and requires an executive-level

steward. At many start-ups the founder brings to this role the needed vision and the power

to enforce it. Established enterprises should have a steward as well. Now is the time for

CMOs to seize this opportunity to take on a leadership role, establishing a stronger position

in the executive suite and making consumers’ brand experience central to enterprise

strategy.