SOURCE: Branding in the Digital Age_ You’re Spending Your Money in All the Wrong Places.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Digital Branding and Marketing
SUMMARY: The internet has transformed how consumers engage with brands, requiring marketers to realign their strategies and budgets to adapt to the changing customer decision journey.
KEYWORDS: digital branding, customer decision journey, marketing strategy, touch points, consumer engagement
---

CUSTOMERS

Branding in the Digital

Age: You’re Spending Your

Money in All the Wrong Places

by David C. Edelman

FROM THE DECEMBER 2010 ISSUE

T

he internet has upended how

consumers engage with brands. It is

transforming the economics of

marketing and making obsolete many of the

function’s traditional strategies and

structures. For marketers, the old way of

doing business is unsustainable.

ARTWORK: ALEX MACLEAN, UNTITLED, 2010, PHOTOGRAPH, ATLANTIC

To see how one company developed and

CITY, NEW JERSEY

implemented its CDJ, please read “Aligning

with the Consumer Decision Journey.”

Consider this: Not long ago, a car buyer would methodically pare down the available

choices until he arrived at the one that best met his criteria. A dealer would reel him in and

make the sale. The buyer’s relationship with both the dealer and the manufacturer would

typically dissipate after the purchase. But today, consumers are promiscuous in their brand

relationships: They connect with myriad brands—through new media channels beyond the

manufacturer’s and the retailer’s control or even knowledge—and evaluate a shifting array

of them, often expanding the pool before narrowing it. After a purchase these consumers

may remain aggressively engaged, publicly promoting or assailing the products they’ve

bought, collaborating in the brands’ development, and challenging and shaping their

meaning.

Consumers still want a clear brand promise and offerings they value. What has changed is

when—at what touch points—they are most open to influence, and how you can interact

with them at those points. In the past, marketing strategies that put the lion’s share of

resources into building brand awareness and then opening wallets at the point of purchase

worked pretty well. But touch points have changed in both number and nature, requiring a

major adjustment to realign marketers’ strategy and budgets with where consumers are

actually spending their time.

Block That Metaphor

Marketers have long used the famous funnel metaphor to think about touch points:

Consumers would start at the wide end of the funnel with many brands in mind and

narrow them down to a final choice. Companies have traditionally used paid-media push

marketing at a few well-defined points along the funnel to build awareness, drive

consideration, and ultimately inspire purchase. But the metaphor fails to capture the

shifting nature of consumer engagement.

In the June 2009 issue of McKinsey Quarterly, my colleague David Court and three

coauthors introduced a more nuanced view of how consumers engage with brands: the

“consumer decision journey” (CDJ). They developed their model from a study of the

purchase decisions of nearly 20,000 consumers across five industries—automobiles, skin

care, insurance, consumer electronics, and mobile telecom—and three continents. Their

research revealed that far from systematically narrowing their choices, today’s consumers

take a much more iterative and less reductive journey of four stages: consider, evaluate,

buy, and enjoy, advocate, bond.

Consider.

Block That Metaphor

The journey begins with the consumer’s top-

Then: The Funnel Metaphor

of-mind consideration set: products or

brands assembled from exposure to ads or

For years, marketers assumed that

store displays, an encounter at a friend’s

consumers started with a large number of

house, or other stimuli. In the funnel model,

potential brands in mind and methodically

winnowed their choices until they’d decided the consider stage contains the largest

which one to buy. After purchase, their

number of brands; but today’s consumers,

relationship with the brand typically focused

on the use of the product or service itself. assaulted by media and awash in choices,

often reduce the number of products they

consider at the outset.

Evaluate.

The initial consideration set frequently

expands as consumers seek input from peers,

reviewers, retailers, and the brand and its

Now: The Consumer competitors. Typically, they’ll add new

Decision Journey

brands to the set and discard some of the

New research shows that rather than originals as they learn more and their

systematically narrowing their choices,

selection criteria shift. Their outreach to

consumers add and subtract brands from a

group under consideration during an marketers and other sources of information is

extended evaluation phase. After purchase,

much more likely to shape their ensuing

they often enter into an open-ended

choices than marketers’ push to persuade

relationship with the brand, sharing their

experience with it online. them.

Buy.

Increasingly, consumers put off a purchase

decision until they’re actually in a store—and,

Consider & Buy as we’ll see, they may be easily dissuaded at

Marketers often overemphasize the that point. Thus point of purchase—which

“consider” and “buy” stages of the journey,

exploits placement, packaging, availability,

allocating more resources than they should

to building awareness through advertising pricing, and sales interactions—is an ever

and encouraging purchase with retail

more powerful touch point.

promotions.

Enjoy, advocate, bond.

Evaluate & Advocate

After purchase, a deeper connection begins

New media make the “evaluate” and

“advocate” stages increasingly relevant.

as the consumer interacts with the product

Marketing investments that help consumers

and with new online touch points. More than

navigate the evaluation process and then

spread positive word of mouth about the

60% of consumers of facial skin care

brands they choose can be as important as

products, my McKinsey colleagues found,

building awareness and driving purchase.

conduct online research about the products

Bond after purchase—a touch point entirely

If consumers’ bond with a brand is strong

missing from the funnel. When consumers

enough, they repurchase it without cycling

are pleased with a purchase, they’ll advocate

through the earlier decision-journey stages.

for it by word of mouth, creating fodder for

Find this and other HBR graphics in our VISUAL the evaluations of others and invigorating a

LIBRARY 

brand’s potential. Of course, if a consumer is

disappointed by the brand, she may sever

ties with it—or worse. But if the bond becomes strong enough, she’ll enter an enjoy-

advocate-buy loop that skips the consider and evaluate stages entirely.

The Journey in Practice

Although the basic premise of the consumer decision journey may not seem radical, its

implications for marketing are profound. Two in particular stand out.