SOURCE: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional
TOPIC: Business Culture and Leadership
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of over-delivering, exceeding expectations, and fostering a culture of high performance and continuous improvement at Brazin.
KEYWORDS: over-delivery, performance standards, leadership, growth mindset, corporate culture
---

[Document: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc]

Each of us encounter adversity in our desire to achieve worthwhile goals.  The true growth for each of us comes in understanding and applying the lessons we needed to learn – lessons that were crucial to our growth and development as an executive.  As we look back over our lives, we see that our character has been shaped and moulded by the tests that stretched us the most!

Chapter Nine …

OVER DELIVERY

Over delivery …

Over delivery … exceeding expectations … going the extra mile … whichever way you say it, it’s a critical component of the Brazin culture and there are a million different ways in which to show it.  Over delivering means never leaving anything to chance, never just getting there, but clearing the bar visibly, with inches to spare.

This applies to our people as well.  In setting higher standards, we autograph our work and our team with quality and we allow each team member to feel the sense of satisfaction that comes from achievement, ensuring a raising of what was the norm into even greater standards of performance.

Our culture at Brazin is to always employ on attitude, because the skills we need can be upgraded or taught and that’s where we learn that size truly matters not.

It’s not external factors like the age or experience of a team member that counts – it’s what’s inside that is going to make the difference between a consistently great performer and an average performer.  Once we are there of course, it’s up to us to keep training, to keep at that level of peak performance that will ensure our success and the success of Brazin.

Size matters not reminds us that it’s not about where people are at right now, it’s about where they have the potential to be and our ability to help them get there.  We need a vision for each person and we need to help them take that vision and run with it, to make it their own.

We take pride in the fact that we have no beaurocracy in Brazin, no red tape, no politics, no levels to get through and no people needed to champion your causes – decisions are made immediately and in the best interests of the company.  Once again, a different attitude to many companies but representative of all we are and all we stand for.  Action gets results and ensures people stay committed – there is nothing more disheartening for our team than waiting, waiting, waiting for a decision that we all know should have been made days ago.

We continue to grow and this growth must continue to force us to improve our skills as an executive.  A tanker, no matter how fast or agile, cannot turn like a tug boat – it has to think well ahead to manage situations.  This is why we have clear guidelines, clear standards, clear checklists, clear Manuals, clear Job Descriptions … much of that thinking has been done for us and all we need to do to stay ahead is to execute effectively.

Chapter Ten …

LEADERSHIP …

WE ARE THE MESSAGE

Leadership – we are the message …

Leadership is our ability to influence another person to take a positive course of action, but it isn’t just about us as leaders directing our team to do this or do that.  That’s an autocratic style of management which has no place in Brazin where results are driven through the success of our team.

Brett has always set the pace, the urgency and the desire to achieve at Brazin and his absolute commitment to success has cemented Brazin as one of the top five retailers in Australia.

Our job as leaders of Brazin is simple and the leadership messages from Brett have extended throughout this Handbook.

Understand the culture and the core values of Brazin and exemplify them on a daily basis.  Uncover the problems, don’t wait for them to bowl us over – be proactive in all we do and make over delivery our motto.  We do or do not, there is no room for try in our company.  We focus on our customers, we’ve put the care factor back into managing people and creating powerful teams, our attitudes are positive and encouraging and because we do what we have committed to, we will achieve the results we seek.

Be proud of who we are and all we stand for, defend our culture fiercely and use your influence as leaders to create other leaders.  It is now longer just a story about you – it’s a story about the future of your people … live it well.