SOURCE: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional
TOPIC: Customer Service Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of understanding and improving the 'Moments of Truth' for both external and internal customers, and the role of daily store calls, customer complaint handling, and supplier relationships in delivering outstanding customer satisfaction.
KEYWORDS: customer experience, internal customers, supplier relationships
---

[Document: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc]

We often speak about Moments of Truth for our customers … those critical make or break split- second experiences that help them decide whether this feels right or not.  Indeed, many a Managers’ Meeting and Training Session has been spent defining these so that we can work on improving them for our customers.

However it’s fair to say that we probably spend more time thinking about Moments of Truth for the external customer than we do defining the Moments of Truth for our internal customers … our team and the team in other departments.

Without doubt, the tone and pace for the day is set by the morning call to each store.  How easy it is to take this for granted … it’s just part of the culture, it’s what we do!  Yet, when we examine our motives for making the calls, understand the outcomes we want, it suddenly becomes clear that we could be achieving so much more.

It’s also a quick and easy way for us to tell that all our stores are opened for the day … that we do have all hands on deck and that everyone has arrived at work safely.  Simple, but important.  Lastly of course, it’s your opportunity to discuss the plans for the day, to hear about their priorities, to ensure that everyone knows and is focused on achieving the budget, to share information and to encourage a positive, winning attitude for the day.

It is an absolute must that each General Manager personally and immediately takes each customer complaint – whether over the phone or sent in by mail.  Not our Assistants, not anyone else we might choose to delegate the job too, but us.  We must be interested in hearing the feedback that is so vital to our business and to uncover the deeper issues that complaints will always highlight.

Mystery Shopping Visits have grown to be an important part of the culture – we take them seriously, we learn about the snapshot that was the customer’s experience and we look for opportunities to recognise and reward positive results.

Each of us understands how incredibly important supplier relationships are to our business.  Few of us understand that it is so much more complex than simply selecting the right product.

Simply asking for a discount is not what it’s about … like anything to do with providing outstanding customer satisfaction, we have got to look at things from our supplier’s perspective.  What do they want?  Chances are, they want to sell volume and so, we start the ball rolling by selecting a product that we believe we can do something with.

Let’s assume that we’ve sold 10,000 units.  What has happened?  We’ve been able to exceed the supplier’s expectations … we’ve been able to make him and us more profit … we’ve added thousands to our sales turnover … and we’ve proven to our team the enormous capabilities of teamwork in action.

Next time, we go back to that supplier and in light of our achievement, ask for say, an improved margin  of 2% rather than 1%.  If he says yes – we’ve won, but we have to continue to deliver.  If he says no, we simply go on to the next supplier and show them what we were able to achieve.

Where it breaks down though, is when the retail team don’t back up the job the buying team and the supplier has done.  Posters, signage, special badges, exciting windows are not enough – if the retail team don’t make it successful, it won’t be successful.  This is where the culture makes us so magnificent … with everyone focused on talking up the product, selling it, filling it up, monitoring their results three times a day, getting hyped and excited – we can’t lose.

We buy the Preferred Supplier’s product first, we give their stock the highest priority in our stores, which of course then provides both them and us with greater volume and more profitability.

Who wouldn’t want to be a Preferred Supplier to Brazin?  The force of our team is a force that can far outweigh even the most rigorous campaign of prime time television advertising – but it is at its maximum when the culture is strong in all our stores … and most importantly, when the culture is being lived and breathed by each of us in our senior roles.

That is what providing truly awesome customer satisfaction is about – recognising that the people we sit across from at our meeting tables are really on the same side.  That’s why we don’t keep people waiting for meetings, that’s why we don’t ever accept gifts from suppliers, that’s why we build strong relationships and that’s why we are always 110% professional – who knows what great ideas will be created from a new supplier that just walked in?

Chapter Three …

TEAMWORK

Teamwork …

Each of us holds in our mind’s eye a mental picture of a runner … a superb finely-tuned athlete, graceful, disciplined, passionate, focused.  Now put a team of runners in there, each one poised to take the baton and run as if their very life depended upon it.  Pass the baton carefully, precious moments are wasted if it were to be dropped … turn and join your other team mates to cheer on the last runner … hooray, it’s a victory … race over to share in the success together and celebrate the hard work, which by the way now seems all worthwhile!  You’d do it again over and over for the sensation of being a winner!

I and they … simple yet powerful words that have the capacity to destroy our culture in a single sentence – with a single thought.  These words have no place in Brazin for quite simply, they are about ego and lack of ownership – both quite disparate with the meaning of teamwork.