SOURCE: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional
TOPIC: Retail Store Operations
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of team-focused culture, customer-centric approach, and continuous improvement in a retail business.
KEYWORDS: retail culture, customer service, continuous improvement, team commitment, store operations
---

[Document: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc]

At no time is this better exemplified than in the first few minutes of the store visit.  This is a retail example, but in each department other examples abound.

Your aim is to let the team know you are there to help – so the very worst thing you could do at this point would be to jump on the phone to greet your other stores!  Instead, help set up the racks out the front, pull out the vacuum cleaner – 99 times out of 100 some-one will take over from you, but the message you have sent has been received loud and clear!

Teach your team that customers and other team members will listen more readily to a team member who looks and acts the part, teach them that it is so much easier to see them in the next position if they already dress the part, but also teach them that however well done, none of these standards mean anything if they are not done consistently.

Understand that it is part of our culture to have small back rooms and lunch rooms – that we pay exactly the same rent for the dead space as we do the prime space.  That’s why we always use the word drink break, rather than morning or afternoon tea … our culture is about being alive, productive and active … not about needing a cuppa to sustain you through the day!

Some of these ideas are new to people who have just joined us, particularly if you have had a senior role in another organisation that wasn’t so focused on the true meaning of teamwork – together, everyone achieves more.

If you’re in a store the hour before closing, it is expected that you will be there until the last person leaves.  What sort of message would we send to the team when you walk out before they do – how credible would you be next time you asked for people to stay back and help!  Our team do extraordinary things – their level of commitment and dedication is unmatched throughout the industry – because they are passionate about what they do!

That willingness to be extraordinary, to do whatever it takes, is part of our culture and it’s our job as the Executive Team to do what we can to help.  Recognition, praise – all those things are important … but so is the level of customer satisfaction our team is delivered from The Support Centre.

That’s where actions speak louder than words – they’re missing something so what did we do to get it to them … fast? It’s no time for excuses – it’s our customers who are losing and thus, we as a company are losing.  Take the time out to complete an extensive Wash Up Report or After Action Review … we need to learn how to do it better next time!

Easy in a retail store to get so caught up in the looks, presentation and merchandising of the store that we forget that it is customers’ needs that we are here to address. That’s not an easy thing for Senior Managers who have joined us from other companies to understand – merchandising for the sake of a beautiful store is simply not what we are about!

Teach them as Brett taught us … that it is far better to sell 50 of one product from the front of the store than it is to worry about re-merchandising a section that customers won’t see until they are well into our stores.  Teach them that full shelves sell product, teach them that we don’t keep stock out the back, teach them that we can always sell more of a product by promoting it to our customers.

Store Positioning is critical to the success of our merchant mentality – we can’t be in all places at once and if we’re not on the floor, accessible to our customers because we’re behind the counter, we’ve lost sales … guaranteed.  If we haven’t got it and we can’t switch sell – we go with a customer order, the total of which by the way, is the equivalent to an additional big store in each chain!

When was the last time you promoted customer orders in your morning call?  They are part of our non-negotiables, as are the Weekly Memo or WASP, the washbag and the CD cleaner add-ons and for Bras’n Things add in the Comfort Promise Card.  Non-negotiables … measurable standards … we do these things, all the time because they make a difference.

From time to time we are asked, why isn’t the greeting within 30 seconds a non-negotiable?  Simple answer – you cannot have non-negotiable standard that cannot be enforced all the time.  A one person store taking a customer’s phone call is going to find it hard to greet the four individuals who’ve just walked into their store within 30 seconds.  Reason tells us that, so how can we drive any non-negotiable when it is just not physically possible to achieve?  Only ask for what you can follow up!

Focusing on things like non-negotiables reinforces to our team that what they are doing is right.  Most retailers love to serve customers – what gets them confused is the mixed messages about their priorities.  Once again, make customers the focus for your team and we’ll be breeding an exceptional culture.

We often speak about Moments of Truth for our customers … those critical make or break split- second experiences that help them decide whether this feels right or not.  Indeed, many a Managers’ Meeting and Training Session has been spent defining these so that we can work on improving them for our customers.

However it’s fair to say that we probably spend more time thinking about Moments of Truth for the external customer than we do defining the Moments of Truth for our internal customers … our team and the team in other departments.