SOURCE: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional
TOPIC: Employee Management
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of trust, high standards, and effective leadership in managing a team to achieve desired results.
KEYWORDS: trust, standards, feedback, team management, employee recognition
---

[Document: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc]

They also kill the trust that you are working so hard to develop with the team.  Trust is the foundation of all relationships and is based on a giving and receiving of respect; a willingness to listen; a willingness to share; a willingness to be involved and importantly … a willingness to give and receive feedback about our culture and our performance.

Time and time again we have said that your team is a reflection of you and your standards.  Brett has asked for the very highest standards in Brazin, simply because he knows what is possible to achieve.  We also know, if we are truthful with each other that too may times we let our standards drop – for no real reason other than taking the easy way out.  Yet, every time you do allow a standard to slip, you are doing yourself and the team an enormous disservice.

Next time it is much harder to follow up, the unspoken question always being … why didn’t you say something before.  Sometimes it gets so bad that we will only mention a marked drop in standards through the formal appraisal and wonder why we haven’t been effective as a team leader.

Other companies fear the legal system, we fear our management skills because they are the things that let our team down.  How many times have we employed somebody fantastic, only to have them leave six months later … muttering that it is nothing like what they’ve been told.  Their Manuals haven’t been signed, they haven’t been given their three monthly appraisal, they’ve been promised this, they’ve been promised that and yet, in all that time they’ve seen an Area Manager once and not even spoken to a State Manager.  The worrying thing is that we then say … they were no good anyway.

Being the Manager of a team means truly understanding that the buck stops with you.  If you hear gossip or negativity, even from another department … it’s your responsibility to stop it.  If you see an Area or State Manager spending time in the Centre drinking coffee or shopping, rather than getting on with the job that is to be done in stores … it’s your responsibility to stop it.  If you see people making personal calls, sending personal emails … it’s your responsibility to stop it.

We are responsible to produce results through the efforts of other people … not to put impediments in their way!  Teach your team how to follow up, teach them the value of planning, teach them that delegating doesn’t mean losing control – instead it means gaining control and teach them how to recognise the achievements of each other.

How much time do you spend in your week planning to recognise the efforts of your team?  In all honesty, most of us would spend less than an hour … whilst at the same time agreeing with Brett that if we reward the right behaviour it will be repeated!

Form letters – congratulations on a great result letters - look pretty silly when they are all stuck together on the back door of a reserve!  How much more thought and effort could we put into a letter, when we think about the thought and effort from our team that went into those results we are congratulating.

Watch what happens when the Weekly Memo hits the stores.  Notice that the second area to be read is the Magic Moments page, each person eagerly scanning it for their name.  Often you won’t hear the comments … I wonder why I wasn’t included – I was promoted at the same time as them, I did this for a customer too … but you will soon see the results.

Recognise that once again, all our actions have a consequence!  Recognition of our team is a vital part of our culture – so look for the ways to make people feel special … and make this part of your life at work, everyday.

We achieve this through an ability to focus on the needs of each one of our team members as individuals and put them first.  What do they need from us to help them achieve those results … how can we improve their confidence … what areas can we retrain them in.  Gain their commitment and their willingness, for then you have two hearts working together and the work becomes a downhill run, rather than an uphill battle.

It’s about making the time for each person … yes, of course you’re busy, but then again who isn’t!  When it all boils down, the work of your team is your priority; it’s about making the commitment to them and seeing it through.  Making the commitment as a Senior Manager means spending more time in the planning and follow up than in the actual doing – and that too, is part of our culture.  Not so much planning that it actually paralyses you from taking action and not so much follow up that you drive your team insane … but once again it’s your management skills that dictate whether you are all over the business or whether it is all over you!

Golda Meir told her people that “you cannot shake hands with a clenched fist.”  We have spoken about managing our team, but we also need to be aware that we as Senior Managers belong to another team.  The behaviours that we ask of our team must be the behaviours that we model in our own team, be it at peer level; in a department; a company or working with our suppliers.

Teamwork is an essential part of our culture … we have achieved enormous success as a result of hundreds of fantastic people all willing to go above and beyond the call of duty to achieve what most said could not be done – to break all records.