SOURCE: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional
TOPIC: Customer-Centric Culture
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes Brazin's commitment to delivering exceptional customer satisfaction through a strong, results-driven culture that focuses on attention to detail and continuous improvement.
KEYWORDS: customer satisfaction, results-driven, attention to detail, continuous improvement, corporate culture
---

[Document: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc]

Being results driven is tough!  It means being all over the business – all the time, all over your department, all over your team … understanding the detail, being a hands-on Manager; for success is always the sum of small things done well.

In essence, that is Brazin – that is the culture and that is Brett’s expectation of us. We seek excellence … a raising of the bar in all we do.

Our motto is to crank it up … and be obsessed with over delivering.  We do care … passionately … about customers and our team.  We are professional at all times, we take ownership, we look to ourselves when things go wrong and we never, ever allow inefficiencies and a lack of attention to detail to get on top of us – for we are outcomes driven and proudly results focused in everything that we do!

Sanity

Mission Statement:

“We, the team, by delivering awesome customer satisfaction and by having the best range within a dynamic environment, will dominate

Entertainment retail.”

Bras’n Things

Mission Statement:

“To be the first choice,

intimate apparel retailer,

by delivering unsurpassed customer satisfaction as a result of developing our team

to their fullest potential.”

Chapter Two …

SATISFACTION,

NOT JUST SERVICE

Satisfaction, not just service …

Every customer, every time … the customer that complains is our best friend … always look at things from the customer’s perspective as they are our ultimate boss.  Familiar phrases that roll easily off our tongues!  At Brazin, Brett inverted the Organisational Chart to put customers at the top long before it became fashionable to do so.  We’ve been talking about delivering customer satisfaction - not just customer service, since 1990.

And yet, our commitment to our customers is stronger than ever.  We truly do believe that the only competitive advantage in our business is the level of satisfaction that we offer and it is a commitment to extraordinary service that builds a strong brand.

It’s a point we drive home again and again.  Customers are not interruptions to our work, they are the reason we are here.  If we stop talking about customers … if we stop being obsessed with delivering awesome customer satisfaction … if we condone, even tacitly by not commenting on it, the slightest drop in these standards – our team will too.  Make customers the focus of the day for every store, for every team and sales cannot help but follow!

Too many times we are guilty of seeing customers just as today’s sale, rather than looking at the long term net worth of the customer.

It’s the little things that make us successful, but likewise it’s the little things that often get missed, that go unnoticed.  We’re busy, we say – we’ll get on to that tomorrow.  Soon after, standards drop as we have not enforced them and our customers suffer.

It’s up to each and every one of us to know what is and is not acceptable in our stores.  It’s up to us as the Senior Team to drive the culture and to set the pace we need and to drive the results we look for from awesome customer satisfaction.

Likewise, when you are in stores, stand back and watch the team in action. You will be more valuable when you can make an objective assessment that will help a team member convert more customers to sales.  You’ll be more valuable when you can help a team member close the sale more convincingly.  You’ll be more valuable when you can see where the team are losing sales and when you can offer concrete help that will make a difference to the way they do things long after your visit.

Understand the real reasons behind the washbag and the CD cleaner.  Of course it adds to the turnover, but more importantly it adds to our team’s confidence – if they can add on to a customer’s sale at the counter, just imagine what they could do on the floor!  If they’ve been able to sell the add-on to one customer, it’s easier to offer it to the next customer, the one after that and the one after that.

With increasing poise, they seek out new and more creative ways to improve that KPI … and all of a sudden, exceeding budget for the day doesn’t seem so hard after all!

It’s part of our culture that we are always well prepared.  That places onus on you as the Senior Manager to ensure you are always at a store by 8.30 – so why not consider leaving a bit earlier, miss the traffic and ask the Store Manager to meet you at 8.00 for a coffee and a catch up?  It’s a great opportunity to build on a relationship, set the tone for the visit, hear the problems or celebrate the successes and because it’s not as rushed as we often make our visits – what is said is perceived to be more genuine and sincere.

Likewise at the Support Centre – when was the last time you made time for an 8.00 morning coffee with one of your team members. Remember the emphasis we place on teamwork and encouraging each person to be their best?  Diving into your own work first thing in the morning is generally a poor example of leadership.  You need to set the team up for the day – understand their objectives, hear a problem, encourage a positive attitude, discuss yesterday’s outcomes, guide their thinking.

At no time is this better exemplified than in the first few minutes of the store visit.  This is a retail example, but in each department other examples abound.