SOURCE: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional
TOPIC: Employee Accountability and Ownership
SUMMARY: The text highlights the importance of proactive behavior, taking responsibility, and fostering a culture of ownership among Brazin's executives and teams.
KEYWORDS: employee accountability, ownership mentality, proactive leadership, organizational culture, change mindset
---

[Document: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc]

I just didn’t get the time to complete it

The stores are quiet today – sales are really slow

One of my team was away – we missed that deadline

I can’t get anyone to stay back tonight

That’s not my job – I thought some-one else took care of that

I don’t know why she’s leaving – I haven’t had a chance to call her

Communication is really terrible around here

I don’t think I can work with him – I’ve heard he’s really tough

If only my team were stronger – they’re very new and inexperienced

The list goes on and on and each of us has been guilty of making comments that clearly pass the buck … that hand over all responsibility for our actions to some-one else … that make excuses for poor time planning … that make excuses for our lack of leadership or lack of initiative.

Being proactive as an Executive in Brazin means that you will be constantly asked to assess your own behaviour and make the necessary changes to allow the team to grow. We can’t ask for world class behaviour when we are not consistently demonstrating it ourselves.

Brazin, as all successful businesses has been built on good ideas with many of the best coming from the frontline team.  Don’t just ask yourself – how could we do this better, ask your team … but make sure you are prepared to listen and respond with warmth, sincerity and eagerness.  Too many ideas are killed because we didn’t listen effectively or we didn’t respond the first time around.

It’s rarely the idea that won’t work – it could be the timing, the appropriateness, the cost, the systems needed to support it, the lack of team members … whatever the reason, we need to take the time out to follow through and explain a no-go to our team.

A truly proactive executive is a great delegator … using everyday tasks and activities to encourage excitement, growth, excellence and that famous Brazin sense of ownership in all we do.

Our culture encourages our team to adopt the mentality of taking responsibility for their own actions – that way, we have truly empowered them to be outstanding.  It is the greatest gift that we can give to another … that ability to accept responsibility for our lives, our actions and whatever the consequences may be.

Many times Brett has said that his greatest sense of pride comes from hearing the passion as well as the frustration in some-one’s voice, as it is a wonderful demonstration of ownership … this is my company, my values, my culture and I’m so proud of to be here.  Create passion and you create proactivity.

Chapter Seven …

CHANGE YOUR

MIND SET

Change your mind set …

Everyone that joins Brazin has an enormous amount to give, to offer to the growth of the company and perhaps none more so than our executive team.  However, as a new executive joining us you need to be aware that the first thing Brett will ask of you is that you take the time to understand.  You may have been used to a different way – that’s fine, but until you understand our culture, don’t attempt to make changes.  Instead, be sensitive that very often it is we that need to make the changes.

Let go of your old culture, of the old ways … live up to the view that you have of yourself as flexible, adaptable and dynamic – live a new mind set; a mind set that is open to the possibilities that anything can be achieved if it is in line with our culture and our core values.

Unlearn what you have learned simply means being open to the potential – there are other ways; there are better ways than the ones you have become used to and the sooner you are able to change your mind set, the sooner you will be achieving success.

Our culture is one of limitless possibility – everyone gets a chance to succeed.  Indeed, Brett has grown the business by taking young, raw, passionate recruits and changing their mind set .. turning them into our future leaders.  That of course means that some won’t make the grade, but the others that put the time and effort into learning a new culture, have been richly rewarded along the way.

Look around you – each person is here to help you succeed.  Often this too, requires a change in mind-set.  True executives are not afraid to admit when they need help – but in our willingness to seek solutions, we go prepared with a plan.  That way, time is not wasted and we are already learning.

There are many situations which require us to adopt a different mentality, a different way of thinking.  We are here for the long term and we would never sacrifice that for making a short term win, no matter how appealing.

A retailer’s constant battle is with the landlords – the leasing team that we are quite happy to drink with after work, but the next day we need to be aware that we are on opposite sides of the fence.  It is the landlord’s job to force up occupancy costs.  It is our job as Brazin executives to ensure that we pay as little occupancy cost as possible, as every extra dollar erodes our profits.

However, it doesn’t stop at one store.  With every individual rental increase, we have increased the cost of doing business in all our stores.  With every ordinary deal we accept, we have increased the cost of doing business in all our stores.  We need to recognise that if we stand firm and say no to anything other than outstanding, there will be other, better opportunities when we call the state of play!