SOURCE: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional
TOPIC: Team Culture and Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of teamwork, communication, and trust in Brazin's culture, emphasizing the value of developing and empowering employees.
KEYWORDS: teamwork, communication, trust, leadership, employee development
---

[Document: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc]

I and they … simple yet powerful words that have the capacity to destroy our culture in a single sentence – with a single thought.  These words have no place in Brazin for quite simply, they are about ego and lack of ownership – both quite disparate with the meaning of teamwork.

Runners will become coaches.  That is the essence of Brazin.  Successful people who have achieved go on to helping others achieve.  Leaders are builders and our culture recognises and rewards those Managers who have been able to bring on other Managers, regardless of their level.  They are the true winners, for they have demonstrated the ability to move behind, across to the side … to let their team take credit, to feel the exhilaration of victory.

There is no point learning if you are not willing to pass on your knowledge.  Without knowledge, without new ideas, we grow stale, we stagnate and become difficult to motivate; which is why we have a culture so focused on training and developing our team to achieve their fullest potential.

You are your team.  Your team are a reflection of you.  Whichever way you put it, the meaning is the same.  Take a good look and if you don’t like what you see, ask yourself what you have been changing to make the changes necessary for the team to grow, develop and become totally focused on living our culture.

Often, because we perceive we are desperate to employ a Manager, we make do with our recruitment choices.  We think, they’ll get it – they’re friendly enough and they’ve had loads of experience.  That story probably doesn’t even need to be finished, because we’ve all done that at some point in our lives … and regretted our decision immediately our new team member joined us. They were wrong from the start.

So what’s right for us at Brazin?  What do we look for in a team member? Very often, we’ve made our decision before we even sit down.

Our list could go on, but once you understand the culture, you can tell in a matter of minutes whether somebody will be prepared to believe in it, to love it and to foster it in others.  That’s the power of a strong culture – it quickly sorts the achievers from the time wasters and as we previously noted, it’s the team themselves that do the sorting.

Teamwork involves so many issues, but for Brett and the Brazin culture, teamwork comes down to three vital elements: vision, communication and trust.

Do “XYZ”, we are told.  Our natural instinct is to automatically ask … why?  So, tell -  share more information than you ever thought was possible, because it will make a huge difference to the way the job is carried out.  Those extra minutes spent in the correct briefing, in answering questions, in explaining the big picture will be more than saved along the way … and will show up in commitment, in initiative and in results.

Our culture is outcomes focused, but often we are too rushed to provide all the details that our team need.  When the job isn’t done to the standards required, our first instinct is to say … but, I told them to do it.  A closer, more honest inspection will tell us that it’s not their fault, it’s ours … and we not only do we learn the ownership lesson all over again, we are once again reminded of the importance of communication to effective teamwork!

Communication is the lifeblood of our culture.  We communicate in so many ways every day and with so many people that we can lose sight of what we are aiming to achieve.

We are so intent on delivering our message that it seems not to matter whether that message has been clearly understood, interpreted correctly and resulted in the right actions.  Yet, how easy is it to receive the wrong message, to take offence where none has been meant, to go down one path when it was the highway you should have been taking … and all because our communication was ineffective!

It’s easy in a face to face conversation to determine whether your message has been received and will be acted upon.  If there’s a problem, you can quickly rectify it, check for understanding and make the necessary changes.

It’s harder over the phone, which is why your questions need to be more detailed … tell me how; what happened here; what was the final result of … and so on – always drilling deeper to satisfy yourself that the communication was successful.  Don’t take chances, write things down from your telephone  communication that needs to be followed up – your team will appreciate your guidance and direction.

Team Meetings are the perfect opportunity for everyone to get together … to share information … to learn new procedures … to reinforce standards … to celebrate results and successes … to determine a fresh approach to outcomes that are not where they should be.

It’s against our culture to be patronising or lecturing; we would never yell at a team member; we would never be rude; we would never hang up the phone in a burst of temper; we would never slam objects around to make a point and we would never substitute somebody’s first name with love, sweetie, or a derogatory nickname; all these kill a relationship; kill communication and kill our culture.

They also kill the trust that you are working so hard to develop with the team.  Trust is the foundation of all relationships and is based on a giving and receiving of respect; a willingness to listen; a willingness to share; a willingness to be involved and importantly … a willingness to give and receive feedback about our culture and our performance.