SOURCE: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional
TOPIC: Corporate Culture and Values
SUMMARY: The text describes Brazin's corporate culture, emphasizing customer satisfaction, teamwork, positive attitude, and recognizing employee achievements.
KEYWORDS: corporate culture, customer satisfaction, teamwork, positive attitude, employee recognition
---

[Document: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc]

Brett has chosen at Brazin to sum up our culture in a word that is used throughout the entire world in every profession and in every endeavour, to recognise excellence, superior performance and the indomitable nature that is the human spirit.  That word is … STAR.

We mentioned earlier that in our own quest to “raise the bar”, we moved from customer service to customer satisfaction.  This is the very first S  … and the more outstanding the customer satisfaction we have provided, the better!  Let’s make one thing clear from the start – you have the power to do whatever it takes to make the customer happy.

Whatever it takes … and that means jumping over backwards.  Don’t wait for the customer to say jump – be proactive, take initiative and anticipate their needs. We don’t operate our business for the 1% of customers who intend to do the wrong thing; we operate it for the 99% of customers who want to shop in our stores, who love our team and who will ultimately reward us with the greatest gift of all – their loyalty.

There can be nothing more satisfying than working in a Team environment, supporting and being supported by like minded team members.  You’ll notice that we ban the word staff and employees in Brazin … it immediately conjures up a them and us situation which is totally alien to our culture.

Each of us sits here now, reading this, with the benefit of years of experience and understanding.  However if we are honest, we will acknowledge that we weren’t always fantastic when we started!  Fortunately, somebody saw beyond that, saw the enormous potential in us and gave us our first start on the road to success.

Teamwork divides the task and doubles the success … at Brazin, we believe that “one of us is not as good as all of us.”  Ironically though, it is often these differences, the personalities so unlike our own that can be very difficult to manage!

Attitude means many things.  First and foremost to Brazin, it means consciously making an attitude choice when you get up each morning.  That choice is to stay positive and motivated throughout the day; to be the role model our team needs; to add value and learning to each conversation and to take the attitude of continuous improvement - finding out how we can be better today than we were yesterday.

The value of those calls is enormous … instead of finishing the day feeling de-motivated and frustrated because we haven’t beaten budget – a few simple  words and thoughts, carefully chosen and gently discussed over the phone, have had the power to re-ignite passion and purpose; tomorrow will be a great day!  Instead of feeling on a high after a great day, yet frustrated and let down because there is no-one to share the exciting news with – that phone call has recognised achievement and encouraged a repeat performance tomorrow!  It has also sent another powerful message … that we, as the leaders of our team care about each and every one of our people and are always accessible.

Yet, it takes a special person to make the commitment to be there, to be willing to take those calls long after the stores have closed their doors, long after the Support Centre team have left.

Attitudes are caught, not taught and we firmly believe that the attitudes you give out are the attitudes you get back.

No fancy Head Offices or Ivory Towers for us, designed with luxurious appointments, sending out the wrong messages to everyone that deals with us.  We’re proud of the fact that we’re lean and mean, we’re proud of the fact that we have banned the word Head Office, we’re proud of the fact that instead we have a very functional, very productive Support Centre which exists solely to serve the business needs of our customers and our stores.

Results are the cornerstone of our profitability.  Results aren’t always directly measurable, but you will find the belief in the culture, the level of customer satisfaction, the teamwork and the attitudes that exist in the team members you manage, is always reflected in the results you produce.

At Brazin, costs are the enemy.  It’s as simple and yet as difficult as that.  Each team member is charged with the responsibility of spending as though it were their own money, constantly questioning their expenses and looking for ways to reduce our costs. “Three quotes” are the norm for many companies, but we urge you to go one step beyond that.  Take ownership of your business for indeed, as a public company, it is your business … how can we do a better deal, how can we achieve a better result at a better price, do we actually need to spend this money?

Results comprise a commitment to excellence in every area of our business and an overriding desire to beat the budgets. As we break that down, it’s about a desire to empower each team member to take responsibility for their own results, through the Key Performance Indicators that assist them in continuous improvement – how can I do better?

Being results driven is tough!  It means being all over the business – all the time, all over your department, all over your team … understanding the detail, being a hands-on Manager; for success is always the sum of small things done well.

In essence, that is Brazin – that is the culture and that is Brett’s expectation of us. We seek excellence … a raising of the bar in all we do.