SOURCE: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional
TOPIC: Corporate Culture and Ethics
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of a positive attitude, professionalism, integrity, and a culture of learning in the company.
KEYWORDS: corporate culture, ethics, professionalism, integrity, learning
---

[Document: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc]

Take out the word impossible from your vocabulary.  All of us know that it simply means that we haven’t found the right way yet.  Put a positive attitude back in its place … see the situation in a different light … come at the problem from a new perspective and all of a sudden, it doesn’t seem as big as it was.

We need our executives to be 110% professional … to always do the right thing, without thinking about it, even when under pressure. A professional thinks about the role they carry out … the position they hold … the people they influence … the results they must achieve … the way in which they can increase their value to the company.

Be a professional – look for the ways in which you can make yourself better.  It starts with a positive attitude – a willingness to do what others are not prepared to do.  It starts with a willingness to develop your knowledge and your skills – and along the way, you will have also developed your attitude.

That’s why ours is a culture of learning.  We don’t pay for university education – instead we pay for Company Conferences, that are tailored to the needs of the business and to the needs of our people.  As in all things, we provide the resources and you provide the willingness to get on, do the job needed and achieve.

Encourage in your team an attitude of learning.  Encourage in them a desire to help the other.  Use the Manuals, use the Conferences, use your integrity and sense of self worth to make yourself better today than you were yesterday.

We should be breeding integrity into our team.  Ours is a business where it is possible to cheat and to steal … we need to be on the lookout for that.  Thankfully, ours is a business too, where the majority of people are honest.  We depend on these people to help us identify the dishonest ones. We depend on the confidentiality line that Brett listens to daily to help us uncover situations that aren’t right.

And we depend on you as a Senior Executive to always lead from the front in this regard … to recognise that company property is company property and belongs at work, no matter whether it is money, equipment, stock, stationery or time.

Likewise, a team member’s property is his or her own – whether it be money or equipment or books or clothes and our culture is also to leave it with them.  We don’t borrow for one very good reason – that our team are not in the position to be able to say no.  Instead, they assume that we represent the culture and the entire company and as a result, their view of us as a business becomes spoiled.  Eventually they leave, disheartened that once again, what was promised didn’t materialise. It’s hard to see integrity at work, but it’s easy to see team members resentful because our attitudes didn’t reflect our culture.

A poor Manager blames the team – a good Leader blames themselves!  Look for the areas we can improve, because to our team we are the Company.  Brett has built an enormously successful, strong company – it is our job to build on that again and take our people to even greater heights!

Negative attitudes are an anathema to our culture.  They have the power to undo all the good work that has gone before.  They have the power to alienate customers and lose us sales.  They have the power to water down the results of a promotion or a catalogue or an in store display.  Negative attitudes have the power to make us doubt ourselves, our ability and our culture.  They creep in and in an insidious way, attack everything we stand for.

Our culture is built around people achieving their best. Its positiveness inspires, encourages excellence, reinforces the power of passion and potential.  You are here because you do have the right attitude, because the culture is your passion.  Use it to show others their passion and their potential for success.

Chapter Five …

RESULTS

Results …

What counts for Brett, at the very end, after all the good intentions have been actioned, after all the communication has been given and received, after all the expectations have been highlighted … after we have planned and organised, motivated, given ownership, delegated, inspired and carefully followed up is just one thing.  Results.

Results.  Once again – it’s as simple and yet as difficult as that.  Each of us gets paid to produce results and it’s so easy in a retail business to assume that those results are just about dollars.  Of course make no mistake, all results do translate into bottom line dollars … but each department is responsible for very different sets of Key Performance Indicators.

Let’s look at other departments.  Let’s start with Buying – once again responsible for producing income, but this time it is judged through gross margins, supplier rebates and markdown control.  Like every other department, buying is responsible to minimise expenses and produce maximum productivity.  Do the job we get paid to do and once again, we have delivered a good result.

What about the Warehouse team?  A department not directly responsible for producing sales results, but if we do not maintain our 24 hour turnaround with stock deliveries in the Warehouse, sales in stores are affected.  If we do not maintain our 24 hour turnaround with stock replenishment in the Warehouse, again sales will be affected.  If we do not obsessively check every invoice, every consignment note, every delivery, every bar code, every price ticket, every stock transfer … we won’t stay on top of shrinkage and our income will be affected. Like every other department, the Warehouse is responsible to minimise expenses and produce maximum productivity.  Do the job we get paid to do and once again, we have delivered a good result.