SOURCE: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional
TOPIC: Retail Operations Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of effective stock control, finance and accounting, property management, and decision-making in maintaining a successful retail business.
KEYWORDS: stock control, financial management, property management, decision-making, retail operations
---

[Document: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc]

Likewise with Stock Control. If we do not take charge of re-ordering stock at the right time, we will have lost sales.  If we do not take note of buying trends as they occur and be ready to increase or decrease our stock holding within 24 hours, we will have lost sales.  If we are not on top of our stores’ needs with Store Support, we will have lost sales. If we are not on top of Customer Orders, we will have lost sales.  If we are not vigilant with The In Transit Report, we will contribute to shrinkage and expenses blowouts.

Equally with the Finance and Accounts Team.  If we are not on top of the income collection and reconciliation, we will contribute to shrinkage.  If we are not on top of supplier payments, we will lose valuable rebate allowances. If we do not obsessively check each invoice against each statement, we will contribute to shrinkage.  If we do not provide the reporting and accounting necessary to read results and analyse the business, we will lose income.  If we do not understand the terms of each supplier deal, we will lose margin.  If we do not understand the terms of each lease, we will be overcharged in percentage rent, or promotional costs or outgoings or in the savings agreed in a new store fitout. If we do not pay our team correctly and on time, we will lose morale, productivity and ultimately … sales.

What about the Property Department?  If Property does its job well, our sales are increased through a better location, our occupancy costs are substantially reduced, our percentage rent costs are lowered, the cost of new fit-outs are minimised, depreciation is less and maintenance costs on existing stores is decreased.  If Property does its job well, the lease deal on the next store is better, we will have found improvements to our fit-outs … we may even have made time savings that translate to a store being able to trade during a rent free period.

We don’t take mediocrity lying down.  We achieve results through an absolute commitment to discipline and nowhere is that more evident than in the fact that all the cheques are still signed by the Managing Director. Most businesses would call that unnecessary … most businesses that is, who aren’t achieving anywhere close to our profit levels.

It’s about making decisions … making commitments and sticking to them.  As a public company, we are responsible to so many shareholders now.  We are also responsible to thousands of stakeholders, not the least of those who are our team members, who so willingly trust us to keep our commitments … deliver on the results we have promised … and who themselves provide the best example by always walking the extra mile.

What do we do when we make a phone call, ask about the day and realise that the team member doesn’t know the budget … mostly, we let it go.  We’re busy, we reason – we’ll fix it next time.  Problem is, next time comes around too quickly and we’re still too busy.

What do we do when a team member takes a sickie … we know they’re fudging it … we know their team mates are covering – how often do we just let it go.  They’re pretty good most of the time, we reason – I’ll address it if it happens again.  Problem is, we don’t!

What does it mean when our team doesn’t personally ring in for sick calls?  What does it mean when we have our National Days and we find that not everyone has participated?  What does it mean when we realise that we have missed a deadline – the list could go on and on!  It means that we haven’t communicated our expectations, it means that we have let standards slip, it means that we haven’t seriously taken accountability for our roles.

Results … they are the cornerstone of our profitability and an integral part of our culture.  Every person who has joined us, every one of us who has achieved success in their career through Brazin has demonstrated that we are results driven and results focused.

Let’s keep the focus on our results – let’s cut through the minutiae of our day to concentrate on the things that really matter, because if we as the Senior Managers don’t deliver, we won’t be fulfilling the commitments we have made … and our customers will suffer, our team will suffer, our attitudes will suffer, our culture will suffer and it will have enormous ramifications on our results.

Chapter Six …

BEING PROACTIVE

Being proactive …

We’ve all known the people for whom everything is impossible – as Yoda says – always what cannot be done.  They place the blame rather than taking the blame. They sap our energy to shape their own.  They find a million excuses … we find a million opportunities.  They knock people down … we build people up.  They are reactive … we are proactive.

However, being proactive requires us to be aware at all times.  How easy is it to fall into the traps:

I just didn’t get the time to complete it

The stores are quiet today – sales are really slow

One of my team was away – we missed that deadline

I can’t get anyone to stay back tonight

That’s not my job – I thought some-one else took care of that

I don’t know why she’s leaving – I haven’t had a chance to call her

Communication is really terrible around here

I don’t think I can work with him – I’ve heard he’s really tough

If only my team were stronger – they’re very new and inexperienced