SOURCE: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional
TOPIC: Corporate Culture
SUMMARY: This text introduces Brazin's dynamic corporate culture, emphasizing teamwork, customer focus, and leadership by example.
KEYWORDS: corporate culture, team culture, customer-centric, leadership by example
---

[Document: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc]

Table of Contents …

PROLOGUE …

AN INTRODUCTION

An Introduction …

Rewind the clock back just a few short years.  It is 1990 and it is assumed, indeed widely accepted, that there is no space left for another national retail chain …. let alone two! The dominant players in the market are Brashes, Sportsgirl, Katies and Sussan.

Bras’n Things has just opened its 24th store and Brett Blundy, one of the youngest players in the retail industry, has just bought back his six Jetts Music stores.  They will be renamed Delta Music and in just over two years, will become known as Sanity Music … a dominant force which will be forever linked with the youth music market.

Fast forward – it is now 2001 and the publicly listed Brazin Group, which comprises 125 Bras’n Things stores, 300 Sanity and In2 stores, together with Aztec Rose, the leading manufacturer of young women’s lifestyle fashion, is now the fifth largest public retailer in Australia. In just ten amazing years, Brazin has achieved unbelievable success. With a doubling

of the business each year, it has not only re-written the record books about how long growth should take but has turned the industry upside down with the profit results it has achieved!

You see, Brazin is one of the most exciting and dynamic companies in the world. It is that way, not only because we have one of the world’s greatest visionaries and business leaders as our Founder and Chairman, but because we have been able to attract exciting, wonderful people to work with us.

Yes, with us … not for us – and that is possibly the most important lesson to learn in our culture.  At Brazin, we are all part of the one team – each of us has different roles to play, each of us has varying levels of responsibility … but we are each colleagues, members of the one team and vitally dependent on one another to carry out our responsibilities.  There is no superiority, no privileges, no place for ego - these things simply aren’t congruent with the true meaning of a team!  We must be prepared to do exactly the same thing that we ask our stores and our people to do.

At Brazin, the customer comes first.  Not in the way you hear other retailers talk about service … but sincerely, honestly – a fact.  The customer to us is the lifeblood of our business, the reason we are in business and we will do anything it takes to make that customer happy.

Each of you has customers.  As a Senior Manager, the majority of customers will be your own team, other departments and external relationships.  You are always on show … you are a role model and an ambassador for Brazin. Make every conversation count.  Add value wherever you can - whenever you can … live the culture daily – teach the culture daily and remember, the magic is in you!

Chapter One …

FOR OUR ALLY

IS THE CULTURE

For our ally is the culture …

Yes, every Company does have a culture - a set of values that are important to its success, a way of operating that always makes the difference between effective and mediocre performance.  Every person, regardless of their position models a certain set of behaviours and values, yet rarely are we called to account for our attitudes, let alone define these behaviours.

At Brazin, we have defined these standards and we ask each of our team to make the choice to model and teach these behaviours … this way of thinking … these attitudes … for it is this, our culture, that has more than proven its worth as the foundation of one of Australia’s most successful retailers.

Our culture is found in the little things .... in attitudes, in a focus on customers, in communication and team building, in the respect that team members have for each other, in the jargon used, in the environment we create in our Company, in the standards of performance and in the willingness of each team member - no matter what level - to put in the extra effort … to walk the extra mile.

All of us go to work wanting to do a good job, to learn, wanting to achieve and to be recognised for our achievements, wanting to be part of a winning team.  All of us like to feel that “we, the team” have the same goals, that we are all heading in the one direction – that what is important to me is equally as important to you.

This is the job of the Mission Statement – defining our direction; bringing everyone around our common dream; providing a solid, unerring basis for decision making and simplifying and coordinating the work of all our different departments.

When our culture is strong, the team work from a commitment to the rules – rather than from compliance.  Indeed, when the culture is strong, it replaces rules - it ensures empowerment of team members and guides people in their decision making.  The right behaviour becomes the norm, automatic – part of the psyche of the team member, which is why incongruent behaviour immediately becomes more noticeable.

Your ally will truly be the force; but only if you believe it, understand it, commit to it, exemplify it and live it daily.  The danger with a company the size of ours is that the culture can be dissipated, misunderstood, disregarded and those same values and attitudes that led us to success can be just as easily and quickly turned against us.

Brett has chosen at Brazin to sum up our culture in a word that is used throughout the entire world in every profession and in every endeavour, to recognise excellence, superior performance and the indomitable nature that is the human spirit.  That word is … STAR.