SOURCE: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional
TOPIC: Corporate Culture
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of maintaining a positive attitude and teamwork within the company's culture, which is essential for achieving success.
KEYWORDS: Teamwork, Positive Attitude, Corporate Culture, Excellence, Professionalism
---

[Document: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc]

Teamwork is an essential part of our culture … we have achieved enormous success as a result of hundreds of fantastic people all willing to go above and beyond the call of duty to achieve what most said could not be done – to break all records.

Your team must become your family.  You must love them, be willing to grow them, mould them, develop them, motivate them, provide them with feedback and encourage them as they move into the coach position.  For you are their role model and our culture not only asks that you be outstanding, but gives you the tools to live excellence on a daily basis.

Chapter Four …

ATTITUDE

Attitude …

“We are then, what we repeatedly do.  Excellence therefore, is a habit.” Aristotle

You can pick lemons off the trees, but you have to dig for diamonds as the saying goes.  That’s possibly the hardest lesson to learn, that out of 100 people we’ve interviewed – we may choose only 5 because our culture demands that we be exceptionally selective on attitude.

A positive attitude is the one request Brett makes of all our team when they join us, no matter how senior they are or how inexperienced.  A positive person who smiles, who is enthusiastic, who looks for the good in everything adds so much more to our business than the one who has a difficult personality.

The first few seconds give the clue … how are you, we ask beaming.  Not too bad … the negative person says …  could be better … thank goodness it’s the end of the day … I’ve had the worse day of my life … and so the avalanche continues!  How does it make us feel?  All of a sudden, a little bit of sunshine has been taken out of our day.  Things that were going well suddenly seem harder to achieve.

It’s a choice.  Like all choices, it can be tough!  Like all choices our attitude affects our team, our work, our own levels of enthusiasm, our willingness to take the  responsibility and it affects our desire to be better today than we were yesterday!

Each of us has problems … everyone has a life outside work that doesn’t always run as smoothly as we would like.  We ask that you deposit these (mentally) in a box by the front door, wipe your feet on the positive attitude mat and come and join us.  Your problems will be there again at the end of the day, but they won’t have been a burden to you during the day.  Neither will they have been a burden to anyone else.

The time to be most positive is when you are feeling the most negative. That’s the true test of your professionalism.  The time to be the most enthusiastic is when you are feeling the most concerned.  The time to be the most action oriented is when you are feeling most defensive and excuse focused.  The time to be the most open and supportive is when you are feeling the most frustrated.

Thoughts always precede an action.  If you want a magical team, put the magic back in you and your attitude.  The strength of our culture rests on your ability to do that.

We are not saying don’t take time to recoup.  What our culture expects though, is that you will recognise your responsibility to your team and to the business and take time when it is not going to have an impact.  If you are going to have a sleep-in … have a sleep-in and don’t come in till 10.30am.  That way, the perception of our team is that you have been to a meeting or on a store visit and our standards won’t be compromised, nor the messages mixed.

Want people to start earlier, finish later?  Come in every day at 8.00am … chances are, you’ll soon have a department that is buzzing with productivity at 8.30am.  Want your team to be better presented? Make the effort yourself, comment positively on the changes you see and with little effort and fuss on your behalf, you will achieve what you set out to do.

Want to stop the gossip?  Simple … stop your gossip. Say that we actually don’t know the full story and as we wouldn’t gossip about each other, we won’t do it to anyone else – it’s not the culture.

It’s not the culture. It’s not the culture. Those are words Brett desperately needs to hear more frequently – from all of us as Senior Managers.  Don’t let a comment pass, don’t let a standard slip, don’t let something wrong pass you by … we are counting on you to keep the attitudes positive, the culture healthy.  You have chosen to take on additional responsibility, you are paid to take on additional responsibility and as an executive in Brazin … the culture is the responsibility of each of us.

Broadcast good news – how much nicer is it to be able to say … I’ve got good news.  If none springs readily to mind, then go hunting!  Think about the reasons we have to be happy and share them.  A sense of humour lightens the toughest, darkest situations and makes it easy for our team to apply themselves with renewed positivity and momentum!

Take out the word impossible from your vocabulary.  All of us know that it simply means that we haven’t found the right way yet.  Put a positive attitude back in its place … see the situation in a different light … come at the problem from a new perspective and all of a sudden, it doesn’t seem as big as it was.