SOURCE: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional
TOPIC: Corporate Culture and Values
SUMMARY: The text discusses Brazin's corporate culture, emphasizing the importance of discipline, commitment, and a willingness to challenge the status quo.
KEYWORDS: corporate culture, core values, discipline, commitment, challenging the status quo
---

[Document: Brazin Culture Handbook.doc]

However, it doesn’t stop at one store.  With every individual rental increase, we have increased the cost of doing business in all our stores.  With every ordinary deal we accept, we have increased the cost of doing business in all our stores.  We need to recognise that if we stand firm and say no to anything other than outstanding, there will be other, better opportunities when we call the state of play!

It didn’t get like that overnight!  It was a hard fought battle and one that continues to be raged in every Centre whenever there is a market review or a new store opportunity.  Keeping firm to your beliefs is critical and there is no greater example than Brett in this regard.  Yes, the landlords might not like our toughness but they respect it, because they recognise the greatness inherent in it.

Likewise, understand our attitude to Shopping Centre advertising.  We don’t participate in the Centre’s advertising, because we already pay into the Centre’s marketing and promotions fund.  It is the job of the Centre to bring traffic into our stores.  It is our job to encourage the customers that are in the Centre to come into our stores.  It is a waste of advertising dollars to participate in a catalogue, a fashion parade or newspaper advertising.

Let go of the negative, open our mind to new ideas, new possibilities and we can achieve far more than we thought possible.  How often has this been demonstrated in our IT department?  How often have we been recommended to spend thousands and thousands of dollars on costly new systems, when in actual fact it was a people and culture problem from the start?

Don’t let yesterday into today!  Today is a new day, a new start and an opportunity for fresh beginnings – to learn from the mistakes and then, learn to put ourselves in the place of most potential so that we can see the changes that need to be made.

Let’s be proud of the different way we do things at Brazin, for it is that willingness to unlearn … to step out against what is most comfortable … to be counted … that has made us great and has given us the strong culture we value and wonderful ideals to live up to.

Chapter Eight …

THERE IS NO TRY

There is no try …

The core value that underpins this philosophy is discipline.  Discipline to actually commit to what we said we would do.  Brett often says that is the fundamental rule of success – keeping the promises we make to ourselves!  Each of us know the ones – I’ll do that tonight, I’ll get to it this week, I’ll read it tomorrow, I’ll have it prepared for you, we’ll have a day together … the list goes on.

It’s not a lack of desire, it’s a lack of commitment and discipline that lets us down.  We might as well have prefaced each of these with “I’ll try”!  As soon as anyone says I’ll try, we know their heart is not engaged.  That’s why we have banned it as a phrase at Brazin.  It’s an easily understood concept, one which asks us to be our very best at all times.

Our culture is one of being involved, being proactive, being committed … in essence, we are constantly seeking a new PB, a new personal best.  As soon as we add the element of doubt, of giving it a try … we have already failed and yet, for champions, failure is not an option.  Failure means staying down, regarding it as a fall, rather than a slip – we prefer to see things the other way around.

Each of us are committed to this principle – however it is in the execution of it that we let ourselves down.  We engage a new team member, we promise to do everything we can to make them successful, we give them their Training Manuals, we say we’ll be back … and then we don’t deliver.

We promote a team member, we say we’ll give you all the help you need … and then we don’t deliver.

We’ve forgotten to plan and as a result, are in a desperate hurry for the purchase of some new equipment, perhaps something as simple as stationery – we know costs are the enemy, but because of our urgency we accept a higher cost … we don’t deliver.

That means setting clear guidelines from the beginning.  It means having the discipline to enforce those standards and it means recognising that each team member needs clear and consistent feedback from us everyday.

Don’t assume they know – because they don’t!  Instead, make sure they know – take the time to go through in detail the Job Description and the Key Performance Indicators.  Take the time to go through what’s important to us as a company and as a department.  Take the time to share the culture, take the time to train and develop your team … because it’s only by doing these things that we can be truly assured that we gain full commitment.

Whatever it takes … that’s our motto.  Whether it takes time after work, whether it takes heart, whether it takes courage, whether it takes sacrifice, whether it means leaving a comfort zone, whether it means admitting a mistake, whether it means learning to be more positive or seeing a different view … each of us will do whatever it takes to succeed.

Each of us encounter adversity in our desire to achieve worthwhile goals.  The true growth for each of us comes in understanding and applying the lessons we needed to learn – lessons that were crucial to our growth and development as an executive.  As we look back over our lives, we see that our character has been shaped and moulded by the tests that stretched us the most!

Chapter Nine …

OVER DELIVERY

Over delivery …