SOURCE: Brett HFT Culture Presentation as spoken by Brett.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional
TOPIC: Organizational Culture
SUMMARY: The speaker discusses the importance of actively shaping and maintaining a positive organizational culture, rather than letting it develop on its own.
KEYWORDS: culture, organizational culture, leadership, values, accountability
---

[Document: Brett HFT Culture Presentation as spoken by Brett.docx]

S

Speaker 1

01:04:14

Then it's holding people to account if they are deviating and accepting that everyone will deviate at some stage. That's this average thing pulling us or people with different values pulling us across. Is that some annoying? Yeah, I think it's actually about 15 centimeters. Thanks. And that one's fine. Mark, Is it the block out? It's actually the block outs that we do. Don't worry. Yeah, that's great. Say that again. Say that louder. So leave to it. Yeah, it's not complicated, but it takes immense effort. It's a bit like the whole of retail, isn't it? Not difficult, it's just really demanding. Culture is easy probably for the right people to get hold of. But the other interesting thing that I'm sure everybody here knows, but again, this is a reminder that every organisation has a culture.

S

Speaker 1

01:05:46

The real thing that you have to decide is are you going to let that culture develop on its own, which will mostly happen not be as effective, or are you going to be the architect of it and the enforcer of it, and the one that every action that you have will help add to that culture. And we all know that too. You know, you can pick on the public service, right? There's a culture in there. It's not a positive culture, it's not a service culture, any of those things. And there's certain people that want to go because that's their value systems. So everybody, everything has a culture. Whether it's a winning culture or not is the thing to make a decision. And then it takes constant attention, action, and constant action pictures of all this. You will get all this light.