SOURCE: Budgeting_Winning_Jack Welch.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.04 HFT - Budgeting
TOPIC: Budgeting Process
SUMMARY: The author criticizes the typical budgeting process as ineffective and instead proposes a new approach that aligns employees with shareholders and inspires growth and creativity.
KEYWORDS: budgeting, management system, negotiated settlement, phony smile
---

Chapter 12

Budgeting

REINVENTING THE RITUAL

Not to beat around the bush, but the budgeting process at most companies has to be the most

ineffective practice in management.

It sucks the energy, time, fun and big dreams out of any organisation. It hides opportunities and

stunts growth. It brings out the most unproductive behaviours in an organisation, from sandbagging

to settling the mediocrity.

In fact, when companies win, in most cases it is despite their budgets, not because of them.

And yet, as with strategy formulation, companies sink countless hours into writing budgets, what a

waste!

I’m not saying financial planning is bad. Without question, you have to have a way to keep track of

the numbers – just not the way it’s usually done.

In this chapter, I’m going to talk about a totally different

The right budgeting process

approach to budgeting. It aligns employees with shareholders,

can change how a company puts growth, energy and fun into financial planning and inspires

people to stretch. In fact, this approach is so unlike the typical

functions – and reinventing

budget process that when we started using it at GE, we stopped

the ritual makes winning so using the word budget altogether.

much easier, you can’t

But more on that later.

afford not to try.

The good news is that the process I recommend is not very hard

to do. It is certainly no harder than the slogging, mind-numbing

budgeting process that is status quo. But this new process can be practiced only if a company has

trust and candour flowing through its veins. As I’ve mentioned throughout this book, that’s rare.

Perhaps budgets that actually inspire creativity and growth will make the case for that to change.

Most companies use budgeting as the backbone of their management systems. And so the right

budgeting process can actually change how a company functions – and reinventing the annual ritual

makes winning so much easier, you just can’t afford not to try.

BUDGETS, THE WRONG WAY

Before describing how to devise budgets the right way, let’s look at the two killing dynamics that are

the norm. I call them the Negotiated Settlement and the Phony Smile approaches to budgeting.

These dynamics, incidentally, aren’t only the purview of big corporate bureaucracies. No matter

what size company you work in, one of these two approaches, maybe both, will probably sound very

familiar to you. In my Q&A session around the world, I’ve heard about them in virtually every

country and in companies with as few as a couple hundred employees, even in organisations that

call themselves entrepreneurial. Bad budgeting is just that insidious; it creeps in everywhere and

establishes itself as an institutionalised process. It’s amazing how many times I have heard audience

members decry entrenched budgeting systems, only for them to wearily conclude, “but that’s just

the way it’s done.”

It doesn’t have to be. But first you have to undo those killing dynamics I just mentioned.

SPLIT THE DIFFERENCE

Of these dynamic, the Negotiated Settlement, is the more common.

This process begins when the ink is barely dry on the strategic plan. That’s when the businesses in

the field start the long slog of constructing the next year’s highly detailed financial plans from the

bottom up. These will be presented in several months’ time at the Big Budget Meeting with

headquarters. The numbers cover everything – from costs to pricing assumptions.

In all their assumptions the people in the field are operating with one simple goal, albeit unstated: to

maximimise their bonus. In other words, their underlying, galvanising mission is to come up with

targets that they absolutely, positively think they can hit.

The people in the field are

Why? Because in most companies, people are rewarded for hitting

budget. Missing your budget gets you a stick in the eye or worse. So operating with one simple

of course people want to keep their budget numbers as low as

goal, albeit unstated: to

possible.

minimize their risk and

No wonder their budgets are filled with layer after layer of

maximize their bonus.

conservatism. Meanwhile, back at headquarters, senior managers

are also preparing for the Big Budget Meeting. Their agenda,

however, is the exact opposite of the field. They’re rewarded for

increased earnings, and so what they want from the budget review

at every business is significant growth in sales and profits.

Now fast-forward to the Big Budget Meeting itself. The two sides meet in a windowless room with a

whole day set aside for what everyone knows will be an unpleasant wrestling match.

The field makes its presentation with a fat deck of PowerPoint slides, and the story is invariably dire.

Despite reports of a pretty good economy, there are reasons to believe this particular business

environment is going to be very difficult. “The competition has just brought a new plant online, and

with its excess supply, there will be enormous pricing pressure”, they might say. Later in the

meeting, you get: “Raw material costs and inflation pressures are severe. In order to meet these

challenges, we need new cost-reduction programs that require $10 million in additional resources.”

The final pronouncement from the business managers usually goes something like this: “To be

optimistic - very optimistic - earnings will likely grow only 6 percent.”

Headquarters, needless to say, has its own view of the situation, and it is decidedly not dire. The

economy is strong. GDP is estimated to rise steadily all year. Orders are up everywhere else in the

company. The main competition has a big asbestos lawsuit against it that will distract management.

The business can get the cost reductions with $5 million in new programs, and earnings should grow

12 percent.

You know what goes on during this marathon - the grumbling and groaning, the probing and data

quoting, the back and forth and back and forth again. On occasion, it can get contentious, especially