SOURCE: Budgeting - WinningJack Welch_pre-read.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Budgeting and Financial Planning
SUMMARY: This passage explores the dynamics of budgeting negotiations, where both sides compromise and end up dissatisfied, leading to a 'phony smile' approach where field teams present ambitious plans that are ultimately stifled.
KEYWORDS: budgeting, negotiation, compromise, phony smile, financial planning
---

The grappling concludes - finally and inevitably - when the sides split the difference. The field gets $7.5 million in resources and a budget with a commitment for 9 percent earnings growth.

Before the field packs up to leave, everyone somberly shakes hands.  The mood is resigned.  For all involved, the unspoken vibe in the room is: we didn’t get what we wanted or what was right.

That pall lasts right up until the moment the field team pulls out of the driveway.  Then the high-fiving begins: “Those stiffs wanted us to deliver 12 percent, and we only have to hand them 9!” the people in the field exclaim.  “Thank God we dodged that bullet!”

The headquarters team is also feeling pretty good about themselves: “Those sandbaggers only wanted to give us 6 percent,” they crow.  “Did you see where they were hiding earnings? We let them off with 9 percent. They’ll deliver that, and probably more, but with their 9 and what we’ve got from the other business, we’ll have enough.”

Soon thereafter, the Negotiated Settlement gets officially approved, and the field and headquarters make their peace over its targets.  They tell each other: “Well, we can live with the numbers this year. We guess they’re OK.”

When the end of the year rolls around, the awful ritual completes itself.  Most often, the field hits or beats their targets and gets their bonuses, and of course headquarters congratulates them.  Job well done!

Everyone is happy, but they shouldn’t be.  In this minimalization exercise, there has been little or no discussion about what could have been.

EVERYONE MAKE NICE

The second budgeting dynamic that saps value is the Phony Smile.

Again, people in the field spend a couple of weeks coming up with a detailed budget plan.  Compared to the Negotiated Settlement approach to budgeting, the sadder part of this dynamic is that often, Phony Smile plans are filled with good ideas and exciting opportunities.  The people in the field have bold dreams about what they can do - make an acquisition, for example, or develop new products - given the right amount of investment. They’re eager to expand their business’s horizons, but they need help from the mother ship.

To make their case, the managers in the field prepare as usual stack of slides. Since retiring from GE, I’ve seen such presentations with as many as 150 pages!  Every competitive angle is covered, and usually overly so.  Typically, these presentations are evidence of painstaking labor, wrought with angst over minutiae and born of long nights of building spreadsheets that contain precision to the last dollar.  It’s likely that nobody actually enjoys putting together these slide packs, but when they’re done along with exhaustion, the team understandably feels an enormous sense of pride and ownership.

On the anointed day, the team, led by a leader we’ll call Sara, travels to headquarters. And there, again in a darkened room, they present their case, slide by slide, to the senior group.

When the show is over, the lights come up, and for a few minutes, the managers and the field people engage in rather pleasant chitchat. It goes like this:

“I see you expect Acme Corp. to build another plant.  That’s very interesting.  They almost went bankrupt in ’88,” one senior manager musters the energy to say.

“Well, they were bought two years ago, and they’ve come back strong,” Sara quickly answers

“Very interesting. Very interesting,” comes the vague reply from a headquarters heavy.

“And I see that you’re expecting the cost of natural gas to hold steady for the first six months,” another headquarters person might offer up as evidence he was listening.

“Absolutely!” Sara responds. “We don’t see any change in that pricing.”

“Hmmm interesting...  Yes, interesting...”

Finally, after a few more perfunctory exchanges, it’s over. The top team smiles brightly and says, “Nice job!  Thanks for coming in!  Have a safe trip home!”  And pretty convinced that they did OK, the field people smile back brightly and go away.

Then there’s the meeting after the meeting.

That’s when the members of the top team sit around talking about how much they are really going to get from this business.  The reality is, headquarters already knows how they are allocating the company’s investment dollars, and they know exactly what revenue and earning numbers they expect in return from each business.  Those decisions, they believe, belong at headquarters, where managers can see the whole picture, pick priorities, and divvy up the goods appropriately.

A few days later, Sara gets a call from a lower-level staff person at headquarters telling her that her business will get about 50 percent of what was asked for at the Phony Smile meeting, and the earnings budget number will be 20 percent higher than the one they submitted.

What a kick in the stomach!  Instantly, Sara is enraged for a slew of reasons at once: Headquarters just didn’t listen!  All that work for nothing!  No one explains anything around here!  And worst of all, now there won’t be enough money for all the things we should be doing.

The next day, Sara goes back to her people for their meeting after the meeting.  Together, they all rail against the injustice and mystery of the corporate edict.

And then, without meaning to, Sara makes matters worse. To appease her team, she takes the money from corporate, now much less than they had asked for, and she evenly parcels it out, a bit to manufacturing, a bit to marketing, a bit to sales, and so on.  Of course, Sara would be smarter to place her bets on one or two programs, but that rarely happens in these situations.  People stuck in the Phony Smile budget game get bitter.  Too often, they lose their sense of commitment to the company and forget how excited they were about their original proposals.  They just take the money from corporate and spread it like crumbs.