SOURCE: Budgeting - WinningJack Welch_pre-read.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Budgeting and Performance Evaluation
SUMMARY: The text discusses how 3M transformed its budgeting approach in China, moving from a negotiated settlement to a stretch goal-based system focused on accountability and external benchmarking.
KEYWORDS: Budgeting, Performance Evaluation, Stretch Goals, Accountability, 3M China
---

You might expect that people in Plastics resented the bonuses paid out to Appliances, or that they wanted and expected more from headquarters for their results.  But by that time, the reinvented approach to budgeting had permeated the organisation.  People understood how it worked, and how it made all of us better by looking outside the company to judge our performance.  After all, what good is beating targets you set in a windowless room?  The real world has its own numbers, and they’re all that matters.

GETTING IT GOING

As I said, it took years for this approach to financial planning to take hold at GE, but I know a case where it was up and running within two - and in China to boot, where modern management techniques in general are just taking hold.

It happened at 3M, the industrial conglomerate, which has been doing business in China for some twenty years.

To an outside observer, 3M’s track record in China has always been solid.  In fact, when Jim McNerney became CEO in January 2001, the company’s Chinese businesses were posting 15 percent annual growth, about three times the company’s average.  For years at budget time, the Chinese team had been congratulated for this level of performance and sent on its way.

But after his years of experience with the impact of stretch goals and operating plans GE - where his last job was CEO of Aircraft Engines - Jim decided to transform budgeting at 3M, including its foreign operations.

His first step, however, was not to install the stretch approach. “You can’t go to stretch directly,” he told me recently. “You have to get a culture of accountability first.”  In other words, people have to mean what they say, deliver their operational and strategic commitments, and take responsibility if that doesn’t happen.

In the past, 3M had something of the Negotiated Settlement approach to budgeting, but with an added twist of benign neglect.  The company called budgets “improvement plans,” which, as Jim notes, “had little commitment attached to them.”  Headquarters and each business unit would come up with agreed - upon numbers during the budgeting ritual, and them amicably part ways until the same event next year.  In the meantime, goals would routinely be missed, and people at headquarters might have gotten angry, but nothing happened.

Over the past four years, as Jim and his team have changed the 3M culture, the “improvement plan” approach to budgeting has all but ended.  There is new candor and trust—and accountability—throughout the organization.  Enough, in fact, that Jim felt it was possible to introduce the stretch approach.

One of its earliest believers was Kenneth Yu, managing director of 3M China and a 3M employee for more than thirty years, first in Hong Kong, then Taiwan, and now in Shanghai.  In his early fifties and a veteran of good results under the old budgeting system, Kenneth was an unlikely candidate to embrace such a major change. But he had, as Jim describes it, “a total reawakening” as to how business could be done.

“Once Kenneth realized that the stretch approach had a safety net, he really bought into the idea that stretching, even without getting there, could be whole lot better than the old game,” Jim recalls.

Rather than come to Jim with the usual conservative growth plan and then beating it, Kenneth presented an operating plan to catapult the China operation to 40 percent annual growth. It involved bold, wide-open thinking about possibilities. For 2002, Kenneth proposed increasing 3M’s R&D investment in China in order to introduce many local product adaptations, and promoted new plant investment to support rapid growth.

In three years, 3M’s business in Greater China had grown from $520 million to $1.3 billion, with ambitious plans for the future.

This does not mean, of course, that stretch has totally taken hold at 3M.  Jim says people are still getting used to the change, but they have definitely come to see that the company now celebrates and rewards people who think big.  Today, “budgeting” at 3M is not about delivering good - enough plans and beating them. It’s about having the courage and zeal to reach for what can be done.

Doesn’t that sound like more fun than budgeting? And it works better too.

A WORD OF CAUTION

Before we finish up this chapter, I just want to make sure that I am not making this change sound too easy.  Experience has shown me that while most people take to reinvented budgeting with enthusiasm, there are always a few diehards who do not and with their actions try to undermine it. Usually, these people are too steeped in tradition to let go of the old link between targets and bonuses.

Sometimes they are just jerks. But whatever the reason, I would be a Pollyanna if I did not acknowledge that these types of managers haunt every company that switches over to the stretch approach.  At GE, we never found or converted them all, but we never stopped trying.

Here’s the modus operandi of these types:  At the outset of the financial planning cycle, they appear too heartily but into the new program and ask their people for big stretch goals.  Then, without openly admitting it, they take the team’s stretch goals and use it as a commitment number—an old-fashioned budget target.  When the end of the year rolls around, these managers take terrible advantage of their people. They identify the stretch number as a target, and they nail the team for not hitting it.

The behaviour stinks, and it sets the whole process back by demonstrating to the people in the trenches that they can’t trust it.  Next time when they are asked to dream, you can be sure their dreams will be very small.