SOURCE: Budgeting_Winning_Jack Welch.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.04 HFT - Budgeting
TOPIC: Business Performance Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses a new approach to budgeting and performance evaluation at GE and 3M, focusing on accountability, stretch goals, and external benchmarking.
KEYWORDS: budgeting, performance management, accountability, stretch goals, benchmarking
---

percent, about ten points higher than the operating plan called for.

Back in the old budgeting days, Plastics would have gotten the big bonuses and Appliances would

have gotten a lump of coal. But with the new approach, both businesses got increased payouts that

were about equal in amount.

At our annual management meeting that year with five hundred of the company’s top people, I went

out of my way to make this story widely known. In fact, I made a point of telling it in my keynote

speech to the group.

Yes, I said, Appliances’ earnings were below plan and showed no rise over the previous year. But the

business’ performance - in a brutal environment - was really impressive compared to its closest

competitors, Whirlpool and Maytag, who had done worse than we had.

As for Plastics, yes, their earnings had beaten the plan, but it had been a layup. We cared more that

one of our competitors had earnings growth of 30 percent and another had a 35 percent rise. We

could have done better and we didn’t. In fact, we hadn’t been aggressive enough on price - a

mistake, pure and simple.

You might expect that people in Plastics resented the bonuses paid out to Appliances, or that they

wanted and expected more from headquarters for their results. But by that time, the reinvented

approach to budgeting had permeated the organisation. People understood how it worked, and

how it made all of us better by looking outside the company to judge our performance. After all,

what good is beating targets you set in a windowless room? The real world has its own numbers,

and they’re all that matters.

GETTING IT GOING

As I said, it took years for this approach to financial planning to take hold at GE, but I know a case

where it was up and running within two - and in China to boot, where modern management

techniques in general are just taking hold.

It happened at 3M, the industrial conglomerate, which has been doing business in China for some

twenty years.

To an outside observer, 3M’s track record in China has always been solid. In fact, when Jim

McNerney became CEO in January 2001, the company’s Chinese businesses were posting 15 percent

annual growth, about three times the company’s average. For years at budget time, the Chinese

team had been congratulated for this level of performance and sent on its way.

But after his years of experience with the impact of stretch goals and operating plans GE - where his

last job was CEO of Aircraft Engines - Jim decided to transform budgeting at 3M, including its foreign

operations.

His first step, however, was not to install the stretch approach. “You can’t go to stretch directly,” he

told me recently. “You have to get a culture of accountability first.” In other words, people have to

mean what they say, deliver their operational and strategic commitments, and take responsibility if

that doesn’t happen.

In the past, 3M had something of the Negotiated Settlement approach to budgeting, but with an

added twist of benign neglect. The company called budgets “improvement plans,” which, as Jim

notes, “had little commitment attached to them.” Headquarters and

each business unit would come up with agreed - upon numbers

during the budgeting ritual, and them amicably part ways until the

What good is beating

same event next year. In the meantime, goals would routinely be

missed, and people at headquarters might have gotten angry, but targets you set in a

nothing happened.

windowless room?

Over the past four years, as Jim and his team have changed the 3M

culture, the “improvement plan” approach to budgeting has all but

ended. There is new candor and trust—and accountability—

throughout the organization. Enough, in fact, that Jim felt it was possible to introduce the stretch

approach.

One of its earliest believers was Kenneth Yu, managing director of 3M China and a 3M employee for

more than thirty years, first in Hong Kong, then Taiwan, and now in Shanghai. In his early fifties and

a veteran of good results under the old budgeting system, Kenneth was an unlikely candidate to

embrace such a major change. But he had, as Jim describes it, “a total reawakening” as to how

business could be done.

“Once Kenneth realized that the stretch approach had a safety net, he really bought into the idea

that stretching, even without getting there, could be whole lot better than the old game,” Jim

recalls.

Rather than come to Jim with the usual conservative growth plan and then beating it, Kenneth

presented an operating plan to catapult the China operation to 40 percent annual growth. It

involved bold, wide-open thinking about possibilities. For 2002, Kenneth proposed increasing 3M’s

R&D investment in China in order to introduce many local product adaptations, and promoted new

plant investment to support rapid growth.

In three years, 3M’s business in Greater China had grown from $520 million to $1.3 billion, with

ambitious plans for the future.

This does not mean, of course, that stretch has totally taken hold at 3M. Jim says people are still

getting used to the change, but they have definitely come to see that the company now celebrates

and rewards people who think big. Today, “budgeting” at 3M is not about delivering good - enough

plans and beating them. It’s about having the courage and zeal to reach for what can be done.

Doesn’t that sound like more fun than budgeting? And it works better too.

A WORD OF CAUTION

Before we finish up this chapter, I just want to make sure that I am not making this change sound

too easy. Experience has shown me that while most people take to reinvented budgeting with

enthusiasm, there are always a few diehards who do not and with their actions try to undermine it.

Usually, these people are too steeped in tradition to let go of the old link between targets and

bonuses.