SOURCE: Budgeting_Winning_Jack Welch.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.04 HFT - Budgeting
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses the challenges of transitioning from a traditional budgeting process to a more flexible, stretch-goal-oriented approach, and the resistance from managers who try to undermine the change.
KEYWORDS: budgeting, change management, stretch goals, resistance to change, performance management
---

enthusiasm, there are always a few diehards who do not and with their actions try to undermine it.

Usually, these people are too steeped in tradition to let go of the old link between targets and

bonuses.

Sometimes they are just jerks. But whatever the reason, I would be a Pollyanna if I did not

acknowledge that these types of managers haunt every company that switches over to the stretch

approach. At GE, we never found or converted them all,

but we never stopped trying.

While most people take to

Here’s the modus operandi of these types: At the outset

of the financial planning cycle, they appear too heartily reinvented budgeting with

but into the new program and ask their people for big

enthusiasm, there are always a few

stretch goals. Then, without openly admitting it, they

take the team’s stretch goals and use it as a commitment diehards who try to undermine it.

number—an old-fashioned budget target. When the end

of the year rolls around, these managers take terrible

advantage of their people. They identify the stretch

number as a target, and they nail the team for not hitting

it.

The behaviour stinks, and it sets the whole process back by demonstrating to the people in the

trenches that they can’t trust it. Next time when they are asked to dream, you can be sure their

dreams will be very small.

Part of the transformation process to a non-budgeting company is to find the managers who pull this

bait and switch. Call them on it, and take whatever action you need to make sure it doesn’t happen

again.

When I talk to business audiences about the right way to budget, regardless of industry or country, I

often get the same question: “The budgeting process in my company is too entrenched to change

the way you describe. What can I do?”

My answer is not to give up. It’s too important.

It may be awkward at first, but change begins when you start talking, and one conversation leads to

another and then another. Everyone knows about the Negotiated Settlement and Phony Smile

dynamics, they’ve lived them, and they know that they take the energy and reality out of budgeting.

So when you bring them up, people may not know how to deal with it—but they can’t just walk

away.

The subject will resonate.

The fact is, there is a way to approach budgeting that blows it up and puts something much better in

its place. It’s a system that can take a Chinese industrial business with modest annual growth and

transform it into an enterprise growing 40-plus percent a year. It can inspire people to keep

innovating and becoming more productive every day, even when global competition seems

insurmountable. It can take people who once sat across the table from one another during debated

about nothing less than the company’s direction and future and put them on the same side.

Very simply, the right “budget” process can change the way companies compete.

People usually groan when you mention budgeting—it’s a necessary evil.

It doesn’t have to be. It shouldn’t be. But the change to a better way has to start somewhere - how

about with you?