SOURCE: Budgeting - WinningJack Welch_pre-read.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Budgeting Transformation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the need to transform the budgeting process in companies by addressing the issues of trust, negotiation, and lack of innovation.
KEYWORDS: budgeting, transformation, trust, negotiation, innovation
---

The behaviour stinks, and it sets the whole process back by demonstrating to the people in the trenches that they can’t trust it.  Next time when they are asked to dream, you can be sure their dreams will be very small.

Part of the transformation process to a non-budgeting company is to find the managers who pull this bait and switch.  Call them on it, and take whatever action you need to make sure it doesn’t happen again.

When I talk to business audiences about the right way to budget, regardless of industry or country, I often get the same question: “The budgeting process in my company is too entrenched to change the way you describe.  What can I do?”

My answer is not to give up. It’s too important.

It may be awkward at first, but change begins when you start talking, and one conversation leads to another and then another.  Everyone knows about the Negotiated Settlement and Phony Smile dynamics, they’ve lived them, and they know that they take the energy and reality out of budgeting.  So when you bring them up, people may not know how to deal with it—but they can’t just walk away.

The subject will resonate.

The fact is, there is a way to approach budgeting that blows it up and puts something much better in its place.  It’s a system that can take a Chinese industrial business with modest annual growth and transform it into an enterprise growing 40-plus percent a year.  It can inspire people to keep innovating and becoming more productive every day, even when global competition seems insurmountable. It can take people who once sat across the table from one another during debated about nothing less than the company’s direction and future and put them on the same side.

Very simply, the right “budget” process can change the way companies compete.

People usually groan when you mention budgeting—it’s a necessary evil.

It doesn’t have to be.  It shouldn’t be.  But the change to a better way has to start somewhere - how about with you?