SOURCE: Budgeting_Winning_Jack Welch.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.04 HFT - Budgeting
TOPIC: Budgeting Practices
SUMMARY: The text discusses the issues with traditional budgeting approaches, such as the Negotiated Settlement and Phony Smile, and proposes a better way of budgeting focused on growth and competition.
KEYWORDS: budgeting, strategic planning, growth, competition
---

The next day, Sara goes back to her people for their meeting after the meeting. Together, they all

rail against the injustice and mystery of the corporate edict.

And then, without meaning to, Sara makes matters worse. To appease her team, she takes the

money from corporate, now much less than they had asked for, and she evenly parcels it out, a bit to

manufacturing, a bit to marketing, a bit to sales, and so on. Of course, Sara would be smarter to

place her bets on one or two programs, but that rarely happens in these situations. People stuck in

the Phony Smile budget game get bitter. Too often, they lose their sense of commitment to the

company and forget how excited they were about their original proposals. They just take the money

from corporate and spread it like crumbs.

My argument here is not with a senior team allocating resources. That’s their job because they have

a strong, informed understanding of what each business can realistically deliver. The trouble arises

when headquarters is secretive about the process, when they don’t explain the rationale behind

their decisions.

But like the Negotiated Settlement dynamic, the Phony Smile usually concludes with everyone

shrugging off the whole enervating event - it’s just business, right? And the next year, they start it all

over again.

A BETTER WAY

Now, you may be wondering, “If companies manage to hit their number and pay bonuses with either

the Negotiated Settlement or Phony Smile approaches to budgeting - as flawed as they are - why

mess with them? At least they deliver.”

The problem is: they often deliver only a fraction of what they could, and they take all the fun out of

setting financial goals. Yes, this annual event can be fun - and it should be.

Imagine a system of budgeting where both the field and headquarters have a shared goal: to use the

budgeting process to ferret out every possible opportunity for growth, identify real obstacles in the

environment, and come up with a plan for stretching dreams to the sky. Imagine a system of

budgeting that is not internally focused and based on hitting fabricated targets, but one that throws

open the shutters and looks outside.

The budgeting system that I’m talking about is linked to the strategic planning process described in

the last chapter, in that it is focused on two questions:

 How can we beat last year’s performance?

 What is our competition doing, and how can we beat them?

If you focus on these two questions, the budgeting process becomes a wide-ranging, anything-goes

dialogue between the field and headquarters about opportunities and obstacles in the real world.

Through these discussions, both sides of the table jointly come up with a growth scenario that is not

negotiated or imposed and cannot really be called a budget at all. It is an operating plan for the next

year, filled with aspiration, primarily directional, and containing numbers that are mutually

understood to be targets, or put another way, numbers that could be called “best efforts.”

Unlike a conventional budget, with its numbers cast in concrete, an operating plan can change as

conditions change. A division or business can have two or three operating plans over the course of

the year, adjusted as needed through realistic dialogue about business challenges. Such flexibility

frees an organisation of the shackles of a budget document that has become irrelevant - or even

downright dead - because of changing market circumstances.

At this point, you might be thinking, “Yeah, yeah, this approach sounds great, but what about my

bonus?”

That’s a good question. It’s the key question, in fact. And the answer is that this operating plan

process can occur under only one condition:

Compensation for individuals and businesses is not linked to performance against budget. It is

linked primarily to performance against the prior year and against the compensation, and takes

real strategic opportunities and obstacles into account.

For many companies, this condition would involve a radical change. People have been trained for

years and years to hit their budget numbers no matter what, and managers have rigidly rewarded

those who did and punished those who didn’t, no matter what.

That was the company I grew up in for twenty years, and largely the company that I inherited when I

became CEO. Over the years, I was at the receiving end of plenty of Phony Smile meetings, and

participated in dozens if not hundreds of Negotiated Settlement meetings on both sides of the table.

But as GE’s culture became more infused with candor, transforming its budgeting process became

more realistic. Eventually, we were able to move our business away from budgets with rock-hard

targets and toward operating plans filled with stretch goals.

That transformation took time - several years, at least. Along the way, I promoted the change as

often as I could.

In 1995, for instance, Appliances was having a brutal go of it. Competitors were churning out high-

quality products at very low prices, and our team was struggling like

At this point, you might be

crazy to catch up. They were innovating with several new product

introductions of their own and improving manufacturing processes, thinking, “Yeah, yeah, this

getting more productive by the day. Still, at the end of the year, their

approach sounds great, but

earnings were 10 percent below internal expectations and about flat

with the previous year. what about my bonus?”

At the same time, Plastics were having a great year. Their market

took off, and shortages of material quickly developed, making it a

seller’s market when it came to pricing. Their earnings jumped 25

percent, about ten points higher than the operating plan called for.

Back in the old budgeting days, Plastics would have gotten the big bonuses and Appliances would

have gotten a lump of coal. But with the new approach, both businesses got increased payouts that

were about equal in amount.