SOURCE: Building Competitive Advantage in Retailing revised2015.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Retail Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses different strategic approaches for building competitive advantage in the retail industry, including cost leadership, differentiation, and niche strategies.
KEYWORDS: Competitive Advantage, Retail Strategy, Differentiation, Cost Leadership, Retail Operations
---

[Document: Building Competitive Advantage in Retailing revised2015.pdf]

The College of William & Mary W&M-M-116R2001

Mason School of Business

Babson College BAB-0695

Building Competitive Advantage in Retailing1

(Revised)

by

Lawrence J. Ring & Douglas J. Tigert

There are several ways to build competitive advantage in the retailing arena. At a generic level,

students of strategy have identified three major strategic thrusts: cost leadership; differentiation;

and focusing on a niche. A niche strategy is certainly a viable strategy when playing in the

corners, or in limited segments of the market. However, as niche players grow more successful,

niches inevitably become larger and less defensible. As a result, retailers are often faced with a

choice between the market strategies of cost leadership and differentiation. We refer to

differentiation activities as working on the Pentagon, and cost leadership activities as working on

the Triangle. Michael Porter has written that strategy is about being different, and that it is not

operational effectiveness. It is the Pentagon on which retailers register their differences in the

minds of customers. But, it is the Triangle on which retailers achieve operational effectiveness,

and while operational effectiveness is not strategy, if a retailer is not operationally effective, then

that is job number one.

The Pentagon

All retailers have a position in the marketplace on all five corners of the pentagon. The pentagon

represents what the customer can see when the customer walks into the store or visits the website

or looks at advertising and promotion—in other words customer facing activities. There are five

major ways in which retailers can visually differentiate themselves from other retailers in the

marketplace. All five corners of the pentagon also have important subcategories as well.

Most retailers do have a paradigm about how they are running the business. However, the

greatest single weakness of most retailers is that they don’t often go back and re-examine that

paradigm--re-examine whether or not what they are doing on all the sub categories of the five

corners of the pentagon is still the best way to run the business--in light of a changing economic

environment, a changing consumer environment, including consumer buying behavior patterns, a

changing technology environment, and a changing competitive environment.

The stronger a retailer is on the pentagon, the more customers it can draw to shop in its stores or

on its website. The ability to draw customers from great distances powers higher sales

1 Original Copyright 1995, revised 2001 by Lawrence J. Ring and Douglas J. Tigert, and revised

2011 by John S. Strong, and by Lawrence Ring, 2015. This note was written with the support of

the Raymond A. Mason School of Business, The College of William & Mary, and of Babson

College. Do not reproduce without permission of the authors.

2

productivity in bricks and mortar stores. Likewise, an appealing and easily navigated website can

also be attractive in drawing customers to a retailer online. Winning on the pentagon means

driving the top line.

The Place Variables

Every Channel

With the advent of online shopping, retailers need to be where their customers expect to find them,

whether that is in bricks and mortar stores, in mail order catalogs, or online. The idea of

omnichannel retailing is to be able to deliver a seamless, integrated experience for the customer

across all channels.

Store Size

One of the issues related to the bricks and mortar place is store size. The way to think about store

size is for the retailer to take each department it wishes to be in and ask, how much space does it

take to “win” in that particular department in the store? This question is particularly important if the

retailer decides it needs a dominant assortment in that particular department. Then, add up the

required square footage in all the different departments that you wish to be in and that determines

your store size.

Of course, size is not an issue on the internet. Theoretically, a retailer can have an “endless aisle”

on its website, provided it has the capacity and technology to deliver an “infinite assortment.”

Location

A second sub category related to place is location. There are several issues related to location.

One issue retailers don’t ask themselves very often is what is the optimal distance between

stores? This issue is especially appropriate for the large and/or growing chain. One thing seems

clear. If a retailer has stores that are two miles apart, the furthest each store can draw is one mile,

which is half the distance to the next store. Even if that store down the road two miles is a

competitor, but is a very similar store, the answer will still be the same. The furthest a retailer can

draw a customer is half the distance to the next similar kind of store. Most traditional department

stores suffer from this problem. As most local and regional department store chains grew over the

last forty years they became the anchors of every suburban shopping center in the region. Now,

the farthest those stores can draw is half the distance to the next mall.

If you limited your sales per square foot opportunity by locating your stores relatively close

together, there is only one way to still ensure good operating profits per square foot and that is by

having very low operating expenses per square foot. There are several retailers that understand

that paradigm and have learned to make a lot of profit per square foot on relatively low sales per

square foot by deciding to become cost leaders, and to become leaders in productivity.

Another location concern has to do with not just how far away my next store is, but what is the

quality of the location itself. Many chains have built location models to help project sales per

square foot for new and existing locations. Wal-Mart has a 1000 variable "traiting" model that they

use to predict what their volume will be at a particular location. In addition, that model is also used