SOURCE: Building Competitive Advantage in Retailing revised2015.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Retail Pricing Strategies
SUMMARY: The text discusses the different pricing strategies used by retailers, such as Every Day Low Prices (EDLP) and Hi/Lo pricing, and the importance of service, knowledge, and climate in the retail environment.
KEYWORDS: EDLP, Hi/Lo pricing, retail pricing, customer service, employee knowledge
---

[Document: Building Competitive Advantage in Retailing revised2015.pdf]

(Every Day Low(est) Prices) and Hi/Lo pricing. EDLP is just what it sounds like, while Hi/Lo

means the retailer has a small percentage of its items on sale each week, while the rest of the

items are at full price. Wal-Mart is probably the most well known proponent of EDLP, while Target

and Kmart are hi/lo pricers.

The People Variables

The people corner of the pentagon also has three sub categories: service, knowledge, and

climate.

Service Offer

The service sub category has to do with the service levels the retailer wishes to execute. There is

a continuum of customer experience retailers might offer from self-service to high level retail

employee service. The service level a retailer needs to execute depends upon the type of retailer it

wishes to be and how it wishes to be positioned in the consumer’s mind. For example, executives

in a department store chain might ask, what is the longest period of time that can pass when a

customer enters a department before that customer must be acknowledged by a sales associate?

Or, a more self-service organization might set a service standard in terms of how long it takes a

customer to actually make a purchase and leave the store. For example, Wal-Mart’s standard is

“three’s a crowd”. Three’s a crowd means that once each check out station in a Wal-Mart store

has two people standing in line, the store manager must open another check out station. That

standard says something about both the number of check out stations a particular store needs and

about labor scheduling and employee training.

Another way to think about service is to measure service intensity. Service intensity is defined as

the number of square feet being managed by each full time equivalent employee. A high number

here indicates relatively low service and coverage while a low number means high service and

coverage.

Online, people also offer service. For example, the retailer might provide a call center or offer live

chat.

Knowledge

The second issue on the people corner of the pentagon has to do with the knowledge levels a

particular retailer wishes its employees to possess. There are only two ways for an employee to

obtain a certain knowledge level. One way is for the retailer or supplier to train the employee. The

other way, of course, is to hire employees, sales associates for example, who already have that

knowledge.

Online knowledge might be provided by on site reviews and by product comparisons.

7

Climate

The third issue related to people is the concept of climate. There are two dimensions to climate.

The first dimension has to do with what customers think about what it is like to shop a particular

store. The second dimension has to do with what employees of a particular store think about what

it is like to work there. A third question has to do with consistency – does the climate the

customers experience, and the climate the employees work in need to be the same?

A major challenge for retailers is to insure consistency of climate and experience for customers

from website to store and vice versa.

Communication

The last corner of the pentagon is communication. For many retailers communication is a tough

problem. It is tough because if a store or chain doesn’t win on place--with a better or bigger or

better designed location or website; doesn’t win on product--more intensity or better assortment or

the right fashion position; doesn’t win on value or service--what can it say about itself? If the chain

isn’t a winner on one or more of the four corners of the pentagon about all that’s left to do is run a

sale--in other words, to do promotional advertising to generate immediate response.

Positioning advertising is communication that tells the customer a retailer “wins” on one or more

corners of the pentagon. Positioning advertising is Nordstrom talking about having its massive

assortment of men’s suits or its thousands of pairs of shoes. Similarly, Wal-Mart or Food Lion

advertising everyday low prices (EDLP) is also positioning--positioning these companies as the

low price leaders in their markets. Bunnings, the Australian home improvement retailer, brags of

“lowest prices”, “widest range”, and “best service.”

Another important aspect is the role of the brand in positioning and communication. This includes

not only the store brand, but also the various product and service brands carried within.

Online retailing offers additional opportunities to personalize communications from retailers to

customers allowing information, offers and recommendations provided to customers to be tailored

specifically to them.

Changing the Pentagon

The Pentagon is the retailer’s face to the public and to its customers. The corners of the Pentagon

hold few secrets from competitors, because they are all very visible. Why do some firms fail to re-

evaluate their position on the corners of the pentagon? The most obvious answer is that many

retailers are not systematically tracking the changing consumer, economic, and competitive

environment and as a result, they are not really aware of what is happening out there. Frequently,

the environment is changing faster than they are changing.

Another explanation is that companies sometimes get old and tired and fail to rejuvenate their

management. They end up suffering from what has been referred to as “paradigm paralysis.” Or,

some companies are unable to change on the corners of the pentagon because they don’t have

the financial resources. Frequently, this problem surfaces after a private equity buyout has been

achieved in a particular retailer. After a buyout, of course, the first call on the cash flow of a

retailer is the interest on the debt--not fixing the place or website or the product or better service or

more advertising and so on.

8

The pentagon’s corners are easy to see and to understand. But, for most retailers, it is difficult to

execute on those corners in such a way as to build a really sustainable competitive advantage.