SOURCE: Building Competitive Advantage in Retailing.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Merchandise Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of merchandise intensity, assortment, and strategies in retail operations to drive sales and gain competitive advantage.
KEYWORDS: inventory management, merchandise assortment, retail strategy, competitive advantage, sales performance
---

in inventory. In general, it has been shown to be more or less true and consistent across retail

sectors that higher merchandise intensity leads to higher sales per square foot. In the year before

Macy’s went into Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the company reduced their inventory 18 percent, most

likely in an effort to produce desperately needed cash flow. Not too surprisingly, Macy’s sales fell

18 percent over that same year.

There is a relationship between how high the stock is and how much you sell. There is another

problem, of course, because the retailer that chooses to stock high and deep still has to figure out

a way to get it out of the store. And, there are only two ways to get a lot of merchandise out the

door. One way is to price it hard--which means being the cost/price leader. The other way is to

sell it hard--which means being the service leader.

Merchandise Assortment

The second major subcategory related to the product corner of the pentagon is merchandise

assortment. A key question here has to do with how a retailer gets the right assortment. Do you,

for example, depend upon a set of buyers who by some well calibrated intestines are very good at

going out there and always buying the “right” merchandise at the right time? If you are in the

fashion business, that approach takes a lot of faith in the buyers being able to consistently, time

and again, go out there and find the right merchandise for your customers.

Alternatively, some believe the right merchandise in the store can only be consistently generated

by being market driven. In other words, being market driven means finding a way to let your

customers tell you what they want.

By using the right measurements, a retailer can soon discover whether an item is a winner or a

loser. What you don't know about, however, is all the items not yet tested. Or, is more testing

needed--how much, and how often--with bellwether stores or photos, or whatever? How many

items should be tested for how long to determine their potential? The concept is the same for both

food and apparel, but it’s a lot easier for a food retailer to do that on a systematic and continuous

basis.

Another aspect of the merchandise assortment sub category has to do with assortment strategy.

The key here has to do with what we are trying to offer the consumer and what role assortment

plays in that offering. For example, a convenience assortment means we are in the business of

saving people time rather than money, and we are not offering wide choice. On the other hand, a

power or dominant assortment means “I’m committed to offering the largest assortment in the

marketplace.” Category killers such as Home Depot in hardware/home improvement or Best Buy

in consumer electronics come to mind.

A competitive assortment is one pretty much the same as that offered by most others in the

marketplace. A differentiated or focused assortment means you are unique in your particular

trading area. It means you are the only place where the customer can find it in the area.

Examples include the Body Shop, the Nature Company, and the Sharper Image. Private label

brands can also provide differentiation. For example, you can only buy Gap jeans at The Gap and

you can only get Craftsman tools at Sears.

The warehouse clubs offer velocity assortments. This strategy means that in the limit they carry

one SKU per product class. They ask the customer to give up choice in order to get a very low

price. Another price-focused assortment strategy is the opportunistic assortment strategy. In this

strategy, everything in the store is bought on deal--everything is bought at something less the full

cost of goods sold price to suppliers. Dollar General follows this strategy as do TJ Maxx and

Marshall’s.

Value

Value is what you pay for what you get. It's a combination of the price and quality variables,

although it appears more and more driven by price. In most retail sectors price is fifty to sixty or

more percent of the total value equation in the mind of the customer. In food, price is 90 percent

of the value equation, while in fashion the price/quality relationship is more like 50/50. And, in

some categories like fashion, there is more than one value position. For example, a retailer can

be low price/low quality like Wal-Mart and be high value to a particular market segment. Or, a

retailer can position itself a little further upscale, as has Kohl's, with modest quality/modest prices,

and be high value to another market segment. And so on--until we find a chain like Neiman-

Marcus operating with among the highest prices and the highest quality and perceived as good

value by a relatively small, very upscale segment of the market.

The People Variables

The people corner of the pentagon also has three sub categories: service, knowledge, and

climate.

Service

The service sub category has to do with the service levels you wish to execute. The service level

a retailer needs to execute depends upon the type of retailer you are and how you wish to be

positioned in the consumer's mind. For example, executives in a department store chain might

ask, what is the longest period of time that can pass when a customer enters a department before

that customer must be acknowledged by a sales associate? Or, a more self-service organization

might set a service standard in terms of how long it takes a customer to actually make a purchase

and leave the store. For example, Wal-Mart's standard is “three’s a crowd”. Three’s a crowd

means that once each check out station in a Wal-Mart store has two people standing in line, the

store manager must open another check out station. That standard says something about both

the number of check out stations a particular store needs and about labor scheduling and

employee training.

Knowledge