SOURCE: Building Competitive Advantage in Retailing.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: This text discusses ways to build competitive advantage in retailing, focusing on cost leadership, differentiation, and niche strategies.
KEYWORDS: competitive advantage, retail strategy, cost leadership, differentiation, niche strategy
---

The College of William & Mary W&M-M-116R2001

Mason School of Business

Babson College BAB-0695

Building Competitive Advantage in Retailing’

(Condensed)

by

Lawrence J. Ring & Douglas J. Tigert

Revised 2011 by John S. Strong

There are several ways to build competitive advantage in the retailing arena. At a generic level,

students of strategy have identified three major strategic thrusts: cost leadership; differentiation;

and focusing on a niche. A niche strategy is certainly a viable strategy when playing in the

corners, or in limited segments of the market. However, as niche players grow more successful,

niches inevitably become larger and less defensible. As a result, retailers are often faced with a

choice between the market strategies of cost leadership and differentiation. We refer to

differentiation activities as working on the Pentagon, and cost leadership activities as working on

the Triangle.

The Pentagon

All retailers have a position in the marketplace on all five corners of the pentagon. The pentagon

represents what the customer can see when the customer walks into the store or looks at

advertising and promotion. There are five major ways in which you can visually differentiate

yourself from other retailers in the marketplace. All five corners of the pentagon also have

important subcategories as well.

Most retailers do have a paradigm about how they are running the business. However, the

greatest single weakness of most retailers is that they never go back and re-examine that

paradigm--re-examine whether or not what they are doing on all the sub categories of the five

corners of the pentagon is still the best way to run the business--in light of a changing economic

environment, a changing consumer environment, including consumer buying behavior patterns, a

changing technology environment, and a changing competitive environment.

Original Copyright 1995, revised 2001 by Lawrence J. Ring and Douglas J. Tigert, and revised

2011 by John S. Strong. This note is written with the support of the Mason Schoo! of Business,

The College of William & Mary, and of Babson College. Do not reproduce without permission of

the authors.

iS)

The Place Variables

Store Size

One of the issues related to place is store size. The way to think about store size is to take each

department you wish to be in and ask yourself, how much space does it take to “win” in that

particular department? This question is particularly important if you decide you need a dominant

assortment in that particular department. Then, add up the required square footage in all the

different departments that you wish to be in and that determines your store size.

Location

A second sub category related to place is one called location. There are several issues related to

location. One issue retailers don't ask themselves very often is what is the optimal distance

between stores. This issue is especially appropriate for the large and/or growing chain. One thing

seems clear. If you have stores than are two miles apart, the furthest they can draw is one mile,

which is half the distance to the next store. Even if that store down the road two miles from you is

not your store, but is a store like you, the answer will still be the same. The furthest you can draw

a customer is half the distance to the next similar kind of store. Most traditional department stores

suffer from this problem. As most local and regional department store chains grew over the last

thirty years they became the anchors of every suburban shopping center in the region. Now, the

farthest those stores can draw is half the distance to the next mall.

If you limited your sales per square foot opportunity by locating your stores relatively close

together, there is only one way to still ensure good operating profits per square foot and that is by

having very low operating expenses per square foot. There are several retailers out there that

understand that paradigm and have learned to make a lot of profit per square foot on relatively low

sales per square foot by deciding to become cost leaders, and to become leaders in productivity.

Another location concern has to do with not just how far away is my next store, but what is the

quality of the location itself. Many chains have built location models to help project sales per

square foot for new and existing locations. Wal-Mart has a 5000 variable "traiting" model that they

use to predict what their volume will be at a particular location. In addition, that model is also used

to divide all the Wal-Mart stores into six groups that have different merchandise mixes that are

then fine tuned to a particular kind of population, in a particular climatic zone, with a particular

buying behavior pattern expressed by consumers in those markets.

Layout and Design

Another sub category related to place is layout and design. The retailer that views layout and

design as an expense rather than an investment in competitive advantage doesn’t understand how

people shop stores, and doesn’t understand the role of store environment as a critical determinant

of store choice.

Some retailers spend a lot of money per square foot for design and construction and others spend

very little. This decision depends upon which business you are trying to be in and whether you are

trying to be a low cost player or whether your strategy is one of high service/high margin. But,

layout and design is just as important as any other element of place or any other element in the

overall marketing strategy.

The Product Variables

Merchandise Intensity

Merchandise intensity is measured by how many dollars you have invested per square foot at cost

in inventory. In general, it has been shown to be more or less true and consistent across retail

sectors that higher merchandise intensity leads to higher sales per square foot. In the year before

Macy’s went into Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the company reduced their inventory 18 percent, most