SOURCE: Building Competitive Advantage in Retailing revised2015.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Merchandise Assortment Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses various retail assortment strategies, such as convenience, power, competitive, differentiated, and velocity assortments.
KEYWORDS: assortment strategy, retail merchandising, product mix, consumer choice, competitive advantage
---

[Document: Building Competitive Advantage in Retailing revised2015.pdf]

much, and how often--with bellwether stores or photos, or whatever? How many items should be

tested for how long to determine their potential? The concept is the same for both food and

apparel, but it's a lot easier for a food retailer to do that on a systematic and continuous basis.

Another aspect of the merchandise assortment sub category has to do with assortment strategy.

The key here has to do with what the retailer is trying to offer the consumer and what role

assortment plays in that offering. For example, a convenience assortment means we are in the

business of saving people time rather than money, and we are not offering wide choice. On the

other hand, a power or dominant assortment means “I’m committed to offering the largest

assortment in the marketplace.” Category killers such as Toys-R-Us in toys and games, Home

Depot in hardware/home improvement or Best Buy in consumer electronics come to mind.

A competitive assortment is one pretty much the same as that offered by most others in the

marketplace. A differentiated or focused assortment means a unique assortment that can’t be

found elsewhere. It means you are the only place where the customer can find it in the area.

Examples include the Body Shop, Papyrus, and Anthropologie. Private label brands can also

provide differentiation. For example, you can only buy Gap jeans at The Gap and you can only get

Craftsman tools at Sears.

The warehouse clubs like Costco and Sam’s Club offer velocity assortments. This strategy means

that in the limit they carry one SKU per product class. They ask the customer to give up choice in

order to get a very low price. Another price-focused assortment strategy is the opportunistic

assortment strategy. In this strategy, everything in the store is bought on deal--everything is

bought at something less the full cost of goods sold price to suppliers. Dollar General follows this

strategy as do TJ Maxx, Marshall’s and Ross Stores.

5

Within assortment strategies retailers also define categories in terms of width and role into such

descriptors as “leadership”, “authority”, “complimentary”, “traffic builder”, “assortment enhancer”,

and “impulse”. Depth of assortment refers to the proportion of the category devoted to entry,

good, better, and best lines.

These assortment strategies apply to both bricks and mortar stores, as well as online. However, a

key question retailers must ask is whether the online assortment should be the same as the in

store assortment, or smaller or larger, and, what are the implications of a decision to be smaller or

larger online to customers?

Style and Fashion

We generally think of apparel when we think of style and fashion. However, there is also style and

fashion in furniture and home furnishings, consumer electronics, and even in food—just check out

a Whole Foods Market or a Wegman’s grocery store.

In apparel, consumers have a vocabulary they use to describe fashion items they purchase. They

use words like “very latest, most fashionable”, “current, up-to-date”, “everyday, basic

conservative”, “contemporary”, and “classic.” One way to visualize a fashion market is to build a

perceptual map of, for example, fashion (on a continuum from high to low) versus value for the

money (also on a continuum from best to worst.) The resulting map would show four quadrants

with one being “high fashion/worst value” such as Neiman Marcus (frequently referred to as

Needless Markup). A second quadrant might be “low fashion/worst value” where Kmart might

come to mind. A third quadrant would be “high fashion/best value” which is where the fast fashion

players like Zara and H&M reside. The fourth quadrant would be “low fashion/best value” and

might include off pricers like TJ Maxx.

Similar thinking could be applied to other categories like consumer electronics or furniture where

once again, retailers must consider the perceived uniqueness of their offerings along with

prevailing trends.

Ethical and Sustainable

In recent years, ethical sourcing and sustainability have become significant issues for retailers.

This implies that products a retailer sells are certified or accredited as being manufactured and

sourced ethically and/or sustainably in a way that minimises harm to the environment and

complies with the retailer’s own philosophies.

Value

Value is what you pay for what you get. It's a combination of the price and quality variables,

although it appears more and more driven by price. In most retail sectors price is fifty to sixty or

more percent of the total value equation in the mind of the customer. In food, price is 90 percent

of the value equation, while in fashion the price/quality relationship is more like 50/50. And, in

some categories like fashion, there is more than one value position. For example, a retailer can

be low price/low quality like Wal-Mart and be high value to a particular market segment. Or, a

retailer can position itself a little further upscale, as has Kohl's, with modest quality/modest prices,

and be high value to another market segment. And so on--until we find a chain like Neiman-

6

Marcus operating with among the highest prices and the highest quality and perceived as good

value by a relatively small, very upscale segment of the market.

As we consider online retailing we need to think in terms of total price, including any delivery

charge that may apply.

Another consideration is how the retailer will set prices. Two often used strategies are EDLP

(Every Day Low(est) Prices) and Hi/Lo pricing. EDLP is just what it sounds like, while Hi/Lo

means the retailer has a small percentage of its items on sale each week, while the rest of the

items are at full price. Wal-Mart is probably the most well known proponent of EDLP, while Target

and Kmart are hi/lo pricers.

The People Variables

The people corner of the pentagon also has three sub categories: service, knowledge, and

climate.

Service Offer

The service sub category has to do with the service levels the retailer wishes to execute. There is