SOURCE: Building Competitive Advantage in Retailing.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Management and Strategy
SUMMARY: This text discusses the key elements of a retailer's competitive strategy, including people, knowledge, climate, and communication.
KEYWORDS: retail strategy, competitive advantage, employee management, customer experience
---

means that once each check out station in a Wal-Mart store has two people standing in line, the

store manager must open another check out station. That standard says something about both

the number of check out stations a particular store needs and about labor scheduling and

employee training.

Knowledge

The second issue on the people corner of the pentagon has to do with the knowledge levels a

particular retailer wishes its employees to possess. There are only two ways for an employee to

obtain a certain knowledge level. One way is for the retailer or supplier to train the employee. The

other way, of course, is to hire employees, sales associates for example, who already have that

knowledge.

Climate

The third issue related to people is the concept of climate. There are two dimensions to climate.

The first dimension has to do with what customers think about what it is like to shop a particular

store. The second dimension has to do with what employees of a particular store think about what

it is like to work there. A third question has to do with consistency — does the climate the

customers experiences, and the climate the employees work in need to be the same?

Communication

The last corner of the pentagon is communication. For many retailers communication is a tough

problem. It is tough because if a store or chain doesn’t win on place--with a better or bigger or

better designed location; doesn’t win on product--more intensity or better assortment or the right

fashion position; doesn’t win on value or service--what can it say about itself? If the chain isn’t a

winner on one or more of the four corners of the pentagon about all that’s left to do is run a sale.

In other words, to do promotional advertising to generate immediate response.

Positioning advertising is communication that tells the customer a retailer “wins” on one or more

corners of the pentagon. Positioning advertising is Nordstrom talking about having 10,000 men’s

suits or 100,000 pairs of shoes. Similarly, Wal-Mart or Food Lion advertising every day low prices

(EDLP) is also positioning--positioning these companies as the low price leaders in their markets.

Another important aspect is the role of the brand in positioning and communication. This includes

not only the store brand, but also the various product and service brands carried within.

Changing the Pentagon

The Pentagon is the retailer's face to the public and to its customers. The corners of the Pentagon

hold few secrets from competitors, because they are all very visible. Why do some firms fail to re-

evaluate their position on the corners of the pentagon? The most obvious answer is that many

retailers are not systematically tracking the changing consumer, economic, and competitive

environment and as a result, they are not really aware of what is happening out there. Frequently,

the environment is changing faster than they are changing.

Another explanation is that companies sometimes get old and tired and fail to rejuvenate their

management. They end up suffering from what has been referred to as “paradigm paralysis.” Or,

some companies are unable to change on the corners of the pentagon because they don’t have

the financial resources. Frequently, this problem surfaces after an MBO or LBO has been

achieved in a particular retailer. After an LBO, of course, the first call on the cash flow of a retailer

is the interest on the debt--not fixing the place or the product or better service or more advertising

and so on.

The pentagon’s corners are easy to see and to understand. But, for most retailers, it is difficult to

execute on those corners in such a way as to build a really sustainable competitive advantage.

And, once set on a particular corner of the pentagon, the bottom line focus most retailers have on

ROI tends to insure a sort of negative inertia toward change.

Often, it is new players who invent or develop new sources of competitive advantage in retailing.

Frequently the incumbents are reluctant to change because they have made an investment in the

present. The new players may come from many backgrounds. Sometimes the new players are

former “losers” who have learned something--Sol Price at Fed-Mart and then Price Company

comes to mind. Or, maybe they left a winner, such as the founders of Costco, former senior

managers at Price Company. Sometimes they are “brand new” entrepreneurs, Build-a-Bear, for

example. Sam Walton was a successful Ben Franklin franchisee who tried for years to get Ben

Franklin to commit to discounting in small towns. Finally, when Franklin would not support the

concept, he did it himself. TJX grew out of Zayre, and so forth.

The Triangle

The pentagon has to do with all of those things a retailer does that the customer can see. Behind

the scenes, however, often not seen at all by the customer, are the elements of the triangle. For

the most part, working hard on each of the elements of the triangle is the way retailers reduce their

costs. Reducing costs through better programmed supply relationships, better logistics, and better

systems.

Systems

Systems provide the mechanisms for controlling flows and operations. They are carriers for

operational decisions and business processes. The information they supply can provide

competitive advantage if timely action can be taken. Increasingly retailers need systems that allow

them to manage item by item, store by store.

Logistics

This corner of the triangle concerns the movement of goods from suppliers to stores and

encompasses distribution centers and transportation. It is a major factor in operations and

financial performance that relates time and inventory (turns). In many retail supply chains there

exist significant opportunities to reduce loss from theft, breakage, spoilage, intentional fraud, and

unintentional inaccuracies.

Suppliers

Supply relationships determine deals, terms, delivery quantities, and dates, etc. Relationships

range from adversarial to cooperative.

Triangle Activities

The many triangle activities can also be categorized as quick response, replacement of labor by

technology, and merchandising and space management.