SOURCE: Building Competitive Advantage in Retailing revised2015.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Retail Location and Store Design
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of store location, layout, and design in building a competitive advantage in the retail industry.
KEYWORDS: retail location, store design, competitive advantage, layout, online offer
---

[Document: Building Competitive Advantage in Retailing revised2015.pdf]

square foot by deciding to become cost leaders, and to become leaders in productivity.

Another location concern has to do with not just how far away my next store is, but what is the

quality of the location itself. Many chains have built location models to help project sales per

square foot for new and existing locations. Wal-Mart has a 1000 variable "traiting" model that they

use to predict what their volume will be at a particular location. In addition, that model is also used

to divide all the Wal-Mart stores into groups that have different merchandise mixes that are then

3

fine tuned to a particular kind of population, in a particular climatic zone, with a particular buying

behavior pattern expressed by consumers in those markets.

Layout and Design

Another sub category related to place is layout and design. The retailer that views layout and

design as an expense rather than an investment in competitive advantage doesn’t understand how

people shop stores, and doesn’t understand the role of store environment as a critical determinant

of store choice.

Some retailers spend a lot of money per square foot for design and construction and others spend

very little. This decision depends upon which business a retailer is trying to be in and whether the

strategy is to be a low cost player or whether the strategy is one of high service/high margin. But,

layout and design is just as important as any other element of place or any other element in the

overall marketing strategy.

It is also important to look beyond what is spend to build and open the store. The more successful

the store the more traffic it attracts and the faster it becomes tired. Chains also need to spend

money regularly to renovate and refresh their existing stores. For example, Zara and H&M refresh

their stores every two years.

Online Offer

The online place, the website, is not so much a question of size and location, but more a question

of online offer. For example, an office supplies retailer might have a website that can serve three

different segments of the market, end consumers, small businesses, and corporate customers.

The website might be adapted for both mobile and tablet access. The offer could also include

useful apps, blogs, and social media access such as Facebook, twitter, and Pinterest. Another

important issue for the online offer is what security features are available.

System Usability and Navigation

Just as store layout and design are important to bricks and mortar stores, so to is system usability

and navigability to the website. Ease of use is very important here, beginning with the ease of

login. Then, other important features include the ease and completeness of product search

results, stock availability messaging, and product details. Customers appreciate product

recommendations, personalized content, and help centers and the availability of live chat. Finally,

an easy checkout experience is also critical.

The Product Variables

Merchandise Intensity

Merchandise intensity in the bricks and mortar store is measured by how many dollars the retailer

has invested per square foot at cost in inventory. In general, it has been shown to be more or less

true and consistent across retail sectors that higher merchandise intensity leads to higher sales

per square foot (up to a point, after which additional inventory becomes counterproductive as the

store becomes hard to shop.) In the year before Macy’s went into Chapter 11 bankruptcy (1992),

the company reduced their inventory 18 percent, most likely in an effort to produce desperately

needed cash flow. Not too surprisingly, Macy’s sales fell 18 percent over that same year.

4

There is a relationship between stock intensity and sales density. There is another problem, of

course, because the retailer that chooses to stock high and deep still has to figure out a way to get

it out of the store. And, there are only two ways to get a lot of merchandise out the door. One way

is to price it hard--which means being the cost/price leader. The other way is to sell it hard--which

means being the service leader.

The concept of merchandise intensity really has little meaning for the retailer’s website because

there really isn’t anything like inventory per square foot in the online world.

Merchandise Assortment

The second major subcategory related to the product corner of the pentagon is merchandise

assortment. A key question here has to do with how a retailer gets the right assortment. Does the

retailer, for example, depend upon a set of buyers who by some well calibrated intestines are very

good at going out there and always buying the “right” merchandise at the right time? If you are in

the fashion business, that approach takes a lot of faith in the buyers being able to consistently,

time and again, go out and find the right merchandise for their customers.

Alternatively, some believe the right merchandise in the store can only be consistently generated

by being market driven. Being market driven means that the retailer must find a way to let his or

her customers tell the retailer what they want.

By using the right measurements, a retailer can soon discover whether an item is a winner or a

loser. What isn’t known, however, is all the items not yet tested. Or, is more testing needed--how

much, and how often--with bellwether stores or photos, or whatever? How many items should be

tested for how long to determine their potential? The concept is the same for both food and

apparel, but it's a lot easier for a food retailer to do that on a systematic and continuous basis.

Another aspect of the merchandise assortment sub category has to do with assortment strategy.

The key here has to do with what the retailer is trying to offer the consumer and what role

assortment plays in that offering. For example, a convenience assortment means we are in the