SOURCE: Business Owners Wisdom - Brett Blundy (Editable).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Entrepreneurship and Business Lessons
SUMMARY: The text discusses the business wisdom and key influences of an entrepreneur, including lessons from Sam Walton and Walmart's success.
KEYWORDS: entrepreneurship, business lessons, Sam Walton, Walmart, continuous improvement
---

trap that I never thought I would. We went down to Bunnings and figured it out

and the damn possum trap’s cost me $600. We could have bought it on eBay and

it would have worked better but we’ll end up catching the possum then we’ll let

it go somewhere else but we’ll possess the journey. I’ve got the freedom to be

able to do this, that’s what I enjoy. So, on the one hand, I’m very lucky to have

had my business success early.

BK: And the kids later.

48 Business Owners’ Wisdom

BB: I haven’t had to compromise and I don’t think that I’ll have to do that. But you

might have to come back in a few years and ask me that question again.

BK: tell me about the people that have really influenced you in your career.

you mentioned Craig Kimberley.

BB: Craig Kimberley, yes.

BK: Who were the others who have really inspired you?

BB: Without knowing it, Craig Kimberley influenced me. I am an absolute

Sam Walton of Walmart tragic. As I told you, I was a great learner, and I’ve been

to Bentonville, Arkansas, on several occasions. I was fortunate enough in 2006

to spend three full days with every leader of Walmart. Back then, when Lee

Scott was the CEO, I had the great fortune to meet Sam Walton. I also spent

three hours with the man himself when he came out to Australia, just by pure

chance.

The reason that that’s influenced me so much is because Sam Walton built,

in my view, the greatest company in the world. It’s certainly the most successful

retailer. And even though we’re in a different sector of the market, the principles

are the same.

I’ve been a great student of Walmart ever since it was only in five states

or something. But he was already on his way. And he just made sense. So for

three hours, I was riveted. I was a kid of twenty-six and I just went and put so

many of those things into the business. So, he, without a doubt, has been a

major influence in many of the ways in which we operate. That’s when I really

understood culture. I instinctively knew what was going on but that word culture

hadn’t come into my vocabulary back then.

I am a fan of Jack Welch in his sort of candid, direct continuous improvement,

‘Be number one’ approach.

BK: yes, bottom 10% of managers leaving every year.

BB: Just in the way to keep it disciplined and focused. That would probably cover

the guys that have influenced the business to some degree.

BK: the practice of the business.

BB: Yes. Sam Walton would be by far the biggest one. I’m a tragic man. I’ve been

to his gravesite. That’s just terrible. I’m like some groupie.

BK: I get that. now, let me finish by asking you for a motto, a quote, or thought

that best summarises your approach to life or business.

Brett Blundy 49

BB: I would have to tell you that there are two. I think I probably mentioned one

of them, but it’s always about the customer. I’ve mentioned this one already too,

but I truly believe that in the continuous learning, continuous improvement is

that if something can be done better–

BK: do it better.

BB: It should be. I say that quite often. The one that I have for the family is that

we’re a ‘yes’ family. It’s just that one day, it’s going to get me into trouble.

‘… I truly believe in continuous learning, continuous improvement.

If something can be done better, do it better.’

BK: What’s a ‘yes’ family?

BB: ‘Yes’ means ‘Yes, can do,’ in the sense of no whingeing. Remember, I’ve got

a four-year-old and a two-year-old. ‘Could you bring the plate to the table?’ ‘Yes.’

Do you have kids, Brett?

BK: yes, seven, five and six months.

BB: Well, you’ll get it. You know, ‘Can we put drops in your eyes?’ ‘Yes,’ instead of

fighting about it. So I think yes is the answer. Everything ought to be ‘Yes’ before

it’s not.

BK: It can be done.

BB: Those are three things. We all say, ‘No’ too often.