SOURCE: Business Owners Wisdom - Brett Blundy (Editable).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Entrepreneurship and Business Partnerships
SUMMARY: The text discusses the successful business partnership between Brett Blundy and his colleague Daniel, highlighting the importance of shared principles, mutual respect, and close collaboration.
KEYWORDS: business partnership, shared principles, mutual respect, collaboration
---

We’ll go buy this.’ I can’t remember what percentage that equated to, but when

we floated, he had about 3%. I think he might have had 18% before that?

BK: About 18% when it started?

BB: When we started, that $23 000.

BK: And then, what was the float value, roughly?

BB: Oh, we were a hundred million. So he had about $3 million.

BK: What year was that?

BB: 1999. And we did this in about 1992. So, terrific run. Essentially, we kept it in

Melbourne, I was Sydney. Daniel and I spent almost every day of our lives talking

to each other on the phone, sometimes ten times a day.

BK: What have been the greatest challenges for you? Most people have

identified finding and keeping good people?

BB: Sure it is.

BK: So, you know daniel is the right guy. He’s ambitious. He’s got the right

character. you give him an opportunity to buy in and you know that he

fundamentally respects you and agrees on those foundational principles that

you think would make it successful. even though you’re not there, you can

ticktack in and it’s as good as being there.

BB: It’s as good as being there. We had a terrific relationship. He absolutely

Brett Blundy 37

honoured the principles and the culture in the way that I understood it –

customer first and the need to create energy through our culture, standards and

disciplines. That was very important. The second thing was we liked each other.

I have always had the privilege, as an owner, of working with people that I like.

We had a good relationship. He was the sort of guy that when he was stuck

on a decision, when he had nowhere to go, he’d pick up the phone and say,

‘What do you think we should do here?’ And we’d talk about it. Then he’d go off

and make the decision. Now, I’m always very involved and I certainly was back

then. So, it wasn’t that I wasn’t playing the director role. We would talk regularly

and I’d be a part of that. But fundamentally, I was putting most of my effort into

Bras N Things.

BK: And before you got out of that business, he’d done about five years with

you?

BB: Yes, probably at least five because he started when he was sixteen, remember?

So, it was probably five years full-time. Back then, remember that was when we

had eight stores.

BK: you were spending a lot of time with each other. He just knew intuitively

what you would probably do in those situations.

BB: I had taught him and we’d worked together on many occasions in the store

so we were probably like a hand and a glove. I don’t know who was the hand

and who was the glove, but we fitted well. But I don’t just mean Daniel. I have

Greg Milne who’s still with me today. He came on as the first general manager of

Bras N Things. That’s twenty years ago.

BK: you found him when he was young, too?

BB: He’s five years older than me. We still work together. Greg’s just a great retailer

with great passion, great energy and great creativity. He’s probably the smartest

retailer that we’ve got in the group. But again, we work together. We enjoy each

other’s creativity.

BK: Instinct?

BB: We’ve enjoyed twenty years of working together. He took a break from us

and went and ran Sunglass Hut around the world but came back. The question

is, ‘What’s the hardest thing to do when you’re growing rapidly?’ It is to reload, to

bring the people up. It’s much easier to bring them up than it is to bring them

in from the outside. But some months, we’d open seven stores. You’d just throw

them in. Some would work and some wouldn’t. We’ve got lots of wonderful

38 Business Owners’ Wisdom

stories. Daniel is one. Shane Fallscheer who runs Lovisa. He started as a store

manager in Sanity and he’s now running Lovisa around the world. The great guys

are great, but they’re hard to find. Eagles don’t flock together.

BK: How do you find them?

BB: I have a focus on succession planning. It wasn’t even something that I

thought was some great business idea. When you’re growing retail fast or grow-

ing any business fast, you’ve always got a demand for people so it’s forcing you to

think about it. It’s forcing you to watch people. It’s forcing you to give people a go.

Back then, I was young I didn’t have a problem with making someone who

was twenty-one a regional manager if they had the right attitude. I think, in lots

of ways, we’ve lost a bit of that as we’ve all got older. The organisation’s got older.

I’ve got older. The leadership’s got older. We forget that twenty-one-year-olds can

do the job. Not all of them, but some of them. We shouldn’t look at someone

and say, ‘You’re too green.’ If I had done that twenty-five years ago, we wouldn’t

have many of the senior leaders we do at the moment. I’m a huge fan of youth

and energy. And retail is not difficult. It’s just demanding.

BK: that’s a really good line.

BB: It’s true. As a result of that, you’re looking for people that have good attitude,

that can commit and work hard.

‘I’m a huge fan of youth and energy. And retail is not difficult.

It’s just demanding‘

BK: And work through the obstacles?

BB: And you can have a stellar career at an early age in retail. We’re always behind.

Having said all that, we haven’t got enough people. And as we go around the

world, it’s the same thing, trying to find quality executives. Because now, it’s not

just, ‘Oh, we might send you to Western Australia if you’re keen.’ Now, we might