SOURCE: Business Owners Wisdom - Brett Blundy (Editable).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Global Business Expansion
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of finding qualified executives to support the global expansion of the business, highlighting the need for unique individuals willing to work in diverse international locations.
KEYWORDS: global expansion, talent acquisition, international operations, business growth, workforce development
---

Having said all that, we haven’t got enough people. And as we go around the

world, it’s the same thing, trying to find quality executives. Because now, it’s not

just, ‘Oh, we might send you to Western Australia if you’re keen.’ Now, we might

send them to Russia or China or South Africa or Brazil and that’s another obstacle.

So it takes an even more unique person. So, again, if you’re keen and ready,

you’ve got a head start.

BK: tell me the story of diva. I find it interesting that here you are, a bloke from

country Victoria who goes into bras at twenty-odd, and then you get into diva.

BB: It’s a fast fashion girls’ jewellery. Well, girls are great shoppers. That’s the key.

Brett Blundy 39

BK: How many diva stores are there globally now?

BB: About seven hundred.

BK: And how many countries are you in?

BB: Twenty-two.

BK: How did you get started in this business?

BB: OK. I’ve probably touched on a couple of things related to what was driving

me in regards to Bras N Things but along the way, I’ve missed so much in the

story. Brett, at one stage, we had a hundred and ten Sanity stores in the UK.

So I was having the joy of flying over to the UK every month and spending a week

there. While I was over there, I noticed this spectacular jewellery, costume

jewellery. I looked at it and thought, ‘This is £3. Just look at this stuff.’

It was just mulling around in my mind as, ‘That’s the next thing’. I wanted to

deliver quality stuff that women were going to wear once at $9.95. Or you could

wear a different pair of earrings every day to work. It was fast fashion, disposable

fashion. And vertical was very important to me.

Bras N Things had started to shift aggressively into vertical, which means we

weren’t buying brands anymore. We were going direct to the factories, designing,

creating our own stuff, and bringing it in. Essentially removing the middleman,

making everything faster and more dynamic. Customers loved it. This was going

around my head when I was doing store visits as I do every Thursday night.

I was walking down to a Sanity store in the Imperial Arcade in Sydney when I saw

a store called Diva. And that was it. Someone was doing exactly what I wanted.

I loved the look of the store and the product that was in it. I rarely talked to

Vanessa, my wife, about business, but I went home that night and said, ‘I’ve just

seen this great store that’s exactly what I was thinking we ought to do. Diva, in

the Imperial Arcade.’ And she said, ‘That’s my boss.’ She was working for Three,

as in Three Technologies, phones. She was in charge of the rollout. Anyway, she

said, ‘I’ve been meaning to talk to you about that. They want me to come and be

a part of it. Not just as an employee, but as a part of it.’ I thought, ‘That’s

interesting, what are they planning on doing?’

To cut a long story short, we had dinner with Mark and Colette Hayman. They

were going to franchise the concept when I suggested I’d fund it, help them

with the funding and the strategy. That was the start of Diva. So I ended up with

a third. Vanessa ended up with three and a third percent.

Vanessa and Colette got on and started rolling stores out. They took care of

the product, created the product. It was a fantastic success. And a few years on,

Mark and Colette came to me and said, ‘We’re done. Do you want to buy it?’

40 Business Owners’ Wisdom

I said, ‘Sure,’ and that’s what happened. So I bought it all and then we pushed it

around the world.

There are two things that are very important to Diva and now Lovisa. Two

years ago, we created Lovisa as sort of a more Sex and the City version of Diva,

which is more appealing to a different stage of life. But Diva has always appealed

to me because it’s global – and I believe retail is going to be more and more

global – and because we’re totally in charge of the entire supply chain.

BK: So you design the products, manufacture the products and ship them

directly into your stores globally?

BB: We do it by air, so it’s very fast. It’s a very global business because we don’t

have to worry too much about localised needs. The more global the world

becomes, fashion just becomes more and more the same. Essentially, that is

why Diva and Lovisa are global-growth businesses whereas my other businesses

are still predominantly Australian. We’re very proud of Diva. We’re very proud of

Lovisa. We’re proud of all the brands.

BK: now, tell me, you’ve said you wanted to have a national business for no

particular reason. Is this what happened with diva? did you say, ‘Wouldn’t

it be great to have a global business?’ I guess what I’m getting at is, was it

driven not just by economics, but more by a challenge?

BB: There’s no question. Sometimes it’s hard to say this without it sounding sort

of cute or arrogant, but sometimes you wonder, ‘Wouldn’t it be good if we could

do that?’ Absolutely, that comes from a drive to want to do more and be better

– continuous improvement. It comes from a sense of, ‘Let’s break the mould. Let’s

do things that haven’t been done before.’

There are two parts. One is that it’s just a part of my nature, probably. But two

is it’s also proven to be successful because you’ve always got to be breaking the

mould. You’ve always got to be moving forward.

BK: these are not businesses that you can just sit down and say, ‘that’s done.

We’ll just let the cash start rolling in.’