SOURCE: Business Owners Wisdom - Brett Blundy (Editable).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Planning and Growth Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of flexibility in business planning, with a focus on Brett Blundy's approach of having a broad view of the future rather than a rigid long-term plan, as well as his diversification into new areas like beef production.
KEYWORDS: Business Planning, Growth Strategy, Flexibility, Diversification, Beef Production
---

very important for business. But when it comes to change, you’ve actually got to

get them out of that. So, it’s hard. That gives you a sense, I think, of what we do.

BK: What’s the role of planning? does it involve retirement?

BB: There’s always a plan. But I have to tell you, I’m not one of those guys who

plans more than five years ahead. I’ll have a view of where we’re going but

I won’t have a hard and fast plan that goes beyond five years, because I have never

been able to see a plan that’s set that far ahead. Certainly, for the businesses that

we operate, I’d prefer to have a view of where we’re going and then be flexible,

probably a bit of that entrepreneurialism that allows for, ‘Hang on …’

BK: Some flexibility.

BB: But in broad sense will I ever retire? Actually I don’t think so. I like what I do.

Brett Blundy 43

Would I like to stop working? I still work six and seven days a week, which is a bit

unnecessary these days. I’m probably slowing down somewhat but I still call myself

a retailer. Our homemaker property is a very big business now and separate and

standalone and Darren Holland runs that. We’ve just moved into beef, so we’ve

got beef, and we’ve got fifty thousand head of cattle up in the Northern Territory.

‘I’ll have a view of where we’re going but I won’t have a hard

and fast plan that goes beyond five years, because I have never

been able to see a plan that’s set that far ahead.’

BK: What’s that about?

BB: It’s separate; it’s a new initiative.

BK: What’s it called?

BB: The station is called Beetaloo. It’s 2.6 million acres [1 million hectares] so it’s

very big. And that is absolutely what it’s about now. If I had a broad sense of, you

know, ten years from now, then we’ll have a lot more beef and we’ll be good at

beef. And the reason beef–

BK: do you get support? you grow it and sell it?

BB: I absolutely believe in the export market because I’m an absolute believer in

Asia.

BK: A lot of people to feed up there.

BB: The world is progressing. It’s going to need more and more food. Beef is

going to be an important part of the growing middle class in all the South-East

Asian countries. Protein is very important. And so, I like it. Maybe it’s a little bit of

that country boy in me coming back again.

There really are three main areas, but from time to time, good investments

come to me. BridgeClimb is a classic example of somebody bringing an idea that

just appealed to me. As it turned out, it only appealed to Paul Cave and Brett

Blundy and nobody else!

BK: except a few million people who have now done it!

BB: And that was an eleven-year journey.

44 Business Owners’ Wisdom

BK: to get it approved.

BB: Exactly. So from time to time, those things come along. We’ve got other

investments, but that’s essentially the group. We’ll get bigger at retail. We’ll get

bigger at retail property. We’ll get bigger at beef. What’s after that, I don’t know.

We’ll see where that goes.

BK: What role does money now play?

BB: That’s a great question, Brett.

BK: What is it? What’s it for? How much do you need? How much do you

want? People write you up on rich lists and that sort of thing, but what does

it actually mean to you?

BB: I think when you go back to the early days, when I started at twenty. I thought

twenty grand would be great. Twenty grand, wouldn’t that be wonderful? And

then I thought, ‘What if we could have an Australia-wide chain? Wouldn’t that be

great?’ Now, we’ve got five and two global chains.

In the early days, of course, money was nice. It’s nice having a nice place to

live and a car and holidays, having some of those luxuries. It certainly was a driver

for me and I assume a driver for a lot of people. But you get to a stage where,

of course – that’s why it’s such a great question because I do what I do because

I enjoy it, the challenges of it, taking the risks, and so on. And as it turns out, it

wasn’t for the money. I’d probably do it anyway. Then it gets to a stage where, of

Brett Blundy 45

course, I’m very grateful for where I’ve gone, past the money. If I had any sense, I’d

listen to some people, I’d retire and I’d be fine. That’s a wonderful feeling.

What I think the biggest thing it does for you, that I really enjoy, is it gives

me freedom. And that’s what to me, the wealth that’s been created through this

journey is all about. I’ve got the freedom. So, I can actually choose whether I want

to work or not. I can choose to be the boss. I can choose what I invest in. That’s

a great feeling, too. That’s very important to me.

BK: So, choose who you work with, what you work on, when you work?

BB: All those things. Now, that’s not to say that I don’t have days where I think,

‘Oh crikey, that was bloody hard.’ Or if you have to fire somebody that that’s still

a shit thing to do. But in the main, it’s about freedom to be able to determine all

those things. That’s the greatest gift I think I’ve got out of that.

Then, in terms of, ‘Why keep going?’, it’s a bit like if something should be done

better, then we’re going to do it better. I don’t know if the other guys gave you

this answer or not, but that’s what seems to matter to me.