SOURCE: Business Owners Wisdom - Brett Blundy (Editable).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Continuous Improvement and Innovation
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of continuous improvement, innovation, and challenging employees in order to drive business growth and success.
KEYWORDS: continuous improvement, innovation, business growth, challenging employees, organizational culture
---

is it’s also proven to be successful because you’ve always got to be breaking the

mould. You’ve always got to be moving forward.

BK: these are not businesses that you can just sit down and say, ‘that’s done.

We’ll just let the cash start rolling in.’

BB: I’m not sure there’s any business you can do that to. So I think it’s a business

necessity, at least it is for growth, if you want to continue to become more

dynamic. But you’ve got to push yourself to improve. You’ve got to make some

mistakes to learn from them, but hopefully not too many. So I think there’s a nice

combination of it being a sensible thing to do from a strategic point of view. It’s

also important to do something that keeps you fresh and current and moving

forward.’

Brett Blundy 41

BK: And good to retain your best people by challenging them.

BB: I think that’s the nature of our organisation. I’m not sure that that would be

true for everybody, but there’s no question that if you’re a leader in BB Retail

Capital, you know that there are no easy days. You’ve got to keep going. Not

everybody likes that culture because it is continuous improvement. If something

can be done better, then it’s going to be done better. It’s not, ‘Oh, it’s OK,’ or,

‘Our result is good.’ It really is about whatever we’re doing now, we’re going to

do better next year. And that can be a bit relentless to some people. I don’t see

it that way, but it is.

BK: Also, do you find that you attract people that are attracted to that mindset,

to those values?

BB: I think cultures are a wonderful thing because when you step into a culture,

culture helps you define whether you’re going to like it or not. And not everybody

has to like it. That’s the important thing. It shouldn’t be forced. But it is one

that says we will look after our customers no matter what. We will continuously

improve, no matter what. Our cost of doing business will go down every year,

no matter what. They also happen to be very sensible and appropriate business

philosophies, too.

BK: yes. How much of that is conscious in terms of you sitting down and

thinking that through and writing it down? How much of that is from the cut

and thrust of day-to-day working out, that it’s just necessary to get your costs

under control and keep them going down in order to stay competitive?

BB: Easy answer, Brett, and there are two parts to it. In the early days, it was

just a necessity. The best thing I ever did was come up with a back-of-the

-envelope, napkin-type solution, but there was thinking going on. Now, there is

no question with the group the size that it is, that I and others think about it, we

launch projects, we have a university every year to bring two hundred and fifty

executives from around the world in and we launch programs that are designed

to continuously foster that thinking. So, there’s no doubt, as we’ve got bigger, it’s

become purposeful. It’s been thought about. But in the early days, it was just,

‘Hang on. How do we do that better?’

BK: tell me about your training. How much training do you do, is there an

induction? Has there been a big dollar commitment to your annual university?

BB: I’m certain that we overspend in terms of how others would do this but again,

there are two parts. It’s very important now, but I’ve always wanted to learn and

I just expect everybody else should, too. It was a bit of a shock to me that people

42 Business Owners’ Wisdom

don’t always want to. So I force my guys to read books. But there is no question

that it’s important.

You asked me about our weaknesses at the moment, and we are not good

enough at training all our team. Retail is a high-churn industry so we’ve constantly

got to be teaching and training on both the cultural stuff as well as how to

do the job. And we don’t do it well enough. We’ve just introduced some new

software last year that I am hoping will make a real difference. It’s called World

Manager and I love it. I think it’s a game changer for retail because it allows us

to track stock and be more interactive with our training in a systemised way.

Essentially, that’s what it does.

BK: So it’s e-learning modules and that sort of stuff?

BB: It’s e-Learning, but in the sense that allows us to be consistent and to know

that it’s being delivered. That’s my pet hate. When I walk into a store and say,

‘Good day,’ to the team. I ask, ‘How long have you been with us? How’s your

training going? Can you pull out your manual?’ That really does it for me. I get

cranky because if you can’t measure it, then it’s bound to fail. It’s designed to be

consistent. You know what they’re getting and you can see no matter where they

are that it’s being completed and so on. So it gives a measurement and a tool

that of course means that we’re getting a better success rate. That’s the wonderful

thing about technology. It’s not only improved our efficiency in delivering the

training, but we’re actually getting more.

BK: doing more, more consistent and controlled.

BB: But we all have the same problem. Change is difficult for organisations and

we’ve got eight thousand people. Humans like to get into a rhythm. Rhythm is

very important for business. But when it comes to change, you’ve actually got to

get them out of that. So, it’s hard. That gives you a sense, I think, of what we do.

BK: What’s the role of planning? does it involve retirement?