SOURCE: Business Owners Wisdom - Brett Blundy (Editable).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Growth and Learning
SUMMARY: The text describes the founder's approach to continuous learning, building a motivated team, and overcoming challenges in rapidly growing a business.
KEYWORDS: continuous learning, company culture, business expansion, banking relationships, tenacity
---

two weeks off. I go and learn. It can be straight business conferences or the YPO

is wonderful for non-business things, but learning just the same. I still do that

today because I believe that you never know what you don’t know. You’ve got to

keep going forward.

I encourage all my guys. It’s a cultural commitment to continuous improve-

ment. I’ve always been like that. It was part of the Just Jeans thing, thinking, ‘How

did somebody else do it?’ or, ‘That’s a good idea. We’ll put that in place.’ So out

of that came the training manuals and induction manuals. I started to understand

what culture was in terms of excitement and parties and making sure the team

were engaged. Fortunately, I was in the record business, so it was pretty easy.

BK: to do a good party.

BB: I started to learn that culture was everything. You needed an excited,

motivated, committed team with an attitude that was about ‘we will win’. So

you look for those people who are competitive, you look for those people who

want to move up and I just got on and started to systemise. I started to look for

electronic cash registers–

BK: So the latest technology that you could use to get the best systems in

your business.

BB: Just Jeans was very good. They committed way back then to the first AS400,

which is now obsolete technology. So really, I found good ideas and put them

in place. I would communicate to the team and then run around like a madman,

ensuring that what we decided to do got done. That really was how I did it.

The other half of my role was to find the next store. I would simply keep putting

all the earnings back into the next store. Wonderful, wonderful experiences, bad

experiences too. I was this young guy starting to grow.

I’d come up against something I’d never heard of, like credit limits. They’d

say, ‘We don’t trust you,’ and I’d say, ‘What do you mean, you don’t trust me? I’m

paying.’

‘You know, it’s not that you haven’t paid your bills, it’s just that you’re growing

too fast.’

I wondered, ‘How can I grow too fast?’ I started to hit normal commercial

things that I didn’t understand. So that was my next challenge. But I thought,

‘Hang on. We’re a good group. We’re running well. We’re profitable.’

BK: We pay our bills. do the right thing–

BB: Then the business community and the banking industry were all starting to

shackle us. It really was a very frustrating time.

Brett Blundy 29

‘Don’t tell me it can’t be done. Tell me how I can do it.’

BK: So how did you get through that in terms of building the credibility of the

group and understanding how to negotiate with the banks and others?

BB: Well, I worry about answering this question because I was a bit brash back

then. I couldn’t understand. I almost didn’t take no for an answer. You know, I’d

say, ‘Don’t tell me it can’t be done. Tell me how I can do it.’ But I would have to

tell you that it was partly just being tenacious.

I’ll give you a story about the Doncaster store. A music store in the shopping

centre had done a runner – they’d just closed up overnight and gone. So I rang

up and said, ‘I want to take that store.’ They said, ‘No, we’ve got it earmarked for

somebody else.’ So I said, ‘No, you don’t understand.’ This was in the days when

in Westfield shopping centres, the centre manager also did the leasing and he

lived in the shopping centre. None of that happens now, but that’s the way it was

back then, thirty-odd years ago.

So I said, ‘I’ll be there at 7.30 am for half an hour, I’ve got to be back at

Parkmore Keysborough to open the store.’ Not thinking that somebody might

not want to get up at 7.30 am let alone meet someone at that time I said, ‘I’ll be

there.’ I think it was part excitement and enthusiasm, but sure enough, he was

there. He tried to tell me again that it wasn’t available but I said, ‘What? No, I’m

taking this store.’ And it worked.

30 Business Owners’ Wisdom

BK: that enthusiasm, that level of energy.

BB: Just not taking, ‘No’, for an answer combined with, ‘We’re going to do it.’

When I look back on that, probably in part I didn’t realise that people saw that

it was going to be OK. When they met me, they could see the dedication and

commitment. I was absolutely focused, deadly.

So we got that Doncaster store and I was working there one night when this

cocky little sixteen-year-old came in and said, ‘Have you got any jobs?’ I said,

‘Sure. What are you doing right now?’ I remember it just like it was yesterday. I put

him behind the counter and said, ‘Work here for a couple of hours. Let’s see how

you go.’ That was how we interviewed in those days. There are so many laws and

restrictions and things now, but that’s such a perfect way.

BK: like a work test.

BB: Yes. He did a good job so I said, ‘You did an excellent job – you’ve got the gift,

Daniel. You’re on.’ He was sixteen at the time and I could see that he was going to

be a great retailer. I could see he was going to be a great leader. So I said, ‘What

are you going to do?’ He said, ‘I’m going to go to university.’ I asked him why he

was going to uni and he said, ‘Oh, because my dad says I should.’ I said, ‘I reckon

you’d love to manage a store.’ He wasn’t even eighteen at that stage.

We’ve since become great friends of the whole family, but at the time, I said,