SOURCE: Business Owners Wisdom - Brett Blundy (Editable).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Entrepreneurial Journey
SUMMARY: The text describes Brett Blundy's entrepreneurial journey, from starting a small record store in Pakenham to building a successful retail conglomerate in Australia.
KEYWORDS: entrepreneurship, retail business, business growth, learning from failure, global expansion
---

20 Business Owners’ Wisdom

21

Brett Blundy

Retailer – BB Retail Capital (BBRC)

On developing a global business: ‘It’s just like when I was young

and I wanted the national business, it was because it was going

to be done. And I knew damn well that I could do what I wanted

to do – it’s just that drive that’s inside to do it.’

Brett Blundy’s story started with a small record store in Pakenham, outer

Melbourne, in 1980. His private investment company, BB Retail Capital (BBRC), is

currently one of Australia’s biggest retail groups, investing in a variety of concept

enterprises and properties. Some of the retail ventures along this colourful journey

have included Adairs, Bras N Things, Diva, Dusk, Lovisa, Sanity, HMV, Virgin and

even BridgeClimb on the Sydney Harbour Bridge.

www.bbretailcapital.com.au

22 Business Owners’ Wisdom

Interview

BRett Kelly: Brett, you’ve built an amazing business while managing to keep

a low profile. tell me, where did you grow up and how did you get started?

BRett Blundy: I’m a country boy, I grew up in South Gippsland, Victoria. My

father was a farmer – carrots, cabbages and potatoes. At the age of twenty,

I decided it would be a great idea to get into business. I didn’t really know what

business I wanted, but I liked people. A friend of mine at school had found

a couple of record stores called Disco Duck that weren’t running very well, and

essentially, we thought that would be a great business to get into. We bought

both of the stores, closed one, combined the stock and opened our very first

store in Pakenham in country Victoria.

BK: did you like records or did you just like business?

BB: To be truthful, I’d have to say my lifelong ambition since I was about twelve

was to be in business. So, first and foremost it was business. At the time, records

were really just the vehicle to achieve that.

BK: I know you went on to get more stores, how did that happen?

BB: Well, first, I’ve got to tell you the truth. That first store in Pakenham was

a disaster, financially. It didn’t work. It lost money from day one. Both my partner

and I thought we were going to work in the store but we had to go back to

work. I went back to piecework, which was basically doing any job I could find –

unloading semi-trailers of hay, bunching carrots, etc. Then we found the cheapest

person we thought we could trust to put in the store. Her name was Debbie

Dolan. She was sixteen and my partner’s next-door neighbour, so we knew her.

Really, that was the start of my journey. I just started learning. That was before

mobile phones. I was in a rural environment so I’d have to find a phone at

lunchtime. I’d ring up and say, ‘How are you going? What’s going on?’ We’d go

down in the evenings and do the bookwork, the ordering, run the business side

of it. We really learned a lot, even though we were losing money.

To this day, I still think it was the best lesson that I ever learned. It was really hard

to work to fund the store and run the business outside of hours. The hours were

crazy, but I was twenty and thought we could do it all – no risk, nothing to lose,

what the hell? The worst we could do was keep working until we’d paid off the rent.

Brett Blundy 23

I really enjoyed it. I discovered that customer service was something that was

very special if you delivered it properly. That’s the deal. We worked at making sure

we had the right product. We would do anything. I would deliver music in the

middle of the night. I would take customer orders. People began to know that

they could trust us. Debbie would take the orders and then Jeff or I would deliver

them in the evening, which was–

BK: unheard of?

BB: We didn’t know it back then, but it was a pretty special service. We were

doing it because we wanted the $12 sale so desperately. I started to understand

the right service, the right approach, the ways in which you could really endear

yourself to lots of customers. It was a country town, so it was easy. There weren’t

enough customers, but the ones you had knew you and trusted you.

Then, I did the boldest thing, but it turned out to be very successful. I figured

that we were really good at what we did and we’d learned a lot, but it was the

location that was wrong – both the town and the location of the store. I saw

a music store for sale in Parkmore, Keysborough, which was a proper shopping

centre in the suburbs of Dandenong in Victoria.

I walked into the store and there, smoking away with his silly cat was a bored

retailer. He owned the store but had just lost total interest. It was dirty, grungy,

smelly and unstocked. The guy had lost the love of what it was about. He’d lost

the love of music. He’d lost the love of serving people. He was a classic story of,

‘you’re interrupting me and I hate you all. The reason I’m failing is because you’re

all too hard on price. You don’t buy enough.’

So we bought that store. It was a big decision. We were losing money like no

tomorrow. I needed to keep working to fund the losses on the store we already

had and here I was making a decision to buy another one, leave my piecework

and work full-time in the record store. But again, I was twenty-one and didn’t

have a lot to lose. So, that’s what we did. That store was turning over $2 000

a week when we bought it, which was terrible. Six months later, we were doing