SOURCE: Business Owners Wisdom - Brett Blundy (Editable).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Retail Business Expansion
SUMMARY: Brett Blundy describes how he and his partner grew a record store from $2,000 to $15,000 in weekly revenue, eventually expanding to over 300 stores across Australia.
KEYWORDS: retail business, revenue growth, business expansion, record store, Brett Blundy
---

and work full-time in the record store. But again, I was twenty-one and didn’t

have a lot to lose. So, that’s what we did. That store was turning over $2 000

a week when we bought it, which was terrible. Six months later, we were doing

$15 000 a week. I still have that graph somewhere. I graphed it every week.

BK: What did you pay for the store?

BB: I wish I could tell you–

BK: I’m wondering how long it took to pay back?

BB: I remember back then I thought, ‘If I could make $20 000, life would be

wonderful. My own business and $20 000! I remember, once we built that store

up, in that year, I made $80 000.

24 Business Owners’ Wisdom

BK: How much was a house worth at that time?

BB: To buy a house back then, thirty-two years ago–

BK: that’s a huge achievement, earning enough to buy a house in the town

you’ve grown up in, in a couple of years.

BB: Can you imagine? I’m a country boy. I’m as excited as. But, forget the money

for the moment, we achieved that by paying attention to the customers. That’s

all I’ve ever done. It’s, ‘What do they need? What do they want? What are they

likely to want? How can I get it? How can I stay in stock?’ It was pretty simple in

principle. ‘How do I start employing a couple of people? How do I get them to

pay attention to the customers?’

In those days, it was simple. Look them in the eye, walk up to them, and say,

‘Hi!’ I had such a ball working in that store. During the day I’d work on my own

and, if I needed to go to the toilet, I had such good relationships with customers

that they would walk in and I’d say, ‘Hey! Nice to see you again. Would you mind

the store while I dash off to the toilet?’ I think about the things that I did back

then, it was–

BK: Crazy.

BB: But it was great fun. That’s the sort of rapport I had. I was working very hard,

but it didn’t feel like work. As a matter of fact, from then on, it’s never really been

work, to be honest. It’s never really been work for me. I actually enjoy most of it.

So that was the second store.

BK: did it start to pay out some of the problems in the first store or was it

supporting it?

BB: It was supporting it. It was a three-year lease that we took on that Pakenham

store and the day the lease came around–

BK: Gone?

BB: Gone. It never made a cent. To put it in perspective, back then, 7-inch singles

were $1.99. I remember ringing Debbie one night and asking, ‘How did we go

today?’ and she said, ‘We’re going well.’ The total takings for the day were $3.98.

That sticks in my mind thirty-two years later. Can you imagine that call? We were

in trouble, we weren’t making any money.

But it was true, it was a bad location. It’s laughable. Those one or two stores

eventually grew to more than three hundred stores. At our peak, we had Sanity,

we had HMV in Australia, we had the Virgin stores in Australia and, essentially,

Brett Blundy 25

more than one in three records were being bought through one of our stores.

And even twenty-five years later, we never, ever, had a store in Pakenham. And

Pakenham had grown as a town–

BK: So, it had been marked as never to be forgotten!

BB: Well, no, it wasn’t, because I wouldn’t put one in there. It was just that we

were twenty-five years ahead.

BK: there was no market even twenty-five years later?

BB: Yes. Two green guys out of school thought that you’d just open up a store

and it would work–

BK: How important is location to retail?

BB: Well, it was my very first, very early lesson – don’t put a store in a town that

can’t support it. I put the store in an arcade, which is even worse. Only about

three people walked down it every day. But it did teach us a number of good

things. Location is very important.

BK: So you’ve taken the step from that one store, you get to the next store.

your takings go from $2 000 to $15 000 primarily around service, around

interest in the customer.

BB: Back then, it was all about service, paying attention to the customer. We

certainly learned a lot more about systems and processes and structures in order

to grow, but I’ve never lost those lessons. It’s about the customer – always.

BK: What are the things that you do to know your customer better?

BB: I think there are two parts to that, particularly if we fast-forward to where we

are today. One is, you’ve got to stay close to your customer. Now, I have a huge,

deep fear that my life that’s become so–

BK: not average.

BB: Not average. I was born in the country. I’ve always enjoyed people. I enjoy

watching people. Wondering what they’re going to do, what they should do, why

they do what they do. You’ve got to stay connected with your customers. Today,

I still think it’s vitally important. Which is why I think I worry about my life, about

moving to a place where I lose touch with what is normal.

We’ve got to make sure we keep pushing that in the business, making sure

that little things are done. All the CEOs of all the brands today are required to go

26 Business Owners’ Wisdom

and do store visits on a regular, continuous basis. Part of that is to connect with

the customer, to connect with the team, to make sure that we’re seeing things

where they’re happening, customer touch points.