SOURCE: Business Owners Wisdom - Brett Blundy (Editable).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Employee Motivation and Incentives
SUMMARY: The text discusses how business owners can effectively motivate and incentivize their employees, focusing on understanding individual drivers and offering personalized rewards.
KEYWORDS: employee motivation, incentive structures, personal goals, ownership opportunities, talent development
---

Then, in terms of, ‘Why keep going?’, it’s a bit like if something should be done

better, then we’re going to do it better. I don’t know if the other guys gave you

this answer or not, but that’s what seems to matter to me.

BK: What’s come out clearly from my interviews has been that people got into

something because they loved it. And the more they did it, the better they

got at it, the more great feedback they got, they got great experiences, they

met better people, blah blah blah. So, they just keep doing it. And then, when

you say to them, ‘Well, would you ever stop doing that?’ it’s like, ‘Well, that’s

actually who I am. that’s what I like. that’s just who I am more than what I like

to do.’ And so they say, ‘I could never stop being myself.’

BB: I think, to some degree, everything you’ve just said there is exactly the way it

is. You just keep pushing yourself. You’re doing something new and that newness

is actually pretty cool, too.

BK: And you’re hanging around young people who are energetic and want to

kick goals.

BB: You see the enthusiasm of those guys. There’s a whole host of things, but

there’s so much joy in watching some of the guys that I’ve seen. Peter Bond is

a classic example. He started working for us and now he runs Russia. He’s got

equity in the Russian territory because I said to him, ‘Get off to Russia and we’ll

see whether we can make it in Russia.’ That was five and a half years ago. Now I’ve

got two hundred and fifty stores in Russia.

BK: let me ask you about that. How do you incentivise this group of people

– straight cash bonuses, equity, what’s your view?

46 Business Owners’ Wisdom

BB: What I’ve discovered is that they’re very individual, especially at the level

that you’re talking about. Everyone’s driven differently. Some people will share

the risk with you and therefore would share the reward while others just want

the salary and they’ll still do a good job. In Peter’s case, Russia’s not the most

desirable place for an Aussie to necessarily want to live and he took his wife,

Michelle, and now he’s got two children born in Russia. You’ve got to take that

into consideration.

BK: So you just have a conversation with people about what their thing is?

BB: These are very personal considerations. I often say, what do you really want

– not what you dream you want. When you ask the question, ‘What do you want

to be?’ sometimes, people will tell me things like, ‘I want your job.’ Then, when

I press them, I ask, ‘What do you want my job for?’ and they say, ‘Because I want

to be rich.’ Then I say, ‘Well, that’s not really the reason.’

BK: you can be rich through lots of things.

BB: Exactly. So, it’s intensely personal to try and find out what the real motivation,

the commitment and the real drivers are. In Peter’s case, he was looking to be

involved, he wanted to be an owner, he wanted opportunity. He’s a fabulous

talent and was willing and able to stand on his own in Russia.

BK: no Russian language?

BB: That’s right. And to me, that deserves everything and more than he has

earned. It’s also been the fact that it’s a journey for him as it has been for Diva

and BBRC. But in a part sense, whatever Peter has, which is terrific, it’s probably

not enough because he’s done everything that we would have hoped and more.

Then, other people have different drivers. I am a big fan of giving the leadership

equity in the business, skin in the game. That’s a hallmark.

BK: letting them buy in.

BB: Buy in. That’s a hallmark of all the CEOs. So, real skin in the game that they

have bought into. And usually it’s compelling, but they’ve still got to commit, and

they all do that to varying degrees. That’s a hallmark of the way that we operate.

That’s partly because we’re a private company so we don’t have share options

and things like that. Things aren’t as freely available. But it’s also the way that I like

to operate. It also takes quite some time for me. It’s not just about being here for

six months and you’ll get that. I’ve really got to know that intimately. It’s easy to

be staff for twelve months. It’s much harder to–

Brett Blundy 47

BK: to sustain that in the long-term. So there’s no retirement. What I was

going to ask you about next is, you’ve got your wife, some children?

BB: A couple of kids, yes, four and two.

BK: throughout the interviews, one of the big themes has been, what impact

does a business, particularly one the size and scale of yours, have on your

family life and how do you deal with it?

BB: I’m yet to face those questions, Brett, because they are only young and I’m

just starting to experience that. I do find that I have to set time aside. But again,

freedom allows me to do that.

Take last weekend. We’ve got a possum that’s pooing on our steps so my

four-year-old said, ‘Why don’t we build a possum trap?’ I thought it would take

one Sunday, but we’re only halfway through. But those are the things that I’m

going to have to start to think about. I had quite a lot of fun building the possum

trap that I never thought I would. We went down to Bunnings and figured it out

and the damn possum trap’s cost me $600. We could have bought it on eBay and

it would have worked better but we’ll end up catching the possum then we’ll let