SOURCE: Business Owners Wisdom - Brett Blundy (Editable).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Retail Management
SUMMARY: The passage discusses how a successful business owner scaled his retail operations, including leveraging data analytics and gaining hands-on experience in his competitors' stores.
KEYWORDS: retail expansion, data-driven decision making, entrepreneurship, hands-on experience
---

26 Business Owners’ Wisdom

and do store visits on a regular, continuous basis. Part of that is to connect with

the customer, to connect with the team, to make sure that we’re seeing things

where they’re happening, customer touch points.

More and more today, though, it is becoming data-driven. You can actually

get a lot of indications when you’ve got hundreds of stores, as we do. There’s a

lot of data that gives you trends, gives you directions, what’s happening here, why

that is selling, why that isn’t selling. The product teams as well as the operations

teams have to pay attention to that. That’s important, and they do.

There is also a part of me still today that enjoys creating new businesses. That’s

just, in a bigger sense, in the same vein as creating new product. I like to create

new businesses. You know, what are people going to want, what’s happening

out there that’s not being delivered that people would want? Some people call

that entrepreneurship. I just call it – I’m a retailer. At the end of the day, business is

mostly about meeting a need. When that need shifts, you’ve got to shift with it.

And that’s really what’s happened.

‘I like to create new businesses. You know, what are people going

to want, what’s happening out there that’s not being delivered

that people would want?’

BK: How did you build up from two stores to three hundred?

BB: Well, that is a very good question. I got to the fifth store and I was asking

myself the same question. I was one stressed-out twenty-four-year-old. I shouldn’t

admit that, but I was. I had no formal training in any of this and, all of a sudden,

I was trying to figure out how to pay people and how to make sure that I was

paying taxes and doing the right thing.

There were a couple of things that I did. I remember the most scary thing

involved my good friend, Craig Kimberley, now of Just Group, or Just Jeans back

then. He was the first guy to really nail the specialist experience. He had about

sixty stores and back then, he was just–

BK: the dude!

BB: He was the king. So I did probably one of the smartest things I’ve done, as it

turns out. I was flat out running my small little group but I went and got a job at

Just Jeans on Thursday nights and Saturday mornings. Back then the stores closed

at 1 o’clock on a Saturday, outrageous as that is. So I worked as a casual employee

in the Just Jeans store in Doncaster. I got the job specifically to figure out how the

Brett Blundy 27

hell Craig did what he did. How did he cope with all the problems I had. I wanted

to know how to control these guys, how to train them, how to get the culture

and the standards. Actually, I probably didn’t even know what culture was back

then. I didn’t know the word ‘culture’. I probably felt what it was, though.

I have to say – and I’ve told Craig this – I was absolutely the number one

casual that he’s ever had. I sold like there was no tomorrow. And I loved it. I loved

it even more because I didn’t have the pressure of running my own business.

I was there to see how they ran their systems, how they ran their cash registers,

how they ran their training.

I even snuck into a store managers’ meeting, which frightened the hell out of

me. I was a good, honest, country boy and I was sweating. I sat next to someone

and I told them, ‘I’m from the Wangaratta store,’ you know, hoping like hell. I had

my eye on the door in case I had to bolt. I felt like a criminal, like I was doing

something awful.

But I sat in one of those meetings just to see how the national retail manager

ran it and how they communicated. I knew we were onto something. I knew

that I was capable and I wanted to grow my business more and more. The

opportunity sure was there for me to do that. I did that for three to four months.

It took fifteen years to tell Craig Kimberley that I had done this sort of covert–

BK: Covert operation.

BB: Yes. I was shitting myself when I told him. It was eating away at me. I saw him

at a function one night and I said, ‘I’ve got to tell you something.’

BK: What did he say when you told him?

BB: He laughed and laughed. By that time, we were starting Bras N Things and

we were a success story in our own right. Then he started to tell people, ‘I taught

Brett Blundy everything he knows and we’re great friends.’ He’s a great guy. We’re

good friends.

BK: So, you did your apprenticeship in a Just Jeans store. you’ve got five

stores. What happened then?

BB: Even though I was no good at school and I essentially failed, I’ve got a great

capacity to want to understand how things work. I’m curious. I’ve always been

curious and it doesn’t have to be about retail. It’s just, ‘Take me to a factory.’ I love

it. You know, ‘How does that work? How does that get made?’ I enjoyed that and

I’ve taught myself to take advantage of that.

That is why things like the YPO (Young Presidents’ Organization) have been so

very helpful in my life. Even today, it’s a commitment and a goal of mine to take

28 Business Owners’ Wisdom

two weeks off. I go and learn. It can be straight business conferences or the YPO

is wonderful for non-business things, but learning just the same. I still do that

today because I believe that you never know what you don’t know. You’ve got to

keep going forward.