SOURCE: Business Owners Wisdom - Brett Blundy (Editable).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Entrepreneurial Mindset
SUMMARY: The text discusses Brett Blundy's entrepreneurial journey, highlighting his early success and the confidence instilled by his upbringing.
KEYWORDS: entrepreneurship, self-confidence, family influence, early success
---

was going to uni and he said, ‘Oh, because my dad says I should.’ I said, ‘I reckon

you’d love to manage a store.’ He wasn’t even eighteen at that stage.

We’ve since become great friends of the whole family, but at the time, I said,

‘Daniel, would you ask your dad if I could come out and visit you one night?’ His

dad said yes, so there I was, aged twenty-two or twenty-three, and I’ve got all of

five shops. I said to his father, ‘Your boy’s got a great career ahead of him, he’s

going to go places.’ We drank some homemade vino and the next day, I rang up

Daniel. ‘How did I go?’ He said, ‘We’re right. Full-time. When do you want me to

start?’ He didn’t like school, he didn’t want to keep going.

Daniel ended up running the entire music group, Sanity, and retired at the

ripe old age of thirty-four with several million dollars in the float, like more than

several, a real fortune.

I had lunch with Daniel, his mum and his sisters two weekends ago in

Victoria. I ended up employing all his sisters. And he married one of our

regional managers. But you can’t retire at thirty-four so he went back to work at

thirty-six. He doesn’t work in the group anymore, but he actually retired at age

thirty-four.

That’s the sort of approach I had back then. We laugh about it now because

Daniel's father says it’s the best decision he ever made. So that gives you

a sense of the way in which whatever the issue was, I found a solution.

BK: So, where does your competitive streak come from? the drive? the

deadly focus?

Brett Blundy 31

BB: To be honest, even I don’t know the answer to that. You’re not the first person

to ask me. My father was a hardworking, determined, wonderful, wonderful

man. He died five years ago. My mother was really quite ambitious. I think it’s

a combination of both those things, probably. But it’s hard to know. I’ve got four

brothers and sisters.

BK: All different?

BB: We’re all different, but what I will tell you is that we grew up in a very loving,

close, country family. I think that was very important in giving me the confidence

and the self-esteem.

BK: So it was a get-up-early kind of family life in the country?

BB: Oh, my father would be banging pots in the kitchen at bloody 5.30 am. You

know, ‘You get out of bed, life’s for working, let’s go.’ He was a hardworking guy.

He had his own farm. It wasn’t a big business. It was himself and cheap labour

and his kids – surely the classic story.

There were a mixture of influences, but I had the confidence to do it, of

course. Everybody loved me when I was only twenty. But when I said, ‘I’m off!’

they told me, ‘Don’t do it.’ I mean, I had to defy every bit of advice that was

coming at me from people that cared about me. ‘You’re a lunatic!’ they said. I look

back and think, ‘They were pretty right.’ I had no formal training. I didn’t know

a thing about retail. There was just no reason in the world that it should’ve

worked. But here we are today.

‘We grew up in a very loving, close, country family. I think that was

very important in giving me the confidence and the self-esteem.’

BK: When you reached eight stores, you and your partner went your separate

ways. did he take those stores?

BB: Yes. I had a 50% partner. We did a deal. He bought those stores. That’s when

I really started. I thought, ‘What do I do now? I really love this retail thing.’ I was

without a doubt keen to keep going. And it really was a desperate need to keep

going. So I looked around. Really, it was probably the first time that I thought,

‘What’s the next thing? What’s going to be the next big thing? What’s not being

catered for at the moment?’

I’ll tell you a very quick story. It happened about three months before we

parted ways. We had a very fashionable store manager at the time and one night,

32 Business Owners’ Wisdom

she’s down there filing and her top’s gone, just like that. This is back in the day

when bra straps weren’t to be seen. Now, of course, they’re fashion statements.

But I looked down and she has a bra on with a strap that’s busted. It’s come apart

like spaghetti. And she’s got this full-size nappy pin holding it together.

At the end of the night, I said to her, ‘What’s with that safety pin?’ And she

said, ‘Oh, nobody ever sees it.’ And she was a fashionable girl. That was the

moment that really focused me on lingerie. I thought, that’s going to change.

Bras back then were basic beige and boring. That’s what they were. I just thought,

‘They are going to be colourful. Fabrics are going to change. People are going to

care about their lingerie the same way as they care about their shoes or–’

Then, three months later, I found myself looking for the next business

opportunity. So I went and decided that it was lingerie. I thought that would be

worth looking into. Essentially, that’s what I started. I bought a franchise store of

The Bra Shop in Victoria. I asked my sister and my girlfriend at the time to work

it, because back then it was entirely taboo for a guy to be in a store like that, so

I couldn’t work the store. Then we started slowly to see if I could stay ahead of

the trend of what lingerie was going to do. That wasn’t easy because everything

was branded. A rep came in to see you and you placed an order. It was very slow