SOURCE: Business Owners Wisdom - Brett Blundy (Editable).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Retail Business Expansion
SUMMARY: The passage discusses a successful retail business expansion strategy, highlighting the importance of consistent brand standards, disciplined controls, and active involvement in the business.
KEYWORDS: retail expansion, brand management, business discipline, active leadership, store acquisition
---

or how you’re doing it, but everyone’s talking about you. You’re clearly successful.

You’re doing something right. I’ve got six stores. Would you like to buy them?’

And I said, ‘Sure.’

So we worked out a deal on those six stores. He had about twenty or twenty-

four stores at the time, I can’t remember exactly. It doesn’t matter. So I said, ‘Bryan,

there’s only one problem. I promised you I’d never come back, but I’m going

to come back and I don’t want to have just six stores.’ Then he said, ‘I’ll cut you

another deal. You can go to any centre that we’re not in.’

I thought I would get up to a dozen stores or something, that was okay. So

we did that, we started to open a few more stores in Victoria. A year later, he said,

‘I’ve got another six for you.’ So I bought them. And then, a year later, he’s got

another. And so over time, essentially, we bought all the stores from Bryan. I can

tell you again, we never did a contract.

BK: But you did sign the leases this time?

BB: We did learn a few things. By then, I had a bit of a structure so we wrote

to people. It didn’t matter then, because by that time I had the credibility. The

landlords were all in favour of us taking over. There weren’t any issues. So, that

was essentially the Bras N Things story. Tracking back from that, somewhere

in-between all that, was Jeff, who took control of the music stores–

BK: eight at that time?

BB: About eight, but they got into trouble. I remember this number because it

was a great number. When I sold that business it was valued at a million dollars.

So, I got essentially $600 000 because I had 60% at that time. Then, three years

later, we bought it back from the bank.

BK: How much did you pay?

BB: I shouldn’t say, but it wasn’t anywhere near what I got for it, because it was

essentially a bit broken. That was another very important lesson for me. There

were a number of lessons.

BK: What were the lessons out of that? don’t have partners?

BB: That was a really important lesson. No partners makes life easier, in my view.

I’ve got to qualify that because I’ve got partners right now, but each partner

has to bring something different. In any event, even with partners, there can

Brett Blundy 35

only be one boss. So, that’s a hard and fast rule for me. One captain of one ship.

I learned that if you’re not involved in the business, it’s not good. In specialty

retail, you’ve got to have great standards and discipline, great controls. Every store

has to behave in the same way. You can’t call yourself a group if every store is

ranging something differently or serving customers in a different way or has

a different process. Otherwise, nobody knows what the hell is going on.

‘I learned that if you’re not involved in the business, it’s not good.

In specialty retail, you’ve got to have great standards and discipline,

great controls.’

BK: What the brand promise is, ultimately.

BB: Brand promise is gone. What people know from one store to the other

is gone. Systems and processes, the back end of the engine in terms of data

integrity, payment of bills, processing–

BK: And then, dropping your costs through scale, you get none of the benefit.

BB: None of that benefit. In specialist retail, you have to ensure the brand promise

because there are so many people, far and wide. We’ve got stores from as far

away as Siberia all the way down to Burnie in Tasmania. It’s about empowerment

through standards and disciplines and a culture. So, all of that has to be the same.

That means, if we’re going to set up a new event, and it’s going to happen at

3 o’clock on Tuesday, it has to happen in all stores, at the same time, delivering

the same message. Otherwise, you can’t control hundreds or thousands of stores.

Retailing is a fabulous business when it all works. It’s disaster when it doesn’t.

You learn most lessons from mistakes. I was fortunate to watch this mistake

happening so I didn’t have to pay for the lesson. I had instinctively already figured

out that systems and processes are about being very disciplined but letting

people operate within that discipline in their own way so they feel like they’re

contributing and making a difference. That was a very important lesson. The other

one was not to take on too much debt, because that was also part of the failing.

BK: So taking on debt to buy you out?

BB: Yes.

BK: Roughly how many Bras n things stores did you have when you got the

eight back?

36 Business Owners’ Wisdom

BB: I probably only had about thirty or forty at that stage.

BK: So now you’ve got two businesses to run?

BB: Two businesses and I had moved to Sydney.

BK: How did you make that happen? Was it through your mate, daniel?

BB: Yes. He was still working in music. It was called Jets.

BK: And he became the guy who ran the eight stores?

BB: Exactly. I grabbed hold of Daniel, who I had always seen as a talent and said,

‘Why is this great business that I left now broke?’ And he knew exactly the reason

why. He said, ‘Well, all the things that you had, they changed.’ And I said, ‘So, how

much money have you got?’ He said, ‘$23 000.’ I said, ‘You whack the $23 000 in.

We’ll go buy this.’ I can’t remember what percentage that equated to, but when

we floated, he had about 3%. I think he might have had 18% before that?

BK: About 18% when it started?

BB: When we started, that $23 000.