SOURCE: Business Owners Wisdom - Brett Blundy (Editable).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: The passage describes the author's experience in the lingerie retail business, including his innovative approach to introducing G-strings and expanding his franchise stores.
KEYWORDS: lingerie retail, product innovation, franchise expansion
---

I couldn’t work the store. Then we started slowly to see if I could stay ahead of

the trend of what lingerie was going to do. That wasn’t easy because everything

was branded. A rep came in to see you and you placed an order. It was very slow

and cumbersome, but it was the way it was.

This is a true story. I figured we needed to sell G-strings. I was so nervous. Back

then, you only bought G-strings if you were either a stripper, a dealer or a hooker

or something. I remember ringing up my mother and saying, ‘Can you take me

into one of these stores? Will you come with me?’ I’m a country boy. I couldn’t go

into a store like that on my own and I owned a lingerie store! Anyway, she went

with me and it was hilarious. When I think about how the world has changed …

I thought girls would really like G-strings, but I couldn’t get anyone to make

them. Leotards were big, then and I was manufacturing the G-string leotards that

the girls seemed to wear, but that was with the leggings. The bit that was cut

out in the bum was wastage. So I said to the guy, ‘You’re just throwing that out. If

I gave you a pattern, would you make me a G-string out of this stretch lycra?’

He made up fifteen of them. I’m not exaggerating, he made me up fifteen

and I took them into the Churnside store to see how they would go. I reckoned

they were going to be good, because back then the fashion was tight and pant

lines were everything – it’s not a good look. I knew that that would also appeal

from other angles as well, you know, looking good for boyfriends and so on. So

I rang up at the end of the day and said, ‘How did we go with those G-strings?’

and they said, ‘Sold out.’

BK: Cool.

BB: Gone. I was like, ‘What do you mean, sold out?’ I expected a couple to be sold

Brett Blundy 33

but they all went in the day. It didn’t take a genius to get onto that. So we started

manufacturing our own. That was very hard to do as I had one store, then I had

another and then I had three. It probably took us five or seven years before the

mainstream brands brought out a matching G-string and matching briefs. So I’m

counting it as a long part of the story, but it gives you a sense of being aware of

what’s going to happen and trying to anticipate that. Also, you’re going to break

down barriers of what exists.

BK: When you had those three stores, were they all franchise group stores?

BB: They were. Then what happened was, Bryan Luca was his name, he had about

twenty stores. He said, ‘Brett, you’re annoying me. You’re worrying me. You’re

too ambitious.’ I was starting to get a bit boisterous about what we ought to be

doing. So he said, ‘I’ve got four stores in New South Wales called Bras N Things

and they’re not going too well.’ He said, ‘Would you go up there and have a look?

If you want them, you can have them.’

So I saw them and thought, ‘These stores are fantastic but they’re not being

run well enough. We can do a better job.’ This is true, what happened next. I said,

‘Right, we’ll take them.’ He said, ‘I have three stores in Victoria and four up here in

New South Wales. He said, ‘You take my four. I’ll take your three. I’ll do it on one

condition. You never come back to Victoria.’ And that was the deal.

Now, Brett, absolute truth, we didn’t sign a contract. We didn’t even think

about the leases associated with it and we didn’t stocktake, nothing. I loaded up

the truck and moved to Sydney. We swapped the stores, all done, not a problem.

The first thing I knew of a problem was when AMP rang me up at Macquarie,

which was one of the stores we took and said, ‘We’ve noticed that cheques are

coming from somewhere else. You can’t do that.’ They’d twigged to the fact that

it was a new owner.

Centre management called me in to discuss the fact that I hadn’t signed the

lease – this was six months later. I was happy to sign the lease but they said, ‘We

don’t know who you are. We don’t trust you. You’ve got no credit history.’ All that

stuff. So I told him about Sanity and blah, blah, blah. He lectured me about the

length of the lease and said, ‘Do you know that it’s not just seventy grand a year,

it’s five years.’ I smiled at him and thought, ‘Of course, I know that, you idiot.’ But

I didn’t say that, of course. He was trying to stomp his ground. I listened, of

course, but to cut a long story short, all that finished and we left Victoria alone.

We then started in South Australia then Queensland.

BK: you’ve done the whole country at this point but you haven’t touched

Victoria. What happened with Victoria? How many stores did you have before

you went back to Bryan in Victoria?

34 Business Owners’ Wisdom

BB: We would have had about fifty or sixty stores when Bryan rang me up, we

would speak from time to time. We even continued to buy some things together,

so there was a healthy relationship. He said, ‘Brett, I don’t know what you’re doing

or how you’re doing it, but everyone’s talking about you. You’re clearly successful.

You’re doing something right. I’ve got six stores. Would you like to buy them?’

And I said, ‘Sure.’

So we worked out a deal on those six stores. He had about twenty or twenty-