SOURCE: C0108A-PDF-ENG.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.01 HFT - Communication
TOPIC: Organizational Culture
SUMMARY: The article discusses how an organization's culture can be effectively communicated through its language, activities, and rewards to create a shared vision and guide employee behavior.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, communication, leadership, vision, rewards
---

Harvard M anagement

Communication Letter

A NEWSLETTER FROM HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL PUBLISHING TOOLS,TECHNIQUES,AND IDEAS FOR THE ARTICULATE EXECUTIVE

Article Reprint No.C0108A

Culture as Communication

by Stever Robbins

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Harvard M anagement

Communication Letter

A NEWSLETTER FROM HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL PUBLISHING TOOLS,TECHNIQUES,AND IDEAS FOR THE ARTICULATE EXECUTIVE

Harvard Management Communication Letter Harvard Management Communication Letter

Subscriptions Subscription Service Center

P.O. Box 257

Shrub Oak, NY10588-0257

Phone:U.S. and Canada (800) 668-6705

Outside U.S. and Canada (617) 783-7474

Fax: (914) 962-1338

Web: www.hbsp.harvard.edu/hmcl

American Express, MasterCard, Visa accepted.

Billing available.

Harvard Management Communication Letter Please inquire about our custom service and quantity

Custom Reprints discounts. We will print your company’s logo on the

cover of reprints or collections in black and white or

two-color. The process is easy, cost effective, and quick.

Phone: (617) 783-7626 or Fax: (617) 783-7658

Permissions For permission to copy or republish please write or call:

Permissions Department

Harvard Business School Publishing

60 Harvard Way

Boston, MA02163

Phone: (617) 783-7587

For a print or electronic catalog of our Harvard Business School Publishing

publications,please contact us: Customer Service

60 Harvard Way

Boston, MA02163

Phone:U.S. and Canada (800) 668-6705

Outside U.S. and Canada (617) 783-7474

Fax: (617) 783-7555

Web: www.hbsp.harvard.edu/hmcl

HARVARD MANAGEMENT UPDATE • HARVARD MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATION LETTER • BALANCED SCORECARD REPORT

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

HARVARD BUScINusEtSoSm eRrEsVerIEviWce@• HhaBrSv aCrdAbSuEsSin e• sHs.BoSrg P oRr E8S00S- 9• 8H8B-0S8 8V6ID foEr OadSd AitiNonDa lI cNoTpEieRsA.CTIVE MEDIA

Culture as Communication dance was voluntary, the group was

motivated and enthusiastic. The brain-

storming sessions resulted in quicker,

You know how your company ought to work. more decisive movement toward new

opportunities. And when members of

How do you make your vision a reality?

the company wanted to know what inno-

vation meant, they could look to the

group’s actions for guidance.

M ost managers are familiar with the Key cultural words like “diversity”

language and activities of envi- come to mean very different things in Rewards Must Reinforce Culture

sioning a business, setting a strategy, these different contexts. It pays to be Leading by example is crucial, but it

establishing goals, and figuring out how explicit about what these loaded cul- won’t work without support from the

to meet those goals with a series of tural terms mean in your company. reward system. Your rewards must align

shorter-term objectives. But all these with the communicated culture. Espe-

efforts may succeed or fail on a much Refine your cultural goals by examin- cially in times of change, rewards can

more slippery and harder-to-quantify ing the business, asking, “What would actively undermine the very behaviors

aspect of business life: culture. Your change if our culture were even more as you want to encourage. Alarge pharma-

company’s culture determines how hard we desired it?” Then, match the lan- ceutical firm wanted to speed produc-

and happily your employees work. It guage to the desired cultural goal. tion by creating a culture that fosters

determines who gets credit for what, Make sure one reinforces the other. solution-sharing between plants.

and how excellence is rewarded. And, Some of the most important policies to Alas—year-end bonuses were based on

in the long run, it can determine your examine: why people are promoted, new ideas. Integrating “not invented

company’s life or death. how feedback is given, how mistakes here” practices took time away from

are handled, how people can—or bonus-boosting innovations, so sharing

How do you ensure that your vision of a can’t—question past decisions, and was given lip service and promptly

positive company culture is made real how current decisions are made. For ignored. Upper management consid-

in the day-to-day interactions of the example, if you’re creating a com- ered the bonus system untouchable, and

business? It becomes easier when you mand-and-control style organization, the “not invented here” syndrome con-

treat culture as communication. Make decisions might be made by a single tinued to flourish.

your culture real around you and your person with input from others. In a

workgroup, and then propagate it out- more family-like culture, decisions are By choosing your rewards carefully, the

ward. You, as a company executive, are made by group consensus. currency itself can reinforce culture. If

personally responsible for communicat- you are encouraging diversity, a stan-

Walk Your Talk

ing your culture through consistent dardized dinner gift certificate won’t

action and words. Culture becomes real through our cut it. Instead, customize rewards to

actions. We know people follow actions each recipient’s unique values. If you

more than words, as any parent can tell are building a strong hierarchy, bonuses

Know What Your Culture

you. If you’re the boss, people will be linked to the hierarchy may be best—a

Means,in Terms of Action

watching you, so once you know the large office or executive parking place.

First, identify the most important behaviors you want, start living them

aspects of corporate culture for your yourself. Be especially wary of rewards that may

business. Then, ensure that those undermine your culture. When you want

desires are clearly expressed in words When you walk your talk, you demon- your company to get the most from every

and actions. strate what the words mean. Elizabeth employee by closely aligning employee

Kellison, a former online learning com- strengths with their jobs, rewarding with

For example, a culture that “promotes pany executive based in Los Angeles, promotions may destroy the very fit

diversity” is a great goal, but it only heard her CEO extolling “innovation” you’re seeking. And please, don’t give a

becomes a true culture when it turns as part of their company culture. Kelli- “best team player” award to an individual.

into action. In one Silicon Valley soft- son and a colleague turned the CEO’s

Refine Your Nonverbal