SOURCE: C0108A-PDF-ENG.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.01 HFT - Communication
TOPIC: Corporate Culture Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses how a company's culture evolves and the importance of nonverbal communication in reinforcing desired behaviors.
KEYWORDS: company culture, diversity, nonverbal communication, employee engagement, corporate values
---

becomes a true culture when it turns as part of their company culture. Kelli- “best team player” award to an individual.

into action. In one Silicon Valley soft- son and a colleague turned the CEO’s

Refine Your Nonverbal

ware company, diversity was about hir- words into action by asking what inno-

ing employees from many races and vation would look like. The answer: Communication Skills

religions. For another company, how- “Stone Soup,” a brainstorming group One of the most powerful rewards isn’t

ever, diversity was about striving for a where politics and hierarchy were left at even conscious; it’s your everyday body

mix of personality types on project the door. People from all areas of the language. People watch you for cues

teams. The culture evolves differently company attended, allowing every about how to react. When they think

depending on how it gets expressed aspect of ideas—from inception to rev- you approve, they’ll do more of what

within the company. enue—to be considered. Since atten- they’re doing. Approval, like most emo-

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

Copyright © 2001 by Harvard Business Schocouls Ptoumbleisrsheinrvgi cCeo@rphoarravtaiordnb.uAsliln reigssh.tosr rge oser r8v0e0d-.988-0886 for additional copies. 3

Culture as Communication,continued

tions, is conveyed in voice tone, facial tually, most people started suggesting, and clearly that these values were sup-

expression, and body language. Hone refining, and implementing their own ported by the entire management team.

your reactions and notice what they ideas. Dealing with them as equals, both

communicate. Smiles, frowns, abrupt verbally and nonverbally, helped him Andy and the senior executives review

dismissals, attentive inquiry—all of reinforce the attitudes and behaviors of themselves and the company against the

these tell people what is and isn’t proper initiative-taking. Passions regularly. As the Passions play

behavior. When you see someone doing out in the real world, the team refines its

something that supports your culture, Don’t Let Culture Violations Slip By thinking on how the words turn into

smile as you notice. Nod. Be attentive. Intervening when others violate cul- behavior, and what behavior should and

If appropriate, acknowledge them with ture standards can be difficult, and how shouldn’t be reinforced.

a word or two. “Great, Pat. What you the intervention is received depends on

just did for Chris is a great example of your delivery. For example, when a The company’s principal value is

how we take a cross-functional view- software project manager caught wind integrity. One associated behavior is

point.” The important thing is making of plans to meet a deadline by shipping being the “go to” person—the person

sure your message shows approval. an incomplete product, he simply whose word is enough to know a

asked the group, “Our CEO said we promise will happen, no matter what it

If you don’t know how you come across, shouldn’t sacrifice quality for ship takes. By naming the behavior, people

ask a trusted coworker for feedback. date. Does this decision reflect that?” now take pride in being known as the

One manager even videotaped himself By making it a question of behavior, “go to” person for their area of expertise.

talking about different charged topics. rather than an attack on the decision

Watching the videotape, he realized his makers, he was able to raise the issues The success of any cultural initiative

voice tone and lack of eye contact and be heard. hinges on the very first step: identifying

caused his audience to think he was how your chosen culture turns into the

insincere. With practice, he was able to Once you’ve developed control over the nuts and bolts of everyday action

relax and send the messages he intended messages you send with your body lan- through communication. Once that’s

to his audience. guage, you can intervene quite subtly. done, it becomes possible to model the

When someone violates the norms you behavior, design the reward systems,

Nonverbal communication can convey want to set, a skeptical, raised eyebrow and begin reinforcing the interactions

more than just approval or disapproval. can work wonders. you want. As others learn to live the cul-

Alarge bank’s ITmanager encouraged ture and begin to take their share of

initiative by having employees suggest Propagate the Culture ownership, you may find that by start-

their own solutions to business prob- Be willing to actively enlist others in ing with yourself and working outward,

lems. At first, they were silent for fear of growing your culture. Andy Slavitt, you can indeed change your world. ❑

seeming stupid before a highly edu- CEO of HealthAllies, a provider of dis-

cated boss. Realizing this, he schooled count health benefits headquartered in —Stever Robbinsis president of

himself to listen thoughtfully, with a Glendale, Calif., laid out his company VentureCoach, Inc., a leadership

serious, inquiring demeanor, even when culture as a statement of “Company and executive coaching firm in

he knew their ideas were flawed. When Passions.” Andy didn’t unveil the pas- Cambridge, Mass. He can be

they felt taken seriously, his employees sions alone, however. Every senior reached at hmcl@hbsp.harvard.edu

became willing to tackle larger projects manager introduced a different clause,

knowing he would support them. Even- giving them a chance to convey loudly

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

4 customerservice@harvardbusinesHs.AorRgV oAr R80D0 -9M8A8-N08A8G6 EfoMr aEdNditTio nCaOl cMopMieUs.NICATION LETTER AUGUST 2001