SOURCE: C0305A-PDF-ENG.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.01 HFT - Communication
TOPIC: Communication Strategies
SUMMARY: The text discusses the emotional channel of communication and the power of symbols in leadership and branding.
KEYWORDS: emotional channel, vulnerability, brand positioning, symbols, leadership communication
---

TChoisp dyoricguhmt e©n 2t 0is0 a3u bthyo Hriazrevda frodr Buussei noenslys Sbcyh Joaoslo Pnu Mblaishheinndgr aCno r(pjaosroantmioanh.eAnlld rriagnh@ts gremsaeirlv.ceodm.). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact 3

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Three Dimensions of Communication,continued

meeting with 100 key executives by sonal stories tell followers what the where anything could go,”says Steve

apologizing for his narrow, bottom- leader feels and why they feel that Koonin, the network’s executive vice

line-only focus. “I told them I was not way.” president and general manager.

happy, and that I had a pretty good

sense I was making quite a few of The second component of the emo- Launched in 1988 to capitalize on Ted

them unhappy,” he says. “I said I tional channel is connecting with con- Turner’s purchase of the MGM/UA

wanted to spend more time looking at stituents’emotions. “Imagine a CEO film library, TNT had gained a solid

ways to add value to lives, where to standing up and saying, ‘Our goal is audience by delivering a varied mix of

add value to the customer experience, 32% increased profits for next year,’” programming. The problem was that

and to act more like a true servant says Clarke. And he gives the strate- by 2000,over 200 competing channels

leader than a manager.” gies to get there. Some people in the had emerged, and TNT, which didn’t

audience are excited,some are angry, stand for any one entertainment seg-

Browne tapped into what Clarke and and at least a few are frightened. If a ment,had a tough time differentiating

Crossland define as the emotional leader can speak to those emotional itself with viewers.

channel of the leader’s voice. There threads in ways that show that he

are two components to this channel. understands and genuinely cares,then Koonin, a senior marketing executive

The first,the communicator’s ability to this wall that is so easily built up at Coca-Cola, was hired to create the

genuinely and appropriately share his between constituents and leaders network’s first-ever strategic brand

emotions, is one that many business starts to crumble,he says. positioning. With his help,the network

leaders find uncomfortable. “It was decided that TNT would become the

Leverage the power of symbols

frightening,” says Browne, “because channel to turn to for drama.

the picture I had of a CEO is that there Symbols are powerful because they

was not a whole lot of vulnerability. fuse emotion and logic into a sort But before he could sell the “We

And when you start sharing dreams of communications shortcut that Know Drama” brand to viewers and

and fears and talking about things at an employees see and instantly under- advertisers, Koonin needed to sell it

emotional level you are risking vulner- stand. Take the case of Turner Net- internally. For a brand to be success-

ability. But it’s worth it.” work Television (TNT). ful,he says,employees have to live it.

“We had to do more than just say this

Storytelling is an important tool for “For twelve years,TNT had not been is what we are now and put a logo on a

leaders who want to connect on an branded. It had been what is called a board. Because if you don’t live it and

emotional level, Clarke says. “Per- ‘general entertainment network’ you don’t believe it,you won’t be it.”

For instance, TNT’s internal version

of television’s Emmy Awards, the

How to Mix Your Messages for Maximum Impact

Annual Drammy Awards, are now a

Make a story around the numbers. Make sure each piece of data fleshes out fixture at the network. The first Most

the story and supports a conclusion. Dramatic Meeting Award went to a

pregnant vice president whose water

Use metaphors and analogies. A gigabyte can be described as the size of broke in a staff meeting.

one thousand novels; an acre is about the same size as a football field.

In an eye-opening symbol of manage-

Display data visually, but don’t get carried away. Go easy on color and

ment’s commitment to the new brand

other glitzy effects, include titles that make the point clear, and keep the

that made a huge impact among

display simple enough to be understood by a high school student.

employees,Koonin approved the can-

Put facts in context. The fact that the power of a computer chip roughly cellation of the top-rated program in

doubles every 18 months is not very informative to a listener who doesn’t all of basic cable,TNT’s WCW Mon-

understand the implications and benefits of a more powerful chip. day Nitro, because professional

wrestling did not fit the new brand.

Want to add symbols to your communication, but don’t know where to

start? “Invite an advertising person and a marketing person to lunch and tell The results of TNT’s branding initia-

them what you are trying to communicate and brainstorm with them,”sug- tive were dramatic. The repro-

gests Clarke. “That is a lot of what they do all day.” grammed network was rolled out to

the public in June 2001. By the end of

4This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendHraAnR@VgAmRaiDl.c oMmA). NCAopGyiEnMg oEr NpoTs tCinOg Mis ManU inNfriInCgAemTIeOntN of LcoEpTyTrigEhRt. PMleAasYe 2co0n0ta3ct

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Three Dimensions of Communication,continued

the year and again in 2002,TNT was

ranked first among basic cable chan-

nels in delivery of adults,aged 18–49

and 25–54,in prime time.

“There are a thousand ways to com-

municate symbolically,” adds Clarke.

“There are ceremonies and awards

and logos. There are drawings and

designs and mementos. Metaphors

can be very powerful symbols. Songs

and poems and jokes and quotes,all of

these things can be very good sym-

bolic communication.” ❑

Williamsburg,Va.–based business writer

Theodore Kinnihas authored or ghostwritten

seven books.He can be reached at

hmcl@hbsp.harvard.edu

THhiAs dRoVcAumReDn t Mis AauNthAoGrizEeMd EfoNr uTs eC oOnMly bMy UJaNsoICn AMTaIhOenNd raLnE (TjaTsEonRmMahAenYd r2an0@0g3mail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact 5

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.