SOURCE: C0305A-PDF-ENG.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.01 HFT - Communication
TOPIC: Leadership Communication
SUMMARY: The article discusses how effective leaders use three communication channels - factual, emotional, and personal - to ensure their messages are heard and understood.
KEYWORDS: leadership communication, multi-channel communication, effective messaging, data interpretation, emotional appeal
---

Harvard M anagement

Communication Letter

A NEWSLETTER FROM HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL PUBLISHING TOOLS,TECHNIQUES,AND IDEAS FOR THE ARTICULATE EXECUTIVE

Article Reprint No.C0305A

Is One-Dimensional

Communication Limiting

Your Leadership?

by Theodore Kinni

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Harvard M anagement

Communication Letter

A NEWSLETTER FROM HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL PUBLISHING TOOLS,TECHNIQUES,AND IDEAS FOR THE ARTICULATE EXECUTIVE

Harvard Management Communication Letter Harvard Management Communication Letter

Subscriptions Subscription Service Center

P.O. Box 257

Shrub Oak,NY 10588-0257

Phone:U.S. and Canada,(800) 668-6705

Outside the U.S. and Canada,(617) 783-7474

Fax: (914) 962-1338

Web: http://hmcl.harvardbusinessonline.org

American Express,MasterCard,Visa accepted.

Billing available.

Harvard Management Communication Letter Please inquire about our custom service and quantity

Custom Reprints discounts. We will print your company’s logo on the

cover of reprints or collections in black and white or

two-color. The process is easy,cost-effective,and quick.

Phone:(617) 783-7626 or Fax:(617) 783-7658

Permissions For permission to copy or republish,please write or call:

Permissions Department

Harvard Business School Publishing

60 Harvard Way

Boston,MA02163

Phone:(617) 783-7587

For a print or electronic catalog of Harvard Business School Publishing

HBSP publications,please contact us: Customer Service

60 Harvard Way

Boston,MA 02163

Phone:U.S. and Canada,(800) 668-6705

Outside the U.S. and Canada,(617) 783-7474

Fax: (617) 783-7555

Web: www.harvardbusinessonline.org

HARVARD MANAGEMENT UPDATE • HARVARD MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATION LETTER • BALANCED SCORECARD REPORT

This document is authorizHeAdR foVrA uRsDe oBnUlyS IbNy EJSaSso RnE MVaIEhWend• rHanB (Sja CsoAnSmEaSh e• nHdBraSn @PRgEmSaSil .•c oHmB)S. C VoIpDyEinOg So rA pNosDti nIgN TisE aRnA inCfTrinIVgEem MeEntD oIfA copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Is One-Dimensional cally increases the chance of the com-

munication getting through.”

Communication Limiting

Here are some ways you can maxi-

mize the power of your communica-

Your Leadership? tions by ensuring that you use all three

channels.

Communicating across one channel isn’t good Don’t recite the facts—

interpret them

enough.Effective leaders use three channels to

“In business, we worship at the altar

make sure their messages get through.

of data,” says Crossland. But the fac-

tual channel “is not about data; it’s

BY THEODORE KINNI

about interpretation.”

T he head of the hospital called Leader’s Voice: How Your Communi- This highlights a common communi-

the meeting. He wanted all cation Can Inspire Action and Get cation disconnect:Managers recite the

employees to understand that the Results! (SelectBooks,2002). data instead of interpreting it. “People

organization had to find new revenue don’t want a recitation,” Crossland

to survive. Throughout his talk, the Clarke and coauthor Ron Crossland says. “What they want to know is,

administrator cited an impressive studied hundreds of leadership mes- What sense do you make out of this

array of numbers to prove that growth sages in various media to rank the best data? What is the conclusion? Do you

was essential. But later,as employees practices in corporate communica- have a logical flow in your thought

filed out of the room,one of the nurses tion. “When your intent is to move process? And can we see that?”

was heard to mutter,“Yeah,well,can- people to action, to help them under-

Use emotion to amplify

cer grows,too.” stand and deepen their appreciation

communication

and gain more insight and more pas-

What did that leader do wrong? He sion about their work,you have got to “I was a numbers-only guy,” says

had marshaled reams of data; he had have all three: Facts, emotion, and Dave Browne,CEO of Family Christ-

his facts cold. symbols,”says Crossland,vice chair- ian Stores,a 325-store religious prod-

man of tompeterscompany! ucts retailer (Grand Rapids, Mich.).

But in his focus on the factual, he “Absolutely. My background initially

neglected the other two channels of This is not to say that all channels was ‘Let the facts drive decisions.’”

leadership communication—the emo- have to be used in equal measure. For

tional and the symbolic. If you want to one thing,there’s overlap between the The numbers had served Browne

lead people,you have to communicate emotional and symbolic channels, well. At age 30, he became CEO at

via all three channels, since people because symbols are shorthand ways LensCrafters,a growing optical retail

receive messages in different ways. of conveying both emotion and mean- chain founded in 1983 on the concept

Too many people are one-dimensional ing. And for another, facts—particu- of one-stop,one-hour eyeglasses. And

communicators—and don’t realize larly financial data that may have been that was when Browne realized the

they aren’t getting their messages hidden from employees before—have facts were standing in his way.

across. enormous power.

“On their own, facts are capable of

For instance, in a 2002 survey of But relying on facts alone,despite their delivering one level of results,” he

1,104 employees around the country, power, is a doomed strategy. When a says. “But they are also detrimental in

86% of the respondents said that their leader communicates via only one terms of holding you back from a

bosses thought they were great com- channel,the receiver is forced to make higher level of results.” To lead the

municators. But only 17% said their sense of the information by filling in company to those higher levels, the

bosses actually communicated effec- the blanks on his own—and the mean- young CEO needed to “communicate

tively. “We thought there was a com- ing that the receiver creates is often not on a much higher plane, emotionally

munications gap,but it turned out we what the communicator intended. The and with vision,”he says.

were totally wrong. It’s not a gap; it’s lesson,says Clarke,is that “adding the

a chasm,” says Boyd Clarke, who other two channels in the appropriate After he recognized his problem,

includes the survey in his book The ways at the appropriate times dramati- Browne decided to start an offsite

TChoisp dyoricguhmt e©n 2t 0is0 a3u bthyo Hriazrevda frodr Buussei noenslys Sbcyh Joaoslo Pnu Mblaishheinndgr aCno r(pjaosroantmioanh.eAnlld rriagnh@ts gremsaeirlv.ceodm.). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact 3

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Three Dimensions of Communication,continued