SOURCE: Candour Chapter - Winning by Jack Welch.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture
TOPIC: Candor in Business
SUMMARY: Candor is important in business, but often avoided due to the fear of creating conflict, despite the fact that lack of candor can ultimately erode trust and undermine the organization.
KEYWORDS: candor, trust, communication, business culture, conflict avoidance
---

Talk about killing polite chitchat.

The new guest sent everyone scat-

— tering, mostly toward the bar.

CANDOR

Candor just unnerves people.

That was a lighthearted example, Eventually, you come to

of course, but when you try to pealize that people don’t

understand candor, you are really . .

Sees ae EAN ET Eee. speak their minds because

For hundreds of years, psychologists it’s simply easier not to.

and social scientists have studied

why people don’t say what they

mean, and philosophers have been reflecting on the same subject

for literally thousands of years.

A good friend of mine, Nancy Bauer, is a professor of philosophy

at Tufts University. When I ask her about candor, she tells me that

most philosophers have come to the same conclusions on this topic

as most of us laypeople do with age and experience. Eventually, you

come to realize that people don’t speak their minds because it’s sim-

ply easier not to. When you tell it like it is, you can so easily create a

mess—anger, pain, confusion, sadness, resentment. To make matters

worse, you then feel compelled to clean up that mess, which can be

awful and awkward and time-consuming. So you justify your lack of

candor on the grounds that it prevents sadness or pain in another

person, that not saying anything or telling a little white lie is the

kind, decent thing to do. But in fact, Nancy says, classic philoso-

phers like Inunanuel Kant give powerful arguments for the view

that not being candid is actually about self-interest—making your

own life easier.

Nancy tells me that Kant had another point, too. He said that

people are often strongly tempted not to be candid because they

don’t look at the big picture. They worry that when they speak

their minds and the news isn’t good, they stand a strong chance

of alienating other people. But what they don’t see is that lack of

candor is the ultimate form of alienation. “There was a huge irony in

29)

UNDERNEATIE UP ALL

this for Kant," Nancy says. "He believed that when people avoid

candor in order to curry favor with other people, they actually

destroy trust, and in that way, they ultimately erode society."

I tell Nancy the same could be said about eroding business.

FROM THEN TO NOW

The make-or-break importance of candor in U.S. business is rela-

tively new, actually. Up until the early 1980s, big companies like

GE and thousands of others operated largely without it, as did

most companies regardless of size. These companies were a prod-

uct of the military-industrial complex that grew up after World

War IU. They had virtually no global competition, and, in fact,

companies within industries were so similar to one another that

they could often seem more collegial than competitive.

Take the steel industry. Every three years or so, union workers

across several companies would demand higher pay and benefits.

The steel companies would meet those demands, passing their in-

creased costs on to the automotive industry, which would pass

their increased costs on to the consumer.

It was a nice party until the Japanese arrived at the door with

their average-quality, low-cost imported cars that within a few

years became high-quality, low-cost cars, many of them made in

nonunion U.S. factories.

But until the foreign threat spread, most American companies

had very little to do with the kind of frank debate and fast action

that characterizes a candid organization. They had little use for it.

And so countless layers of bureaucracy and old-fashioned social

codes of behavior led to a kind of enforced politeness and formal-

ity throughout most organizations. There were very few overt

confrontations about strategy or values; decisions were made

mostly behind closed doors. And when it came to appraisals, those

30

CANDOR

too were conducted with a kind of courteous remoteness. Good

performers were praised, but because companies were so finan-

cially strong, poor performers could be warehoused in a far-flung

department or division until retirement.

Without candor, everyone saved face, and business lumbered

along. The status quo was accepted. Fake behavior was just a day at

the office. And people with initiative, gumption, and guts were

labeled troublesome—or worse.

You would predict, perhaps, that given all its competitive

advantages, candor would have made a grand entrance with the

Japanese. But Japan didn’t make it happen, nor did Ireland,

Mexico, India, or China, to name a few of the big hitters in the

global marketplace today. Instead, most companies have fought

global competition through more conventional means: layoffs,

drastic cost reductions, and in the best cases, with innovation.

Candor, while inching its way in, still remains a very small part

of the arsenal.

IT CAN BE DONE

Now for the really bad news. Even though candor is vital to win-

ning, it is hard and time-consuming to instill in any group, no mat-

ter what size.

Hard because you are fighting human nature and entrenched

organizational behaviors, and time-consuming, as in years and

years. At GE, it took us close to a decade to use candor as a matter

of course, and it was by no means universal after twenty.

Still it can be done. There is nothing scientific about the

process. To get candor, you reward it, praise it, and talk about it.

You make public heroes out of people who demonstrate it. Most

of all, you yourself demonstrate it in an exuberant and even exag-

gerated way—even when you're not the boss.

31

UNDERNEATEE IT ALL

Imagine yourself for a second at a

To get candor, you meeting where the subject is growth

reward it, praise it, and how to get it at an old-line divi-

and talk about it. Most

sion. Everyone is sitting around the

table, civilly talking about how hard

of all, you yourself it is to win in this particular market

demonstrate it in an or industry. They discuss the tough

exuberant and even competition. They surface the same