SOURCE: Candour Chapter - Winning by Jack Welch.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of candor in business meetings, where complacency and lack of open dialogue can hinder progress.
KEYWORDS: candor, business meetings, complacency, open dialogue, business strategy
---

and talk about it. Most

sion. Everyone is sitting around the

table, civilly talking about how hard

of all, you yourself it is to win in this particular market

demonstrate it in an or industry. They discuss the tough

exuberant and even competition. They surface the same

old reasons why they can’t grow and

exaggerated ~~ why they are actually doing well in

this environment. In fact, by the time

the meeting ends, they’ve managed

to pat themselves on the back for the “success” they've enjoyed

“under the circumstances.”

Inside your head, you’re about ready to burst, as you tell your-

self, “Here we go again. 1 know Bob and Mary across the room feel

the same way 1 do—the complacency around here is killing us.”

Outside, all three of you are playing the game. You’re nodding.

Now imagine an environment where you take responsibility

for candor. You, Bob, or Mary would ask questions like:

“Isn’t there a new product or service idea in this business

somewhere that we just haven’t thought of yet?”

“Can we jump-start this business with an acquisition?”

“This business is taking up so many resources. Why don’t we

get the hell out of it?”

What a different meeting! What a lot more fun, and how much

better for everyone.

Another situation that happens all the time is a high-growth

business with a self-satisfied crowd managing it. You know the

scene at the long-range planning meeting. The managers show up

with double-digit growth—say 15 percent—and pound out slide

after slide showing how well they are doing. Top management nods

CANDOR

their approval, but you're sitting there knowing there’s a lot more

Juice in that business. To compound matters, the people presenting

the slides are peers of yours, and there’s that age-old code hanging

in the air: if you don’t challenge mine, I won’t challenge yours.

Frankly, the only way I know of to get out of this bind—and

introduce candor—is to poke around in a nonthreatening way:

“Jeez, you're good. What a terrific job. This is the best business

we've got. Why not put more resources into it and go for more?”

“With the great team you’ve put in place, there must be ten ac-

quisitions out there for you. Have you looked globally?”

Those questions, and others like them, have the power to

change the meeting from a self-congratulatory parade to a stimu-

lating working session.

TRUTH AND CONSEQUENCES

Now, you may be thinking, I can’t raise those questions because |

don’t want to look like a jerk. I want to be a team player.

It is true that candid comments definitely freak people out at

first. In fact, the more polite or bureaucratic or formal your orga-

nization, the more your candor will scare and upset people, and,

yes, it could kill you.

That's a risk, and only you can decide if you’re willing to take it.

Needless to say, you'll have an easier time of installing candor in

your organization if you are closer to the top. But don’t blame

your boss or the CEO if your com-

pany lacks candor—open dialogue

can start anywhere. I was speaking It is true that candid

my mind when I had four employ- .

comments definitely

ees at Noryl, the smallest, newest ;

unit of a hierarchical company that freak people out al first.

had a very dim view of straight talk.

33

UNDERNEATIL PT ALL

I was too young and politically clue-

My bosses cautioned me less to notice at the time, but I was

ab out my candor. Now covered because our business was

. growing by leaps and bounds.

If we had the guts to be candid, it

and Pm telling you that didn’t feel that way at the time—we

it was my ca ndor that didn’t know enough to know what

my GE career is over,

helped iialcesif cork. candor was. It just felt natural to us

to speak openly, argue and debate,

and get things to happen fast. If we

were anything, it was crazily competitive.

Every time I got promoted, the first cycle of reviews—be it

budgets or appraisals—was often awkward and unpleasant. Most

of the new team I was managing wasn’t used to wide-open discus-

sions about everything and anything. For example, we'd be talking

about a direct report at a personnel review, and in conversation, we

would agree that the guy was really awful. His written appraisal,

however, made him look like a prince. When I challenged the

phoniness, I’d hear, “Yeah, yeah, but why would we ever put that

in writing?”

I’d explain why, making the case for candor.

By the next review, we'd already be seeing candor’s positive im-

pact with a better team in place, and with each successive cycle,

more and more people made candor’s case with me.

Still, it wasn’t like I was singing with the whole chorus.

From the day I joined GE to the day I was named CEO, twenty

years later, my bosses cautioned me about my candor. I was labeled

abrasive and consistently warned that my candor would soon get

in the way of my career.

Now my GE career is over, and I’m telling you that it was can-

dor that helped make it work. So many more people got into the

34

CANDOR

gate, so many voices, so much energy. We gave it to one another

straight, and each of us was better for it.

We've talked a lot in this chapter about one word. But it’s really

very simple—candor works because candor unclutters.

Yes, yes, everyone agrees that candor is against human nature.

So is waking up at five in the morning for the 6:10 train every day.

So is eating lunch at your desk so you won’t miss an important

meeting at one. But for the sake of your team or your organiza-

tion, you do a lot of things that aren’t easy. The good thing about