SOURCE: Candour Chapter - Winning by Jack Welch.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture
TOPIC: Workplace Culture and Communication
SUMMARY: The text discusses the lack of candor in business, which blocks smart ideas, fast action, and good people from contributing, and emphasizes the importance of honest feedback and debate.
KEYWORDS: Candor, Lack of Candor, Honest Communication, Feedback, Debate
---

Candor

THE BIGGEST DIRTY LITTLE

SECRET IN BUSINESS

[; AVE ALWAYS BEEN a huge proponent of candor. In fact,

I talked it up to GE audiences for more than twenty years.

But since retiring from GE, I have come to realize that I un-

derestimated its rarity. In fact, ] would call lack of candor the

biggest dirty little secret in business.

What a huge problem it is. Lack of candor basically blocks

smart ideas, fast action, and good people contributing all the stuff

they’ve got. It’s a killer.

When you’ve got candor—and you'll never completely get it,

mind you—everything just operates faster and better,

Now, when I say “lack of candor” here, I’m not talking about

malevolent dishonesty. I am talking about how too many peo-

ple—too often—instinctively don’t express themselves with

frankness. They don’t communicate straightforwardly or put forth

ideas looking to stimulate real debate. They just don’t open up. In-

stead they withhold comments or criticism. They keep their

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

mouths shut in order to make peo-

Lack of candor blocks ple feel better or to avoid conflict,

smart ideas, fast action, and ehey suparecst Bad aPys i

order to maintain appearances.

and good people They keep things to themselves,

contributing all the stuff hoarding information.

they’ve got. Isa killer. That’s all lack of candor, and it’s

absolutely damaging.

And yet, lack of candor perme-

ates almost every aspect of business.

In my travels over the past few years, I have heard stories from

people at hundreds of different companies who describe the com-

plete lack of candor they experience day to day, in every type of

meeting, from budget and product reviews to strategy sessions.

People talk about the bureaucracy, layers, politicking, and false po-

liteness that lack of candor spawns. They ask how they can get their

companies to be places where people put their views on the table,

talk about the world realistically, and debate ideas from every angle.

Most often, I hear that lack of candor is missing from perfor-

mance appraisals.

In fact, I hear about that so often that I always end up asking

audiences for a show of hands to the question “How many of you

have received an honest, straight-between-the-eyes feedback ses-

sion in the last year, where you came out knowing exactly what

you have to do to improve and where you stand in the organi-

zation?”

On a good day, I get 20 percent of the hands up. Most of the

time, it is closer to 10 percent.

Interestingly, when I turn the question around and ask the au-

dience how often they’ve given an honest, candid appraisal to their

people, the numbers don’t improve much.

— 26

CANDOR

Forget outside competition when your own worst enemy is

the way you communicate with one another internally!

THE CANDOR EFFECT

Let’s look at how candor leads to winning. There are three main

ways.

First and foremost, candor gets more people in the conversa-

tion, and when you get more people in the conversation, to state

the obvious, you get idea rich. By that, I mean many more ideas

get surfaced, discussed, pulled apart, and improved. Instead of

everyone shutting down, everyone opens up and learns. Any orga~

nization—or unit or team—that brings more people and their

minds into the conversation has an immediate advantage.

Second, candor generates speed. When ideas are in everyone’s

face, they can be debated rapidly, expanded and enhanced, and

acted upon. That approach—surface, debate, improve, decide—

isn’t just an advantage, it’s a necessity in a global marketplace. You

can be sure that any upstart five-person enterprise down the street

or in Shanghai or in Bangalore can move faster than you to begin

with. Candor is one way to keep up.

Third, candor cuts costs—lots—although you'll never be able

to put a precise number on it. Just think of how it eliminates

meaningless meetings and b.s. reports that confirm what everyone

already knows. Think of how candor replaces fancy PowerPoint

slides and mind-numbing presentations and boring off-site con-

claves with real conversations, whether they’re about company

strategy, a new product introduction, or someone’s performance.

27

UNDERNEATIE IT ALL

Put all of its benefits and efficiencies together and you realize

you just can’t afford not to have candor.

SO WHY NOT?

Given the advantages of candor, you have to wonder, why don’t

we have more of it?

Well, the problem starts young.

The facts are, we are socialized from childhood to soften bad

news or to make nice about awkward subjects. That is true in

every culture and in every country and in every social class. It

doesn’t make any difference if you are in Iceland or Portugal, you

don’t insult your mother’s cooking or call your best friend fat or

tell an elderly aunt that you hated her wedding gift. You just don’t.

What happened at a suburban cocktail party we attended re-

cently is classic. Over white wine and sushi rolls, one woman

standing in a cluster of five others started lamenting the horrible

stress being endured by the local elementary school’s music

teacher. Other guests chimed in, all agreeing that fourth-graders

were enough to send you to the insane asylum. Fortunately, just

before the music teacher was canonized, another guest entered the

conversation, saying, “Are you guys crazy? That teacher gets fif-

teen weeks off a year!” She pointed to the doctor standing in the

circle, who had been nodding away

in agreement. “Robert,” she said,

We are socialized from “you make life-and-death decisions

childhood to soften bad every day. Surely you don’t buy this

news or make nice about

awkward subjects.

sad story, do you?”

Talk about killing polite chitchat.

The new guest sent everyone scat-

— tering, mostly toward the bar.

CANDOR

Candor just unnerves people.

That was a lighthearted example, Eventually, you come to

of course, but when you try to pealize that people don’t

understand candor, you are really . .