SOURCE: Captain Spend-less_21 Mar 2012.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Management and Leadership
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of mentorship, communication, and managing a global business with a focus on ethical leadership and employee development.
KEYWORDS: mentorship, communication, leadership, global business, employee development
---

you are mentoring you will become a successful global business. You

want mentors and{also to be mentored. You are leaders but as your

company gets bigger you can forget how important people were to.

you on the way up. Remember being a boss is about having good

ethics and being a good person. Think about your manners, your

actions...I have a friend who owns a big Real Estate company, he

goes to long lunches, screws around, goes to the pub and guess what,

he doesn’t command respect and cant keep good people. Remember

_to the world you may be only one person but to one person you may

be the world.

- BBRC is a world retailer so ] am sure the communication issues are

huge so to be a world class retailer you folks have to be great

— _ communicators

\\ ““""- Algood communicator is a ‘we’ person not an “I” person. Tkpow its ehucr puaek

dee net an old saying but there is no “I” in the word ‘Team” (whe &- Aidt abey? More

“e ee oo There are 9 points that adorn the wall of my office. Point 3,6 & 8 are

my favorites. Not being negligent even in trifling matters really does

\Z make you think about communication...how will this message be

— | communicated and interpreted? How was my memo to the buyers

\ cana! who Wer received / interpreted? Etc... it makes you think about all your

@

>| actions. This is another aware we have at Spend-less...the ‘Buyers

~ L Choice Award’, this is an award to the store that relays via

Began Ghoen {yest email/Area Managers etc...the best buyers information eg whats

selling, whats not, fit problems, 5 pairs in first 4 hour etc.

- Be well informed, visit every retailer, study them, read everything

you can about retail, and share this information. I love visiting

supermarkets...the way the do ends, bulk stack items, their price

2 signs..,a stores best worker is the price ticket,..make them big. Shack thighs +

wel A bo BF Hoag fences Sistek tall gall ed Med dave

fic thing that helps you get understood as a communicator is being

consistent in your moods...if you are a hot head people will react but not

\ ____ hear you. Ifyou yell at employees, 15 years later they will remember the

(1 Ue yell. ANGER is only one letter short of DANGER! Get your team members

hore eA [Dongen to tell you about their worst boss, I suspect mood inconsistency will feature

' which goes hand in hand with poor communication. Consistent in mood

normally also means consistent in policy. I know a company that recently

changed incentive plans mid season. It should never happen mid course and

if it does have to be changed at the start of a new season make sure people

understand the reasoning for the change and when they say they do be aware

they don’t and give them more attention than ever to keep them positive of

the changes. yous

Continuously hunt talent in your stores, look for people with Divafin their

DNA...it is better than a person with an MBA+ emewbes <n

Predrent “oy af. an

\5 Ive said a lot but here is another statement that adorns the wall of my office

“Sam Walton quote”. ...it says it all

Seu Wallon Chuetn 1 y

[ | b \ This is the Spend-less vision, if we can be friendly all that stuff in the Sam

-gt |. Walton quote will happen...I know it sounds basic but that bloke Jack

Wetuay sudkia Shewmaker said you know “good morning, hello and thank you” are magic

. words.

ed AND I note everything I get from Brett ALWAYS has on it “It’s about the

customer, always!” My fear as a CEO is whether we are friendly/ its about

the customer always, do our stores really empower these values

4)7...smiling, putting on a happy face, doing you markdowns immediately

is all about the customer...it gets them sexually aroused... hard to beat

that...so on that arousal note tt wind up4 Because thank you is a magic

word, I sincerely thank you all for listening to me this morning.

(12 one tant theuglh te Cove yorrsnnitl.. ches net

fo yoy Hie yrs Postiastn dat dhe t iS joscll 1

rea

prT..