SOURCE: Captain Spend-less_21 Mar 2012.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The document discusses the history and strategy of Spend-less Shoes, a successful Australian shoe retailer that emphasizes cost-consciousness and a differentiated brand approach.
KEYWORDS: retail business, cost-consciousness, brand differentiation, competitive strategy, business culture
---

aon AWe| Ci} oh

bye BBRC Group Wednesday 21% March 2012 S vier prse i 6"

Why Captain Spend-less Zoi) Uni

1 ___. When we started Spend-less Shoes we couldn’t get sites, very competitive

marketplace, our competitors were Ezywalkin, Flints, Fays, Shoe Source,

“Shoe Works, Standard Shoes. Spéeds, Jensens, PB’s (are any of you old

? oun otedin enough to remember them?)...and just to ad a sobering thought that keeps

me on my toes, none of these competitors exist today. I’d heard a story that

when Brett Blundy started BNT Sat aow shoes don’t quite have the

same impact as women’s lingerie but it did get me thinkin; ig eed a point

— of difference to our competitors...we need a Pink Elephanfithartnal how

\ ae Captain Spend-less was born. Ads/Centre Court etc. Why put in the new

GA . “e148 player compared to the established players if we weren’t different and FUN!

I note Brett is still pulling these stunts with 40 Honey Birdette models

parading through Pitt Street Mall and Martin Place on Valentines Day just

gone....again FUN and different...awareness, it works. As our business has

matured we have moved from “Captain Spend-less” to “The Look for Less”

but we still acknowledge him in our business culture.

So that’s the why of Captain Spend-less, my next’ ‘why question is, why me

here today. I understand that in the past your keynote speakers at these

Universities have been the likes of Roger Corbett ex CEO of Woolworths

and current board members of Wal-Mart in USA, the worlds largest retailer

with 10,130 stores and sales of $443b, Spend-less is today a company of

154 stores so it begs the question when you have had_a board member pf they

world biggest retailer address you what are you going to learn fromme?

This is even more perplexing because many of the things I have learnt in

retail have been from copying you guys and your boss Brett Blundy wap ah

: /

- Inside Retail story — CaptainrSpend-less, jus(Teans, Lauren, Systems, SW tes

Area Managers rn, me

[ al - Those Area Managers used to tell me how cost conscious Brett was. “” he

aa In the early days of BNT these get togethers like you are having here

AVY, dat, 3 ih éucaeee’ were a bit smaller, all the Area Managers would come from interstate

He Ghd ( +) ‘and sleep on the floor at Brett’s hoy d Pena ee all that would

be in his fridge was milk andbread{ typical bloke was the

phrase they used) But what I learnt from these ex BNT’ers was gold

Hoon bs bok Sh

A) Cost conscious: Sleeping at Brett’s plaGe to save $ and we started

[Zt ___ putting signs up in our office “costs/are the enemy”...we still have

Z\———

them up in our offices today. AACS Oath. We used to have a oad

Hace Cath. competition cheapest hotélr'Dne thing about Spend-less, we might

not be the biggest (although in Australia we do sell a pair of shoes

every 2.74seconds) but we have a great cost culture and (don’t tell

any landlord this but) we are a very profitable business that operates

@

in a _yery competitive retail space... I mean oreof our competitors

almost has the same bloody name!

B) Don’t be on time be early

C) What you ignore you accept

D) What is recognized and rewarded is repeated

E) Area and Store Managers work Saturday and Sunday (the busiest

days) and have Monday off

F) They had great personalities, were fun people, had a sense of humor,

they were trustworthy. Today I tell my Area Managers we as retailers

have inventory but you as Area managers have your own personal

inventory and that a nesty, integrity and trust and you need to take

stock of that regularly to check how you are doing with that. Never

be out of stock of these qualities. These ex BNT’ers had this, they

must have because one of them (I know at least Greg Milne

remembers her) “HH” (Heather) had the trust of Brett that she used to

do his personal shopping (His clothes, pants, shirts etc) because he

would rather visit another store than personally shop and as she told

me she was probably sick of him looking like a dag!

Just want to reiterate the sense of humor. In my view it is just so important

in any leadership role.

Not everything I learnt at BNT/Sanity came from the Area Managers. In

1995 I actually met Brett in Mumbai India. We were at a conference with a

lot of speakers about people management etc... Actually my wife was with

me...the bloke you think is a good retailer, there he is, (Story...you’re the

prick pinching my staff, not my fault we just heard you speak and copied

you) Apart from meeting Brett, one of the take homes from that conference

for me was ringing the staff on their (Anniversaries story)

— From this meeting in Mumbai, Brett and I became friend because we are

“T both passionate retailers, when we get together we talk shop and over the

years we have attended many conferences on retail (Jack Shewmaker story

“here to learn more”) customer service, IT, people management, we have

visited Wal Marts head office and D/C, visited every bra, jewellery, music,

candle, coffee, shoe, manchester shop in the world and I have to tell you

there is no one better than Brett of getting information out of shop assistants

and store managers, He is magical at it, he get their sales, their best sellers,

rosters. Tells them Im from Australia don’t have stores like this, how does

this work etc.. just to give you an example I remember in San Luis Obispo

i (Sto ’) Fanny ny Wrap ers / Im sure anky Panky section

Nar efi: Es nad \¢ ey pie ee Ee

Marge t ber Thave from your | usiness is over the years I had a daughter