SOURCE: Captain Spend-less_21 Mar 2012.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Business Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses critical aspects of running a successful retail business, including cost control, staff management, and a focus on personal integrity and accountability.
KEYWORDS: cost control, staff management, business culture, retail challenges, business leadership
---

i (Sto ’) Fanny ny Wrap ers / Im sure anky Panky section

Nar efi: Es nad \¢ ey pie ee Ee

Marge t ber Thave from your | usiness is over the years I had a daughter

work at Sanity, nieces have worked at Diva and again being a passionate gigifij

retailer when we get together for family functions we talk shop... .they tel es y

me this Area manager a bitch, gets her hair done in business hours,

Nennrmarenn

unrealistic budgets, got the wrong stock, manager always stuffing up

rosters...all the stuff that staff complain about and the stuff that happens at

Spend-less too...I love hearing all this because you know when this is

happening there is upside (everything perfect no upside) and listening to the

problems enables you to reflect on your business.

hopefully they will make you think and challenge you Boo come up ‘up with some

ys

str oe Sey for your bt igapes or oF our ote eae son oad Vea

ed th pr }

So out of all this some of the things I see as critical for retail business, ded

~~ Costs: Ive te tent them but I just ig t think you can mention them

oe genough and especially to your team members / crew / associates / staff Til

oF bet you if I was to sit down with some of your store manager they wouldn’t

have any idea how much rent, wages, power have gone up in the last 12

months, They just don’t realize how costs keep going up that if you aren’t

beating LY you are going backwards and on top of this they have an

expectation that incentives are a given...incentives aren’t a given they

should be only if you are going forwards ie increasing profit/share the "

spoils, If the bank manager isn’t singing Brett then you get an incentive. ae

Have a cost culture...make the cost culture fun. Be careful of fun becomin

a party culture, party culture means costs out the window (party cultyx

_bea 2 a relentless driv drive and as you get bigger its harderAt Spend-less we have Af Lh

q store aware for the store that upholds our ‘MACS oath. It’s the Meanest Cat sien “'

l the land d and it to t h L ,

, re in the land award and it goes to the store with the best control on wages geen)

Oe wea repairs and maintenance and staff chume\< - - -

ett ‘i nity Again We already mentioned your personal " fia

inventor lonesty, integrity, trust. At Spend-less we say we have doers

we have victims. A good business is consistently weeding out the victims. -

Tell people “stop being the victim” (if they stay a victim “don’t delay their wher

next career move”). There is no doubt retailing is tough at the moment and

in my view the main driver of this is people are-nervous, personal savings

are at a 28 year high but there is always something. ..in good times its high

interest rates, the cost of petrol etc...and in your business the same stuff in

your organization (D/C problems, computers, communication, people

problems) happen in the good times just as much as they do in the tough

times but the difference is we don’t go looking for excuses in good times.

Forget the excuses in tough times the real question is are we focusing on the

basics, are we giving even better customer service (because it has to be in

tougher times) are we promoting our basics...what we became famous for?

I don’t know if you know but Spotlight have been doing it a bit tough, but

they have started to turn it around lately. They bought back an old general

managerg and he went back to what they used to do. 10 years ago...focus

@)

focus, focus on the customers and making staff feel valued and appreciated

and sales are +10%...they grew away from these basic retail

principles...unbelievable but it happens. Again at Spend-less we have an

lo award to discourage the victim personality and that is our “Never say Never’

award which recognizes perseverance like if a centre is going though

* renovations and its effecting our store we want to use this as a positive. ..tell

the customers how great the centre is going to be and were still here love not

‘isnt it terrible all these works etc’...Resilience is what we want. Another

thing on personal accountability in retail make sure your staff realize that

the good stock sells itself. A good manager that is truly accountable is the

person who can move the ‘not so good stock’., .actioning markdowns SAP,

highlighted signage (tell us MAR story / Temp markdown, 19yr

employee...have to take them off again in a week!!!) Best deals excite most

people, London Uni did a study and found that the rat simi pee Qe wer curbryaser

good bargain as it does to porn... what an opportunity!!! The thing sto teatize caccesedl

is that every person in the business makes a difference...personal pe a&

accountability is about realizing that.Jo the troops realize that their attitude, pew’ f

their smile is going to effect sales. It is our job as managers to keep

reminding and driving this because two things that kill a business are

“arrogance” and that seeps down from management and ‘when you think

_you are there’...make sure you are keeping your troops out of this zone.

ever, wo levee

My next critical point:

Communication and management

- Good leaders are good communicators and they are also

mentors...are you a mentor. Do you want people to be like you...if

you are mentoring you will become a successful global business. You

want mentors and{also to be mentored. You are leaders but as your

company gets bigger you can forget how important people were to.

you on the way up. Remember being a boss is about having good