SOURCE: Case Study_The Missing Link in Retail Operations_Ananth Raman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Merchandising and Inventory Management
SUMMARY: Increased product variety and store inventory lead to greater inaccuracy in inventory records and more misplaced SKUs, contributing to execution problems.
KEYWORDS: product variety, store inventory, inventory records, execution problems, inventory management
---

1, receiving inventory returned from stores, and shelving of inventory

existed’and were enforced.

Interestingly, merchandise received at the stores directly from the vendor

tend to have much more accurate records than those shipped from even the best

C. Gamma managers believed that the superior performance obtained on ven-

dor-direct items could be traced to two factors. First, store managers are more

careful in checking shipments received directly from vendors for accuracy, partly

to ensure that invoices are accurate. Expecting this, vendors probably are more

144 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

SThie danumant ic aitharivad far ica anhy hu IORIM STRAAIG infil Anril 2049 Canina ar anctina ie an infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

careful than DCs, who at times can be somewhat sloppy in verifying accuracy,

Furthermore, Gamma Corporation, in an attempt to save on operational com-

plexity, had issued policies whereby stores could not get credit for mis- shipped

items unless the quantity of mis-shipment exceeded a certain dollar;amount.

Such a limit did not apply to shipments received directly from vendors. This also

contributed to the increased likelihood of store managers checking vendor ship-

ments. Second, vendor-direct shipments tend to be smaller overall and often

contained fewer items. Consequently, they could be checked more easily.

Merchandising and Inventory Management

Greater variety and more store inventory lead to greater imaccuracy in

inventory records and more misplaced SKUs. Our data show conclusively (i.¢.,

with very high statistical significance) that increasing variety;leads to more exe-

cution problems. Increasing varicty results in multiple items at a store that are

very similar to each other. Similar SKUs result in process confusion at the DC

and the store. For example, it is easy for pickers, at the DC to pick one SKU

instead of the other by accident, especially, the SKUS).in addition to being simi-

lar, are located next to each other. Similarly, as in the yogurt example provides

earlier, it is easier for salespeople at th

a consumer purchases multiple SIUs.t

ing floor, when there att

associates find it extremely hard

encountered when dealing with supermarkets that rely on manual reordering at

stores. Increasingbread assortment led to associates simply forgetting to reorder

Additional inventory leads to more crowded stores, and hence, makes it

harder to ‘keep track of the number of units available. It is easy to count inven-

tory if few units‘are available per SKU but hard to do so accurately when each

any units. Moreover, additional inventory also leads to multiple loca-

ame item, which also leads to greater difficulty in counting and

ng that items are not missing from the sales floor.

Employee Turnover

At Beta Corporation, two aspects of employee turnover were associated

_with the number of items that were found in the store but not on the selling

floor.

Stores with higher turnover of floor employees had more items that

were not on the floor. This is not surprising because, at Beta, floor employees

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW = VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 148

Thie darumant ie athnrivad fre ice ants hi JOUM OTRANG ontil Amrit 9019 Canuinn ar nnotinn ie an infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

are typically responsible for re-shelving merchandise from the storage area to

the selling floor. New floor employees understandably are less familiar with thie

stores’ products and replenishment processes and probably make more errors in:

transferring items from the storage to the selling area. Moreover, ag explained

earlier, the inventory in the storage area is neither carefully monitored nor orga-

nized at Beta Corporation, as is true at many other retail stores. These stores rely

on the employee doing replenishment to know if an item, which has sold‘out on

the selling floor, is available in one of the storage areas. Newer/employees are

less likely to have this knowledge and hence could contribute to, more items

being in the storage area and not on the floor.

A second observation: stores where the store manager had either resigned

or was fired during the year prior to the store audit hada higher percentage of

misplaced items, an understandable phenomenon because a:store manager's

departure could be disruptive to various operations at the store.

Improving Retail Execution

Enlightened retailers, such as Beta ‘and Gamma, a re moving to improve

execution in n their operations. | In fact, both Beta pnd Gamma have launched

involved in the projects;

progress being made. ys in which execution can be improved:

through creating awareness of thé:problem and its impact; through counting and

inspection; and by benchmarkin formance within the retail chain to under-

stand the drivers of poonex cution and to allow poorer performers to learn from

their better performing counterparts. These potential solutions and the drivers of

poor execution, identified in the previous section are summarized in Table 1

Quite clearly;,the execution problems described here are similar to the

problems described and addressed in quality management. Not surprisingly, our

prescriptions are § milar to and share some characteristics with the solutions

identified toi improve quality in manufacturing. Similar to the observations by

Deming;.by Juran, and by Crosby, there is no single “magic bullet” or easy

j overcome the problems in retail execution. * However, execution

, just like manufacturing quality, can be improved.

Create:Awareness of the Problem and

Its lmpact on the Firm's Performance

Many employees in retail companies are unaware of the extent and mag-

itude of these execution problems in their chains, even if they are in functions

“like Merchandising and Replenishment that rely on such data. Although both

Gamma and Beta are among the relatively few retailers that actually track

inventory quantity at the SKU level and location within the store during their

146 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

Thie dacsumant ic aitharivar fac nee anky bu TALIA OTOARIC intl Anil 20419 Cranuing ar nactina ie an infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

Potential Solutions:

* Create awareness of execution | problems

and associated costs among store anid DC

+ Inspect (via audits and sampling) accuracy