SOURCE: Case Study_The Missing Link in Retail Operations_Ananth Raman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Operations and Inventory Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses significant execution problems in retail operations, particularly inaccurate inventory records and misplaced stock-keeping units (SKUs) that reduce profits and hinder the effective use of information technology.
KEYWORDS: retail operations, inventory accuracy, stock-keeping units, information technology, execution problems
---

gt

CMR204

04/01/01

Execution:

THE MISSING LINK

IN RETAIL OPERATIONS

Ananth Raman

Nicole DeHoratius

Zeynep Ton

California Management Review Reprint Series

©2001 by The Regents of the University of California

CMR, Volume 43, Number 3, Spring 2001

This document is authorized for use only by JOHN STRONG until April 2012. Copying or posting is an infringement

Execution:

THE MISSING LINK IN

RETAIL OPERATIONS

Ananth Raman

Nicole DeHoratius

Zeynep Ton

etailers have invested, and con invest, substantial amounts of

money in information techitology By some estimates,! U.S. re-

tailers now spend close to $3 billio “year on IT, mostly to track

merchandise

andoperali ns, automate transactions, and optimize

inventory levels and

ther supply chai decisions. However, operational exe-

cution—a vital complement to pla ning and automation, and a key ingredient

to exploiting these ITinyestmen fully——is woefully inadequate even at leading,

financially successful reta Di wing on substantial interaction with multiple

leading retailers (and extensive operational data from two leading retailers), we

articular execution problems—inaccurate inventory records and

eeping Units) in stores—are significant and expensive, and

atrier to the effective use of IT in retail operations. At the

died in-depth, these problems reduce profits by more than

show that tw

ntisplaced SKUs (Stod

ith the same products, similar demand profile, identical monetary

icentives, and the same corporate management and IT systems perform so dif-

erently on these measures?

onsider the following execution problems:

» Inventory Record Inaccuracy—Contrary to popular belief, most retailers

cannot, with any degree of precision, identify the number of units of a

given item available at a store, At a leading retailer that we refer to as the

The authors would like to thank managers from Beta and Gamma Corporation who were critical to

this research. We regret that we cannot name them due to the need to protect the companies’ confi-

dentiality,

136 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

Thie tanumant io sutharizad far nee anhe hy IQHA STRONG tntil Ancil 2949 Canuinn ar nneting ic an infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retal Operations

Gamma Corporation to preserve confidentiality, more than 65% of they” :

inventory records were inaccurate at the store-SKU level (i.e., “system?

inventory did not match “physical” inventory). Figure | shows’ :

togram of absolute errors (i.e., the absolute difference between system

and physical inventory levels for nearly 370,000 inventory ‘yécords).

Moreover, the absolute difference between system and physical was on

average 35% of target inventory level for each item. Gamma, we should

emphasize, is a leading publicly traded retailer with hundreds of stores

and billions of dollars in annual sales. The company scans all its sales elec-

tronically and has modern distribution centers that us information tech-

nology extensively. :

Gamma is not an isolated case; this problem is common at other retailers

as well. For example, a large, well-known apparel retailer found that

“physical” inventory levels differed from “system” inventory by over 35%

of the latter. The situation is even worse for:those items whose sales are

not scanned clectr onically. At one supermarket chain, sales of “medium

25% because other types

pe tomatoes,” which

typically c cost more ‘than a emedlan tomatoes,” were often sold as medium

tomatoes when salespeople wer

be found by consumers who Sa ached a sales associate for help, not

{as typically assumed) becatise the items were out-of-stock but rather

because they we ‘¢ misplaced in a backroom, in other storage areas, or in

the wrong aisle o ‘ition. Beta, like Gamma, is a sophisticated retailer

with hundreds of stores and billions of dollars in sales. Figure 2 depicts

Inventory record inaccuracy and misplaced SKUs can substantially

se retail profits due to lost sales and gross margins as well as additional

labor and inventory carrying costs. By our estimates, derived in conjunction

with managers from Gamma, the profit lost due to inventory record inaccuracy

mounted to 10% of current profits (roughly the profit of 100 stores) at Gamma.

imilarly, misplaced SKUs reduced profits by 25% at Beta (roughly the profit of

50 stores). Our estimates do not include the long-term adverse impact such exe-

cution problems could have on the firm’s brand image, a major concern for

senior managers at both retailers. The importance of these themes has been

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL. 43,NO.3 SPRING 200! 137

Thie dacumant ic outharicvad far nea anh: hu (OHM STRANI bentil Anril 2049 Canine ar anctina ie an infrinnarment

Execution; The Missing Link in Retail Operations

FIGURE 1. Histogram of the Absolute Value Difference Between System and Actual

Inventory Measured in Units

% of SKUs (n=369,592)

0 ) 35%

| oe) 22%

2 10%

3

4

c

2

ra 6

Fr 7

Y

3 8

3

a 9

<

10

11-50

51-100 [7] 1%

101-200

201-400

ocked out. Subsequently, a limited and careful audit on 42 items that

t eight stores revealed that 34 of the 336 store-SKU combinations

reported as “in stock” according to the company’s replenishment systems.

The impact of inventory record inaccuracy and misplaced SKUs can be

severe for retailers like Gamma and Beta that rely on computerized replenish-

ment systems for managing store inventory. At these retailers, when an out-of-

stock is reported as in stock, the item may never be reordered. What's worse,

when demand forecasts for that item are updated by the automatic replenish-

ment system, the new forecast may be so low (zero, in fact), that the retailer

decides to drop what is actually a popular item. At Gamma, one item at a store

138 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3_ SPRING 2001

Thie dacnimant ic aidtharizad far veo anke he IAUM STDANG until Anril 2949 Canina ar nncting ic an infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

FIGURE 2. Histogram for the Fraction of SKUs That Are Not Available on the Sales Floor,

From a Sample of 242 Stores

Frequency

0.2%

0.6%

1.0%

1.4%

1.8%

2.2%

2.6%

3.0%

3.4%

3.8%

4.2%

4.6%

5,0%

5.4%

5.8%

6.2%

6.6%

7.0%

74%

78%

8.2%

8.6%

9.0%

9A%

9.8%

0.2%

0.6%

1.0%

1.4%

1.8%

2.2%

2.6%

3.0%