SOURCE: Case Study_The Missing Link in Retail Operations_Ananth Raman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Operations
SUMMARY: The text discusses store processes that contribute to inventory accuracy problems, such as scanning items incorrectly and failing to enter transactions.
KEYWORDS: inventory accuracy, store processes, retail operations
---

curacy problem—it is easy to see that store processes contribute substantially to

this problem. Almost all of us, when buying multiple, identically priced items at

a supermarket, say a lemon yogurt and a plain yogurt, have watched the sales-

person scan one item (say, the lemon yogurt) twice instead of each item sepa-

rately. This apparently innocuous practice results in two discrepancies between

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL. 43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 i41

Thies Aarnimant io outharhrad far nea Anke hi WAN OTDORIG iintit Anrit 99419 Canine nr anetinn ic an infrinnomant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

FIGURE 3. Consistent Performance in Inventory Accuracy Among Stores in Two

Consecutive Years

8.00

7.00

6.00 7

5,00

4.00

Absolute Error (1999)

3.00

2.00 * 4

2.00 3.00 4.00 5.00 6.00 7.00 8.00 9,00

Absolute Error (1998)

FIGURE 4. Consistent Performance in Misplaced SKUs Among Stores in Two Consecutive Years

pe eae aE EEenenenanssaeaeeeesmnemmmmmeneesieaieiieinemmmmmel

12.00%

10.00%

8.00%

6.00%

4.00%

2.00%

0.00% + :

0.00% 2.00% 4.00% 6.00% 8.00% 10,00% 12,00%

Fraction of SKUs Not on Floor (1999)

Fraction of SKUs Not on Floor (2000)

142 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

Thie danumant ie suthneizad far niece anks hie IOUM STRARIZ rink Ansel 2N49 Canina nr nncting ie an infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

“system inventory level” and “physical inventory level.” In the above example; “

system inventory would exceed physical inventory by one unit for plain yogurt

and would be a unit short for lemon yogurt. Similarly, many of us have experi-

enced situations where, after buying a “large” garment, we returned’to the. store

to exchange the “large” for a “medium.” It is not unusual in this circumstance

for salespeople to exchange the garments without entering either transaction

(i.e., the return of one item and the sale of another). Clearly, in this case the

system would underestimate physical inventory for large and overestimate

inventory for medium garments.

Store processes also cause the “misplaced SKUs” oroblem Store sales

people are often charged with moving merchandise front the storage areas to

the sales floor based on sales of specific items. The task; though it appears to be

simple, is rendered complex by a number of factors. One, store Salespeople, who

often are very busy during high-traffic periods, find it hard to replenish mer-

chandise promptly from the storage areas. Two, midst stores do not organize the

inventory in their storage areas very well. Consequently, sales people may not

know if merchandise that has stocked out,in,the selling area is even available in

the storage areas. Moreover, computer ed information systems that track the

inventory at the stores often do not maintain separate fields to identify storage

area inventory. The fact that storage areas are.oiten dispersed over multiple loca-

tions and “SKUs not on floor” could b hese locations exacerbates the

problem. For example, at some stores, th ere are storage areas above the shelves,

in the basement, at theyback of stores ad near the loading dock, and merchan-

dise in each of these areas are nop,tracked separately.

Store design—especially the design, size, and number of backrooms and

other storage areas—canii per execution. The importance of backroom

size, for example, can be illustrated with an anecdote from Beta Corporation.

While store performance was largely consistent from one year to the next, there

were some anomalies. One store, for example, saw substantial deterioration in

performancefram 1998 to 1999. The President of Stores at Beta was not sur-

prised at all. He pointed out that, after repeated requests, he had allowed the

re to in¢erease the capacity of its backroom at the end of 1998. Not surpris-

ardentproponents of JIT? would have predicted, the backroom had

tory after the expansion than it had before and the store suffered

‘om having a larger fraction of SKUs not available on the floor than it had in

¢.past.

“However, store processes only explain part of the problem. Gamma, for

example, found that DC processes had much to do with inventory record inac-

curacy. In early 1999, Gamma tried an experiment at one of its new stores.

The company planned to open a store on a particular date and the distribution

- department was asked to stock merchandise in preparation for this opening.

Unknown to the distribution department, however, the company postponed the

opening of the store and, instead, audited every item at the store before a single

CAUFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL. 43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 143

Thie darimant ic autharizad far nea anh hu LAHM STRONG until Anrif 9049 Canina ar nnctina ie on infrinnamant

2

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

FIGURE 5. Average Store "Absolute Errors” Grouped by Distribution Center

So eal

8.00 =

7.00 |

6.00 refHHH ||

4.00 UHL THU BHABHA ETO

3.00

Absolute Error (units)

2.00

1.00

0.00

customer had ever walked

curate for 29% of thete

fa ii

inventory levels. Clearly store pvdeesses and customers 5 could not be blamed for

these errors.

The importance 6 DE,pro sses is also supported by Figure 5, which

shows the average error in inventory records at stores served by each of three

different DCs. Notice that stores served from DC 1 tend to have far smaller errors

than those served'fitom DCs 2 and 3. We suspect that differences in DC processes

explain the, différenc ybserved, even though it is possible that the differences

in performance stemmed from regional differences in store management and

labor,(because each DC served stores in a certain geographic region). Gamma

managers pointed out that, unlike the other two DCs, DC 1 had had stable man-

agement sitice its inception. Over time, the management team at DC] had estab-

lished procedures for a number of activities. For example, procedures for quality

1, receiving inventory returned from stores, and shelving of inventory

existed’and were enforced.

Interestingly, merchandise received at the stores directly from the vendor

tend to have much more accurate records than those shipped from even the best

C. Gamma managers believed that the superior performance obtained on ven-