SOURCE: Case Study_The Missing Link in Retail Operations_Ananth Raman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Operations Management
SUMMARY: The text analyzes the factors that drive misplaced SKUs (stock-keeping units) in retail stores, including inventory density, audit frequency, product variety, and distribution center.
KEYWORDS: retail operations, inventory management, misplaced SKUs, store performance, distribution management
---

the recorded itemj.the quantity sold of that item during the past year, and

‘unétion of inventory density (the quantity of inventory in a particular

ing floor space), the frequency of inventory audits at the store, the product

variety, displayed at the store, and the DC from which the store receives mer-

chandise. We control for sales differences across stores. In our final model,

inventory density and the frequency of audits are significant at the 95% level,

roduct variety is significant at the 99% level, and the impact of the DCs from

hich the store received merchandise was significant at the 99.9% level.

We estimate the drivers of misplaced SKUs at the store level. We predict

the fraction of items that are present in storage areas but not on the selling floor

as a function of “SKU density” (the number of SKUs in a particular selling floor

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL. 43,INO.3 SPRING 2001 1S]

Thie dnnumant ie aitharivad far nice anhe hy WALIKE STRARIG unit Anril 2949 Canine ar noctian ie an infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link mn Retail Operations

space), “depth” (the quantity of inventory for each SKU), backroom size, full-

time and part-time employee turnover, general manager turnover, and “train;

ing” (the number of training assistant managers at a particular store), We control

for regional differences, unemployment rate, age of the store, and the period

during which the audit was conducted. In our final model, part-time, employee

turnover is significant at the 95% level, depth is significant at the 99% Jevel, and

SKU density and general manager turnover are significant at the 99.5% level,

Notes

1. Car] Steidtmann, “The New Retail Technology,” Discount/Merchandiser( November

1999), pp. 23-24.

2. The research consortium, Consortium for Operational | Excellence i in Retailing

(COER), is directed by Professor Marshall Fisher of the Wharton School of the

University and Pennsylvania and Professor Ananth Raman of the Harvard Busi-

ness School. The research is supported by the {Wo schools and a grant from the

Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.

3. John F Kratcik, “Triumph of the Lean prodiiction System,” Sloan Management

Review, 30 (Fall 1988): 41-52.

4, W.E, Deming, Ont of the Crisis (Cam

brldge, The MIT Press, 2000); P.B. Crosby,

he Free Press, 1989).

tie erence between the recorded value of

ise bought and veceived and the value of actual

vion centers. Shrink is caused " employee thelt,

7. See Steven Nahmias, | tion and Operations Analysis (New York, NY:

Irwin/McGraw-Hill 1997).

8. Fora discussion of manufacturing quality, see David Garvin, Managing Quality

Drivers of Misplaced SKUs in Retailing,” Harvard Business School Working Paper

., (2001).

152 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

Thie danimant ie antharized far ites anh hu IOUM TRANG tnt Anrit 9949 Canuinn ar nneting ic an infrinnamant