SOURCE: Case Study_The Missing Link in Retail Operations_Ananth Raman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Operations Execution
SUMMARY: This text analyzes the drivers of and potential solutions for execution problems in retail operations, such as store and DC replenishment processes, merchandising and inventory management, and employee turnover.
KEYWORDS: retail operations, execution problems, inventory management, employee turnover, process improvement
---

Thie dacsumant ic aitharivar fac nee anky bu TALIA OTOARIC intl Anil 20419 Cranuing ar nactina ie an infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

Potential Solutions:

* Create awareness of execution | problems

and associated costs among store anid DC

+ Inspect (via audits and sampling) accuracy

of inventory,records anid. location of SKUs

+ Alter processes basthi on employee and

customer feedback/and inspection results.

TABLE I. Drivers of and Potential Solutions for Execution Problems

Driver of

Execution

Problems Examples

Store and DC * Errors in scanning at checkout

Replenishment * Items not moved from storage to shelf

rocesses at appropriate time employees.

+ Wrong item picked in DC

* Shipments from DC not verified at store in stores’

Merchandising + Greater variety in assortment leads to

and Inventory more confusion (e.g, harder to identify

«Create awareness among merchants and

inventory planners.

Management merchandise that has been sold and is Benthmark performance at different

aval ‘ e fh torage) NDC ened! ot ‘ Stores ‘to identify how merchandising and

counter clerk or pic ° i to ge inventory management affect execution

very similar items confused. performance.

+ Additional inventory leads to mote °

crowding in stores. Harder t

of ites,

Turnover . Create awareness among store and

human resource managers.

* Benchmark performance at different

stores to quantify the impact of turnover

on execution,

annual audits, many managers at each firm were surprised by the shocking evi-

dence of poor, execu io

Lack of awareness is often to blame for the inaccurate scanning of mer-

chandise,

haps r

ne caus¢ of inventory record inaccuracy. Most checkout clerks do

ye,impact of their actions on the accuracy of inventory records. Per-

roblematic in most organizations, store training and incentives moti-

focus on scanning quickly rather than accurately. POS scanners

hould n not be viewed exclusively as labor-saving devices, as has been common

in thepast, but rather as critical data gathering tools. As such, employees need

to be aware of the importance of the data collected and how inaccuracies can

ccordingly.

have repercussions throughout the organization, and they must be trained

Consistent with the claim that awareness can help us better manage these

execution problems, the accuracy of inventory records improves with the cost of

the item. That is, inventory records are more likely to be accurate for expensive

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 147

Thie dacimant io authnrizad fas nea anh: hu ION STRARNIG until Anril 9049 Canina ne nneting ie an infrinnamant

Execution The Missing Link in Reta Operations

items. This is true even after controlling for other differences among expensive

and inexpensive items. The reason for this finding is that store managers -

employees, because of their focus on controlling inventory shrink,’ pay m XC .

attention to managing inventory of expensive items. While this focus on expen- :

sive items is appropriate for managing shrink, it is inappropriate for managing

execution. By focusing their attention on expensive items, retailers run the risk

of running out of items that, though inexpensive, have high stockout Costs,

Gamma, for example, had identified a list of 250 “never out” items that though

inexpensive were those that consumers expected the stores to have in stock.

However, since many of these items were inexpensive and.also had, high annual

sales volumes, they were highly prone to inaccuracies in n inventory t records and,

as a consequence, frequent stockouts.

In addition, creating awareness of the problem is Ok endugh; awareness

of the impact of the problem is also important. AvGamma for example, quantify-

ing the lost profit due to inventory record inaccuracy was a vital step in gaining

senior management commitment. Beta, on the,other,hand, quantified the cost

associated with misplaced SKUs early in the.p ject: Having quantified these

costs, Beta managers were able to garner top-nanagement support that led to

the creation of a cross-functional team. { he problem

Creating awareness of the pr

tion can often have immediate conseque

reduced the number of SKUs tha

22%, driven largely th

‘its impact broadly in the organiza-

ring the last year alone, Beta

rein the store but not on the selling floor by

: awareness and training at the store level.

Count and Inspect:

Frequent physical audits:of stores can help in improving execution perfor-

mance. At Gamma, stores that were counted twice a year had substantially

lower errors.

Most retail stores,conduct annual physical audits or periodic “cycle

counts” whére rt of the store is counted every week or month. At most

stores, physical audits are performed to ensure “financial conformance.” Hence,

easure shrink carefully but do not track errors in inventory at the

mple, the auditors would conclude that there was no shrink if

xtra units of a particular item and was short by the same number of

cycle counts offered excellent opportunities for doing so.

. To start using their inspection procedures more effectively, many compa-

nies should make some changes to their physical audit and cycle counting

processes. The audit and count should be conducted at the item level, not at the

dollar level alone. In other words, companies should ask their auditors to exam-

ine absolute unit differences between system and physical inventory levels.

148 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

Thie daniumant ie atharivad far nea anhy hue [ALM STRANIG until Anil 9949 Canina ar nneting ie an infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retall Operations

Moreover, the absolute differences should be stored to enable the identification’

of stores and SKUs that are executing exceptionally well or poorly. If appropri-

ate, auditors should also check if the items are shelved at the right location’

within the store. Beta Corporation, for example, was aided by the fact that the

company tracked how many units of each item were available at different loca-

tions. Thus, the company tracked ow much and where the item was within the

store (e.g., whether an item was in the backroom or on the selling floor).

A variation of cycle counting to improve inventory record accuracy can