SOURCE: Case Study_The Missing Link in Retail Operations_Ananth Raman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Operations Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses execution issues in retail operations, such as inventory inaccuracies and misplaced SKUs, which can impact customer experience and demand forecasting.
KEYWORDS: retail operations, inventory accuracy, store execution, customer experience, demand forecasting
---

From a Sample of 242 Stores

Frequency

0.2%

0.6%

1.0%

1.4%

1.8%

2.2%

2.6%

3.0%

3.4%

3.8%

4.2%

4.6%

5,0%

5.4%

5.8%

6.2%

6.6%

7.0%

74%

78%

8.2%

8.6%

9.0%

9A%

9.8%

0.2%

0.6%

1.0%

1.4%

1.8%

2.2%

2.6%

3.0%

] 23

s) 23

23

] 35

J 21

Fraction of SKUs Not on Floor

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL. 43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 139

Thie danimant ic otharivad far nce anh: hiv IAUAL STRANI rintit Anril 92919 Canine me nnetina ie an infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

where the system showed 42 units in inventory was, in reality, stocked out. The”

error in data caused the system not to replenish the item and because the item

had not sold in months due to the stockout, reduced future demand forecast to:

ridiculously low levels. Similarly, with misplaced SKUs, retailers often fail to

observe consumer demand accurately, and this, in turn, causes thenz-to under-

estimate demand for items that were misplaced at the stores. io

Moreover, the successful execution of a “bricks and clicks” strategy,”

presently pursued by many retailers, requires very good store-level execution.

For example, many retailers now allow consumers to purchase items on the

Internet and return merchandise to their stores. Similarly,some retailers have

tried, and many others have considered, allowing customers to view a store’s

inventory on the web. Such a strategy allows consumers,to verify whether an

item is available at a store and even to reserve the item forfutuire purchase

without having to visit the store. However, offering such a service reliably re-

quires inventory data to be accurate and also requires that items that are avail-

able at the store can be found easily by a consumer. Imagine the impact of a

consumer verifying on the web that an item was available at a particular store

and traveling to that store only to find the item cked ‘cout because the infor-

mation on the web was inaccurate or Be iteni had been misplaced at

the store. Most retailers recognize that, th ssociated with disappointing

customers after promising produ substantial. Not surprisingly,

many have shied away from offe ng the tores’ inventory on the web for

consumers to examin:

There is, however, reasonto be optimistic; the incidence of these execu-

tion problems can be reduced. Our research shows that while execution is weak

on average at the chains: wejhave studied so far, pockets of excellence are

present (i.e., some stores per érm better than others). Consequently, operational

execution canjbe:improved quickly and dramatically if retail managers were to

create awareness ‘of the magnitude and impact of execution problems in their

supply chainand learndrom those stores that are currently executing well.

sor Execution in Retail Operations?

iscovered these execution problems by accident. A few years ago,

€ started studying retail supply chains and operations in a research consor-

? that included over 30 retailers. Our goal in this consortium was primarily

to understand how retailers do, and recommend how they should, forecast

demand and plan inventory levels and other operational variables in the supply

hain.

Our assumption in launching this research consortium was that retailers

had plenty of sales and inventory data that was “clean” and easily accessible.

Consequently, we were surprised when, early in our research, executives at a

small retailer told us about problems relating to inventory record inaccuracy.

We assumed that the problems were unique to this retailer and would not be

140 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL. 43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

“Thie dneimont ic aitharivad farce anh: he IAUB STRANI rentil Anril 919 Carving ar nating ie on infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

encountered by other retailers with more established systems. Subsequent field”

visits to other retailers however showed that execution problems were wide-__

spread. Over time, we were able to identify anecdotally the two execution pro

lems described in this article at multiple retailers in food, apparel, book, music,

and office product categories, :

Subsequently, we launched a more intensive phase of our research, based

on data obtained from physical audits conducted at the store-SKU level at Beta

and Gamma. Both were frequently identified by other retailers in our study as

having stellar operations and systems. At Beta and Gamma, physical audits are

conducted annually or semi-annually; a team of auditors,yvisits each,store and

collects data on the amount and location of various SKUs. Stores.are closed at

the time of physical audit, hence execution problems are, likely to be less preva-

lent during an audit than during regular store hours. For eachvof Beta’s 242

stores, we were able to obtain the fraction of a store’s assortment that had been

misplaced in storage areas and hence was not available in the selling area where

consumers could find and purchase them. AbGamma, we obtained “physical”

and “system” inventory levels and hence e in ihiventory records for roughly

10,000 SKUs at 37 stores. :

Our analyses revealed a numb

agers, and at least a few that were,j

stores measured on the two ex

ably, For example, aver.

year to the next. The variation’in performance among stores and the consistency

of performanée,from one year to the next is summarized in Figures 3 and 4.

Our statistical analysis (described briefly in Appendix 1) enabled us to

identify thre@{broad ‘categories of drivers: replenishment and sales processes at

stores and distribution centers (DCs), merchandising and inventory manage-

: employee turnover. The stores had identical information technology

and m@netary siicentive mechanisms and were part of the same corporate entity;

y, these factors could not explain the differences in store

Replenishment and Sales Processes at Stores and DCs

: The processes followed at stores and distribution centers understandably

affect the quality of execution in the stores. Consider the inventory record inac-

curacy problem—it is easy to see that store processes contribute substantially to

this problem. Almost all of us, when buying multiple, identically priced items at

a supermarket, say a lemon yogurt and a plain yogurt, have watched the sales-