SOURCE: Case Study_The Missing Link in Retail Operations_Ananth Raman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Operations Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses ways to improve operational execution in retail, including tracking inventory, performing zero-balance walks, and benchmarking within the retail chain.
KEYWORDS: inventory record accuracy, zero-balance walk, operational execution, retail operations, process control
---

tions. Thus, the company tracked ow much and where the item was within the

store (e.g., whether an item was in the backroom or on the selling floor).

A variation of cycle counting to improve inventory record accuracy can

be found at some retail chains. Employees at these companies perform a “Zero-

Balance Walk” every day at their stores to identify items that-are stocked out.

The company verifies system inventory levels for these,items and adjusts system

inventory levels for those items found to be inaccurate: Beta launched an initia-

tive to track misplaced SKUs in its stores. The stores were asked to verify if 100

randomly chosen SKUs were available at the right location, Such a sampling

process is much less expensive than the audit and eould be performed more

frequently than the annual audit by store employees: Such routine checks,

partly by increasing the awareness of the ppoblem, caitoften go a long way in

improving execution. \

The zero-balance walk or the sam ing process could also be the basis for

a statistical process control (“SPC”, as been recommended and used

widely in manufacturing.” Eact

could be considered a “defect”

expected defect levels.

ing and process impro

Benchmark within Your Chain

Retailers can improve ¢xecution in their stores by learning from parts

of their chains that are currently executing well. Our research shows that some

stores within a-chain execute much better, and consistently so, than other stores.

Evidence’ tk lat some stores are executing well serves as powerful evidence

to managers in retail companies that operational execution ca be managed and

improved. This evidence can be used to understand the drivers of poor execu-

can also be used to motivate the stores that are lagging in execution.

tion a

of eta and Gamma shared the results of our statistical analysis widely

ns in, their organizations. Understandably, the findings generated a lot of interest

not. only among store managers, but also managers from merchandising and

human resources whose actions were shown by our analysis to impact a store's

ability to execute. Moreover, the wide dispersion within the same chain, where

all the stores use the same information technology and have the same monetary

incentives, makes it clear that technology and incentives are not the drivers of

inter-store differences.

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL. 43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 Hg

Thie dasumant ie aitharizad far nee anh: hu IOLIM STRARNIC until Anil 2049 Carainn ae nnctinag ie on infrinnamant

Execution; The Missing Link in Retail Operations

Immediate Steps to Improving Operational Execution in Retailing

Retailers can take the following five steps to improve operational, execu

tion immediately.

As a first step, retailers should measure performance along: dimensigi’s of

operational execution that are important to their businesses. For example, retail-

ers that are interested in improving inventory record maccuracy should measure

the absolute difference between system and actual inventory levels at the SKU

level. Similarly, those that are interested in managing misplaced SKUs should

measure the fraction of their stores’ assortment that is misplacedywithin the

store. Such measures, as noted earlier, can be derived from Physicalaudits at the

stores, through sampling methods, or through cycle counting procedures.

Second, these measurements should be used to create awareness of the

problem. As noted earlier, it is valuable to be able to quantify the costs associated

with poor execution. Managers in functions like merchandising, information

technology, marketing, and human resources—whoge efforts are compromised

by poor execution or whose actions determine the,quality of execution in retail-

ing--are usually unaware of the magnitude, or, even cxistence, of execution

problems. Store and DC personnel, or other: and,are often aware of exe-

cally control hundre even thousands of stores, and can use the differences

in processes and performani¢e/at these stores to understand how execution can

be improved?

Fifth, retailers can improve performance by using operational data for

decision making, It is*teinpting for some to argue that the execution problems

reported here should logically lead us to avoid relying on POS and inventory

data for inventory and supply chain planning. There are two flaws in this argu-

execution problems when they attempted to use the data in their systems.

,, Gamma, for example, found that the performance of its automatic replenish-

“ment systems was compromised because of inaccurate inventory records, Beta

. had invested in computerized kiosks that allowed customers to find out if a cer-

tain item was available at the store. The company began to investigate customer

150 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 200!

Thice dasumant ic aitharigad far nee anki hu (AUM OTDORIG until Anrit 9049 Canuinn ar nneting ic on infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

complaints that items that the system showed as available at the store could

often not be found. Asa result, the company discovered the magnitude gt mig-

placed SKUs in its stores.

Conclusion

It is important for retailers, at a minimum, to be aware of these probléms

and the potential impact they may have on profitability. Moreover, as a Beta

executive pointed out, acknowledging the prevalence of weak execution would

make it less embarrassing for retailers to discuss these problems in/public and

thus identify solutions jointly. Execution can be managed. Our‘data show that

some stores perform better than others year after year. The drivers of these dif-

ferences yield prescriptions to improve execution. :

APPENDIX

Summary of Empirical Analysis”

Our conclusions on the drivers of inventory record i inaccuracy and mis-

ables. We use three regre

Gamma data (for invent

placed SKUs). More details of ourtechnical analysis can be found in DeHoratius

and Raman"? and in Raman and J

We estimate the dri

and at the store level. For our'record level analysis, we use logistic regression to

predict the probability of inventory record accuracy as a function of the cost of

the recorded itemj.the quantity sold of that item during the past year, and

‘unétion of inventory density (the quantity of inventory in a particular

ing floor space), the frequency of inventory audits at the store, the product