SOURCE: CEO responses_successful BIP.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.03 HFT - BIP
TOPIC: Business Planning and Improvement
SUMMARY: This text discusses the key elements of a successful business planning and improvement (BIP) process, focusing on maintaining business as usual, energizing the team, and setting strategic goals.
KEYWORDS: BIP process, team engagement, strategic goal-setting, cost optimization, business innovation
---

Darren Holland

Business As Usual: during the BIP process vs a scramble for numbers and projects getting put on hold. Best evidence is our daily huddle and simply listening to their language and “focus” for each day.

Energy Lifter: my team are inspired , energised and engaged in the process vs depleted and disillusioned. It’s a creative process vs a to do list and it should extract the best ideas from our team. Some of the best ideas from our team have come from the cap ex question of “if money was not an object what would you do to improve the centre”. I understand this many not apply to our retail businesses.

Goals Drive BIP: our goal setting and strategy is completed before the BIP process , and the BIP’s simply support our goals. In addition , we start at zero and shouldn’t focus on last years results(backward looking) , instead we focus on what is possible (forward looking). Finally , we don’t allow “provisions” we have specifics and projects for the vast majority of expenses.

To be honest this is not all occurring at BBRC Property , we are currently scrambling with a compressed timeline 8 weeks vs 16 weeks , rolling out a new automated BIP tool to eliminate manual spreadsheets and our team are not fully energised and hence why I look forward to the learnings on Tuesday.

Peter King

Three things I look for in a successful BIP process. All three are linked to revenue and EBIT growth. The 1st refers to improving our existing strategies currently being executed, building upon the AAR process. The 2nd refers to bringing fresh ideas and new thinking into the business. This does not necessarily refer to just new products. It should also include communication, promotions, clearance strategies, forecasting tools etc. The third is all about cost. How can we execute our plans for less? This is where bottom up feedback plays a real role by asking everyone who actually spends the money where are we wasting it and how can we save as a result.

I.          Ongoing improvement. Planning to improve the execution of existing strategies to drive Organic growth. How can we leverage more growth out of our existing product and promotional strategies? What can we improve upon from this and previous years trading?      e.g. Xmas ,Mother’s Day or our Click Frenzy on line activity?  Challenge the team on how much bigger event “ X “could be and what could it take to hit that higher number. It is important at this stage to strike a balance between higher targets and the ability of the business to generate this result.

II.          Innovation and newness for the business. What can we bring to the business that is new to the company? What are our competitors doing that we are not? What are other brands in the BBRC group executing that we can adapt to our business? There should be a list of potential new ideas that should cause the CEO to pause and think. Special attention needs to be paid here on the ability of the business to execute too many new ideas that may be piled onto existing ongoing activities. Best to have a July-June calendar  handy and to insert these plans as early as possible to have a sanity check. Obviously, with the CFO present, we need to balance out these competing needs for the finite amount of cash available. This is especially true at Dusk in specific months of the year leading to Xmas.

III.          Cost control/efficiency- While the direction of reducing CODB% is understood, the BIP provides an annual opportunity to review line item costs for each department with each department head. The people who actually spend the money often know where improvements can be made. Challenge the team to generate savings in all areas. Challenge automatic annual expenditure. For example, just because we spent $330,000 on Xmas catalogues every year, does not mean it should be an automatic inclusion for the same amount this year.

These three outcomes will provide the business with the best opportunity to deliver increased Revenues and EBIT.

George Wahby

What are 3 things as a CEO that you look for in a successful BIP process?

1. Firstly it starts with me articulating the vision of where we want to be as a business. For bras n things it is about looking at the drivers to deliver our goal of drive for 3.5m @$55. We can only do this by living or vision which is to "empower women to feel beautiful on the inside and out" ie making about her always. This is done via focusing on four key company priorities:

product renewal to excite our customers and achieving our optimal breadth and depth initiative.

store standards and disciplines and execution excellence with passion and pride. We are off to a great start following the conference. As we made it all about empowering the customer.

customer engagement in terms of loyalty, PR, social and rebranding.

automation of reporting to make better and faster decisions.

2. Point  one above sets the foundation for the team to have clarity and confidence to back themselves in terms of stretching themselves. We are going for a 8% comp growth and they should think about the drives that will deliver that rather than how can a justify a lower number.

3. A genuine approach by my leadership team to see what efficiencies can be introduced in their respective areas to drive better cost and/or service in terms of speed and accuracy to the customer. This will help in COBD and providing better response time for our customer both internal out external.

The final thing is to ensure that we all have a belief that we can achieve the BIP numbers before we start as that is what drives confidence and success.

Shane Fallscheer