SOURCE: Chapter 8 - Developing Retail Leaders v2.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Development and Succession Planning
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of retaining and developing future retail leaders by identifying and providing growth opportunities for potential successors.
KEYWORDS: employee development, succession planning, career paths, leadership development, talent identification
---

Developing your team

As | hope has been highlighted earlier in this book, your ability to develop

your team will be fundamental to your success.

It is essential to retain team members and build a career path for

everyone in your team, so they each feel they have a bright future within

the business. Without succession planning and career planning, you may

be in danger of losing good people, especially if they have developed a

need for growth. If your best people leave, you could be forced (out of

desperation) to promote people into roles they are either not ready for

or for which they lack the attributes needed to succeed. Alternatively, you

might need to recruit externally to fill senior roles — which can be time-

consuming and costly.

Identifying and developing future

senior leaders

Many senior retail leaders have built incredible retail careers from starting

out as casual team members. Many began with no aspirations or didn't

consider that their future career would lie in the retail industry.

To have a reliable pool of future leaders, you need to look at people in

the roles below the levels of seniority and responsibility for which you will

eventually require a suitable leadership candidate. You need to identify the

people who are suitable and begin to develop them so they will be ready

to take on a leadership role.

From the leaders within your business, who have you identified as being

likely successors for more senior roles? Depending on the size of your

business, these could be the people who have the potential to fill the roles

of area, state, national or general managers.

The diagram on the next page shows where the poo! of potential talent

needs to be found and the development needed for senior roles to be

filled by people you identify as potential leaders.

Leading Leaders in Retail: The essential guide

fomneeaseenetnncey

i National manager

ee |

i State manager Brand leader

| Area leader

How can you ensure the right people are being identified as future leaders

What are you doing to mentor those people and provide them with the.

necessary Opportunities to ensure they are ready for their next role? An

ongoing conversations being had to keep those people engaged an

motivated to grow?

Stephanie Conway said of the 2023 data discussed in Linkedin’s report o

Global Talent Trends that’. . , employees consider career-development

Opportunities to be one of the top reasons to stay at - or leave — thei

company."° Employees believe professional development to be the-

number-one way to improve company culture — so the consequences of:

neglecting development can be significant.

According to a 2019 report by the Execu|Search Group, 86% of

professionals said that they would change jobs if a new company offere

them more opportunities for professional development."

Research carried out by Better Buys indicated that employees who are

provided with professional development opportunities are 15% more

engaged and have a 34% higher rate of retention than those who don'’t.'?

Consider Deloitte’s 2021 findings that:

Organizations with a strong learning culture are 92 percent

more likely to develop novel products and processes, 52 percent

more productive, 56 percent more likely to be the first to market

with their products and services, and 17 percent more profitable

than their peers. Their engagement and retention rates are also

30-50 percent higher."°

As is raised in Chapter 9 (‘Leading area leaders’) and Chapter 6 (‘Creating

empowered leaders’), the right development and training can result in

every one of the people you lead feeling empowered in their role. Leaders,

in particular, have a high need for personal and professional growth and

will leave if that need can't be met.

Later, in Chapter 11, ‘The intergenerational workplace’ (see page 167),

it will be emphasised that opportunities for development, training, and

growth in the workplace seem to be particularly important to Gen Z people

(born about 1995-2012).

Evidently, prioritising learning and development is crucial to the business's

bottom line — but providing learning and development doesn't need to be

costly. You do, however, need to ensure that the professional development

provided is personalised. In other words, make it relevant and ensure it is

truly connected to each of your team members, rather than a mere box-

ticking exercise.

As you saw in Chapter 5, ‘Alignment with goals and plans’, there are

opportunities for on-the-job learning and growth in monthly planning

meetings and | recommend that this learning and development, as well

as a sense of ownership and belonging, be accelerated with quarterly

two-day retreats (see pages 80-81).

As was discussed in Chapter 4, ‘People: The greatest business asset’, gro

(such as that involved in personal and career development) is consider,

to be one of the six human needs espoused by American career’

business strategist Tony Robbins, Offering possibilities for growth a;

development will meet that need in your team members and leaders, .

Career development

How often do you have career discussions with each of your leaders? H

often are your leaders having career discussions with theirteam member

In many organisations, the topic of career development is often includ

as part of a yearly discussion and is linked to a performance review, | ha

heard of leaders giving performance feedback at the end of the year

people whose results have meant they will not be receiving their yea

bonus (refer to my comments on incentives in Chapter 10, ‘Reward and

recognition’, for my thoughts on this). Giving feedback once annua

doesn’t enable people to improve their performance and only leaves them

frustrated and disappointed.

Ideally, feedback on results and performance should be provided

monthly — or at least quarterly, so that everyone can improve in their role

and the opportunities for ongoing career discussions are provided.

University professor, researcher, public speaker and author Dr Brené

Brown says in her book Dare to lead. Brave work, Tough conversation.

Whole hearts,"* giving feedback to the members of your team so they can