SOURCE: Chapter 8 - Developing Retail Leaders.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Developing Retail Leaders
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of identifying and developing future senior leaders within a retail organization to ensure succession planning and career growth opportunities for employees.
KEYWORDS: succession planning, career development, talent identification, leadership pipeline, employee retention
---

As | hope has been highlighted earlier in this book, your ability to develop

your team will be fundamental to your success.

It is essential to retain team members and build a career path for

everyone in your team, so they each feel they have a bright future within

the business. Without succession planning and career planning, you may

be in danger of losing good people, especially if they have developed a

need for growth. If your best people leave, you could be forced (out of

desperation) to promote people into roles they are either not ready for

or for which they lack the attributes needed to succeed. Alternatively, you

might need to recruit externally to fill senior roles — which can be time-

consuming and costly,

ee Identifying and developing future

senior leaders

Many senior retail leaders have built incredible retail careers from starting

out as casual team members. Many began with no aspirations or didn’t

consider that their future career would lie in the retail industry.

To have a reliable pool of future leaders, you need to look at people in

the roles below the levels of seniority and responsibility for which you will

eventually require a suitable leadership candidate. You need to identify the

people who are suitable and begin to develop them so they will be ready

to take on a leadership role.

From the leaders within your business, who have you identified as being

ikely successors for more senior roles? Depending on the size of your

business, these could be the people who have the potential to fill the roles

of area, state, national or general managers.

The diagram on the next page shows where the pool of potential talent

needs to be found and the development needed for senior roles to be

filled by people you identify as potential leaders.

Leading Leaders in Retail: The essential guide

General

_ | National manager/ manager! CEQ

i State manager Brand leader 3p E

| Area leader

|

eel Store manager

?

{Assistant store manager!

Full-time team member

| Casual team

| members

necessary opportunities to ensure they are ready for their next role? Ar

ongoing conversations being had to keep those people engaged an

motivated to grow?

Online business network LinkedIn’s senior director of talent development.

Stephanie Conway said of the 2023 data discussed in LinkedIn‘s report 0

Global Talent Trends that’... employees consider career-developmen

Opportunities to be one of the top reasons to stay at — or leave — their

company.’° Employees believe professional development to be the

number-one way to improve company culture — so the consequences o

neglecting development can be significant.

According to a 2019 report by the Execu|Search Group, 86% of.

professionals said that they would change jobs if a new company offered

them more opportunities for professional development."

10 Conway, S., October 2023, ‘Trends in the labor market: Hiring around the world

continues to decline’, Global Talent Trends (Australia & New Zealand Edition): Data-

driven insights into the changing world of work, Linkedin, viewed 5 August 2024,

<https://business.linkedin.com/en-au/talent-solutions/global-talent-trends>.

11 Execu[Search, 7 January 2019, "The Employee Experience will be Critical to Business

Success in 2019, According to New Hiring Outlook Report by The Execu|Search Group‘;

PR Newswire, viewed 5 August 2024, <https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/

the-employee-experience-will-be-critical-to-business-success-in-2019-according-to-

new-hiring-outlook-report-by-the-execusearch-group-300773946.htmI>.

118

Chapter8 Developing your team

Research carried out by Better Buys indicated that employees who are

provided with professional development opportunities are 15% more

engaged and have a 34% higher rate of retention than those who don’t.”

General

manager! CEO

ssmemermretnnetec

Jational manager!

rand leader E

Consider Deloitte's 2021 findings that:

Organizations with a strong learning culture are 92 percent

more likely to develop novel products and processes, 52 percent

more productive, 56 percent more likely to be the first to market

with their products and services, and 17 percent more profitable

than their peers, Their engagement and retention rates are also

ied as future leaders? 30-50 percent higher."

‘ovide them with the

- their next role? Are

eople engaged and

As is raised in Chapter 9 (‘Leading area leaders’) and Chapter 6 (‘Creating

empowered leaders’), the right development and training can result in

every one of the people you lead feeling empowered in their role. Leaders,

in particular, have a high need for personal and professional growth and

f talent development will leave if that need can't be met.

1 LinkedIn‘s report on

career-development

at — or leave — their

lopment to be the

‘he consequences of

Later, in Chapter 11, ‘The intergenerational workplace’ (see page 167),

it will be emphasised that opportunities for development, training, and

growth in the workplace seem to be particularly important to Gen Z people

(born about 1995-2012).

_ Evidently, prioritising learning and development is crucial to the business's

bottom line — but providing learning and development doesn’t need to be

costly. You do, however, need to ensure that the professional development

provided is personalised. In other words, make it relevant and ensure it is

truly connected to each of your team members, rather than a mere box-

ticking exercise.

‘ch Group, 86% of

ew company offered

ant."

As you saw in Chapter 5, ‘Alignment with goals and plans’, there are

opportunities for on-the-job learning and growth in monthly planning

meetings and | recommend that this learning and development, as well

_ as a sense of ownership and belonging, be accelerated with quarterly

_ two-day retreats (see pages 80-81).

around the world

2aland Edition): Data-

ved 5 August 2024,

talent-trends>.

| be Critical to Business

The Execu|Search Group":

‘e.com/news-releases/

-in-2019-according-to-

946.html>.

_ 12 BetterBuys, no date, "The impact of professional development”, viewed 5 August 2024,

<https://www.betterbuys.com/Ims/professional-development-impact>.

13 Deloitte Insights, 25 January 2015, “Becoming irresistible: A new model for employee

engagement’, Deloitte Review, Issue 16, viewed 5 August 2024, <https://www2.

deloitte.com/us/en/insights/deloitte-review/issue- 1 6/employee-engagement-

strategies.html>.

Leading Leaders in Retail: The essential guide

As was discussed in Chapter 4, ‘People: The greatest business asset’, gro

(such as that involved in personal and career development) is conside,