SOURCE: Chapter 8 - Developing Retail Leaders v2.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses the key attributes and guidance needed for developing resilient, adaptable, and self-confident retail leaders who can effectively lead their teams.
KEYWORDS: leadership development, retail management, self-discipline, brand strategy, leadership skills
---

guidance?

Having resilience and seeking support and advice is crucial in a com petitive

industry. Senior leaders need to be able to adapt quickly and bring their team

with them.

Leaders need to feel good about themselves and their ability to do the job. i

This doesn’t mean they tick every box right now, but they do need to have self-

confidence and a desire to learn and grow.

(Continued from previous page.)

| BOES THE POTENTIAL LEADER:

| demonstrate strong self-discipline?

Self-discipline is crucial when setting expectations of others, leading by

| example, and establishing a consistent leadership style.

~ understand the brand's customers, marketing, and brand strategy?

The positioning of the brand needs to be understood so strategies can be set

and implemented confidently with the leadership team.

= have leadership ability? |

There is no use trying to train and develop those that don't possess natural |

leadership ability (even if they are technically very good), It is important to

identify the difference between technical skills and leadership skills. Those

with great technical skills but no natural leadership skills will often struggle to |

lead others. This can be evident in those working in support soles, such as in

finance or marketing for example, L

|

» take responsibitity for their own development?

Aleader characteristically demonstrate a genuine desire to learn and grow and

accepts ownership of developing their leadership skills,

It is not a matter of every candidate fulfilling all the criteria from the outse

If you can see potential and ways in which a candidate can develop to ful

more of what makes a good leader, use the checklist as a guide to ways i

which you can assist that candidate to learn and develop.

Communication also plays a huge part in how your team member

develop — and how they relate to you and engage with their role in th

business (see Chapter 12, ‘A system for communicating’).

a: