SOURCE: Chapter 8 - Developing Retail Leaders v2.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of considering assistant store managers as 'apprentice' store managers, and the need to have a strong pool of potential store managers developing within the business.
KEYWORDS: retail leadership, assistant store managers, store manager development
---

manager, is a far greater cost to the business than the additional wage

costs of having full-time assistant store managers.

Assistant store managers need to be considered as ‘apprentice’ store

managers, meaning the role can’t be filled by casuals acting as pseudo

assistant store managers, who are working while studying full-time and

who will leave the store to pursue their chosen career once they complete

their studies.

Having people who want to pursue a retail career as the assistant store

managers in stores is the way to best equip people to take on leadership

roles and will ensure you have a great pool of potential store managers

developing and growing with the business.

Rethinking the percentage of casual workers and relying on a larger

percentage of full-time workers could avoid a lot of challenges down the

track, especially when it comes to leadership.

FAQ: About Leadership

Q: Where do store managers come from?

A: Assistant core managers

Q: Where do area leaders come from?

Az Store managers

Q: Where do state managers come from?

A: Area leadere

Q: Where do national managers/general managers come from?

Az State managers

| vividly remember a one-on-one conversation | had with Flight Centre's cofounder Geoff

Harris very early in my career,

| had been performing well in my role and was hitting all of my targets. Geoff sat me down

and asked me whether | had ever considered a role in leadership. He said that he felt | had

great leadership potential, then started to articulate the qualities he saw in me.

‘WOW!' | thought. 'Me a leader!"

| had never considered myself to be a leader. As I revealed in the ‘Preface’ to this book, | had

always thought | was meant to be a teacher.

After the discussion with Geoff, | continued to work hard and within twelve months was

promoted to the position of assistant store manager.

Twelve months after that, almost to the day, my manager relocated to Sydney. Geoff spoke to

me again and indicated that he was very keen for me to take over the reins as manager of the

store, He reminded me of the qualities he saw in me and really created in me the belief that

| could be very successful in the store manager role, It was all very exciting ~ and frightening

at the same time - to be given the responsibility of a team of eight travel consultants and a

business that had a great amount of potential to grow and improve.

Being highly motivated to do a good job, | was completely driven by the new role and | worked

even harder, trying to lead by example, developing a culture in which everyone in the te

had ownership of the results, and creating an environment within which it was fun to work

Had Geoff Harris never expressed the potential he saw in me during my early days in ¢

business, | don’t think | would have ever considered taking on a leadership role - and

course, | wanted to do the best job | could to repay him for the faith he had showed in me.

In my first full year as a store manager, the store's profits grew by 150%. At the end of t

financial year, my team and | were up on stage at the company's end-of-financial-year ba

filled with pride to receive our plaque acknowledging our results,

Succession planning for senior

leadership roles

One of the greatest stumbling blocks for senior leaders is not having.

potential leaders ready to fill leadership roles when needed, especially

the business is in a growth phase. Ask yourself:

* how much time you spend identifying and developing future leade

for senior roles

how much time you spend having career conversations with the

people you lead.

Recruiting externally for senior roles can be challenging, time-consumin

and expensive. If leadership roles are not usually filled from within th

business, it can send the wrong message about future career paths to yo

people and can damage your culture.

If you consider your team:

do you know everyone in your team’s career aspirations?

do you have someone ready to step into every role in your team if

roles become available?

If you are losing quality leaders to other organisations, that could indicat

you do not have a solid succession plan in place and are not having caree

conversations with team members individually,

E Again, | want to highlight that building a succession plan and filling

leadership roles are the responsibility of operational leaders, not the

© human resources team.

Attributes senior leaders need to succeed

Before appointing anyone to a senior leadership role, consider whether

they meet the criteria listed in the followi ng checklist.

© Puta tick in the column provided beside each description you think a

© potential leadership candidate fulfils,

© have serious motivation for doing the role? i

| Senior roles are not for the fainthearted. There should be no ‘entitlement’ |

involved (like next in line being promoted due to length of employment). |

have the ability to take responsibility for strategy? | |

| __ Senior leaders need to understand that, the more senior the role, the more i |

| __ Strategic ownership, accountability and responsibility there is. i |

* achieve very good results in their current role and display genuine i

growth as a leader from that experience?

_ Many senior leaders fail when they are ina hurry to get to the next role without i

| spending enough time gaining experience and achieving results in their |

current role,

“ cope when things are not going well and have a willingness to ask for

guidance?

Having resilience and seeking support and advice is crucial in a com petitive

industry. Senior leaders need to be able to adapt quickly and bring their team

with them.

Leaders need to feel good about themselves and their ability to do the job. i