SOURCE: Chapter 8 - Developing Retail Leaders.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Career Development and Retail Leadership
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of providing regular career development discussions and feedback to retail leaders and their team members to address leadership gaps and improve performance.
KEYWORDS: career development, retail leadership, performance feedback, succession planning
---

engagement’, Deloitte Review, Issue 16, viewed 5 August 2024, <https://www2.

deloitte.com/us/en/insights/deloitte-review/issue- 1 6/employee-engagement-

strategies.html>.

Leading Leaders in Retail: The essential guide

As was discussed in Chapter 4, ‘People: The greatest business asset’, gro

(such as that involved in personal and career development) is conside,

to be one of the six human needs espoused by American career

business strategist Tony Robbins, Offering possibilities for growth an

development will meet that need in your team members and leaders,

Career development

How often do you have career discussions with each of your leaders? Hoy

often are your leaders having career discussions with their team members

In many organisations, the topic of career development is often include

as part of a yearly discussion and is linked to a performance review. | hav

heard of leaders giving performance feedback at the end of the year

people whose results have meant they will not be receiving their yearl

bonus (refer to my comments on incentives in Chapter 10, ‘Reward a

recognition’, for my thoughts on this). Giving feedback once annual|

doesn’t enable people to improve their performance and only leaves the!

frustrated and disappointed.

Ideally, feedback on results and performance should be providec

monthly — or at least quarterly, so that everyone can improve in their rol

and the opportunities for ongoing career discussions are provided.

University professor, researcher, public speaker and author Dr Bren

Brown says in her book Dare to lead. Brave work. Tough conversations.

Whole hearts,"* giving feedback to the members of your team so they car

improve is the kindest thing you can do for them.

Solving the leadership gaps in retail

For the retailers | work with, 50%-70% of their workforce is made up o

casual team members. Having a large casual workforce does have it

advantages. It provides flexibility and helps with managing costs — o

so it seems!

Something that is crucial for the success of a retail business is having highly

motivated store managers, but the most significant gaps occurring in the

chain of leadership are caused by not having a solid succession plan for.

14 Brown, Dr B., Dare to lead. Brave work. Tough conversations. Whole hearts, Random

House, New York, NY, 2018.

guide

usiness asset’, growth

yment) is considered

american career and

ties for growth and

vers and leaders.

of your leaders? How

‘heir team members?

ent is often included

mance review. | have

e end of the year to

eceiving their yearly

ster 10, ‘Reward and

lback once annually

and only leaves them

hould be provided

improve in their role

; are provided,

:

id author Dr Brené

Tough conversations.

our team so they can

force is made up of

force does have its

janaging costs — oF

iness is having highly

Japs occurring in the

} succession plan for

Vhole hearts, Random

Chapter8 Developing your team

filling store manager roles. You will probably have seen job advertisements

on online business network sites saying something similar to ‘Come and

join our superstar team’, or ‘We are looking for passionate leaders to join

our team’. Having seen many such advertisements it appears to me that,

as retailers scramble to fill store manager roles (especially for regional

stores), they all ‘fish in the same pond’ and are all trying to attract the same

people externally because they are unable to fill those roles from within

the business.

Although filling store manager roles is usually the responsibility of the

area leader, if there is no succession plan in place to fill those roles when

existing store managers move on or new stores are opened, the impact is

eventually felt further up the chain of leadership. All leadership roles need

to be filled with the right people and there needs to be a pool of great

candidates to eventually fill roles at all levels of the leadership ladder.

Rethinking the mix of your store workforce

The greatest impact on the issue of filling store manager roles with

the best candidates will be made by already having assistant manager

roles filled with the right candidates to become store managers. Having

an experienced team of assistant store managers provides the best

opportunity for a retail business to fill store manager roles with the right

people. With so much focus being on managing wage costs, it is usually

the assistant store manager role that becomes redundant or is filled with a

pseudo assistant store manager, who is often a casual team member taking

on more responsibilities.

While managing wage costs is paramount in retail, | think there is a need to

look at this strategy with fresh eyes. | want to highlight this because, when |

speak to area leaders about this concept, it is obvious that a major barrier

they face is the management of wage costs and the way that impacts their

ability to have full-time assistant store managers in their stores so those

people can gain the valuable experience necessary for them to be future

store managers.

Not having in place a pool of assistant store managers who become

capable enough in their roles to be ready to take on store manager roles

contributes to the gaps in leadership that retail businesses experience.

Leading Leaders in Retail: The essential guide

One thing retailers could do is look at ways to recruit more full-time youn

people who are not studying. Those young people would then need t

be motivated to stay and grow with the business, rather than the wa

those studying leave when they finish their studies to pursue their chose

careers. While this may be viewed as an additional cost, | often ask the

question: ‘Which cost is greater?’

What price are you paying by not having high-performing store

managers in every store?

What lost opportunities could you attribute to having the wrong

store managers in place?

« What are the long-term consequences of not having assistant store

managers in stores?

Assistant store managers: One of the most crucial roles in

retail