SOURCE: Chapter 8 - Developing Retail Leaders v2.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of developing retail leaders, particularly the importance of having a solid succession plan for store manager roles and the need to rethink the mix of the store workforce.
KEYWORDS: retail leadership, succession planning, store management, workforce strategy, assistant managers
---

and the opportunities for ongoing career discussions are provided.

University professor, researcher, public speaker and author Dr Brené

Brown says in her book Dare to lead. Brave work, Tough conversation.

Whole hearts,"* giving feedback to the members of your team so they can

improve is the kindest thing you can do for them.

Solving the leadership gaps in retail

For the retailers | work with, 50%-70% of their workforce is made up of

casual team members. Having a large casual workforce does have its

advantages. It provides flexibility and helps with managing costs ~ or

so it seems! ‘

Something that is crucial for the success of a retail business is having highly

motivated store managers, but the most significant gaps occurring in the

chain of leadership are caused by not having a solid succession plan for

filling store manager roles. You will probably have seen job advertisements

on online business network sites saying something similar to ‘Come and

join our superstar team’, or ‘We are looking for passionate leaders to join

our team’. Having seen many such advertisements it appears to me that,

as retailers scramble to fill store manager roles (especially for regional

stores), they all ‘fish in the same pond’ and are all trying to attract the same

people externally because they are unable to fill those roles from within

the business.

Although filling store manager roles is usually the responsibility of the

area leader, if there is no succession plan in place to fill those roles when

existing store managers move on or new stores are opened, the impact is

eventually felt further up the chain of leadership. All leadership roles need

to be filled with the right people and there needs to be a pool of great

candidates to eventually fill roles at all levels of the leadership ladder.

Rethinking the mix of your store workforce

The greatest impact on the issue of filling store manager roles with

the best candidates will be made by already having assistant manager

roles filled with the right candidates to become store managers. Having

an experienced team of assistant store managers provides the best

opportunity for a retail business to fill store manager roles with the right

people, With so much focus being on managing wage costs, it is usually

the assistant store manager role that becomes redundant or is filled with a

pseudo assistant store manager, who is often a casual team member taking

on more responsibilities.

While managing wage costs is paramount in retail, | think there is a need to

look at this strategy with fresh eyes. | want to highlight this because, when |

speak to area leaders about this concept, it is obvious that a major barrier

they face is the management of wage costs and the way that impacts their

ability to have fulltime assistant store managers in their stores so those

people can gain the valuable experience necessary for them to be future

store managers.

Not having in place a pool of assistant store managers who become

capable enough in their roles to be ready to take on store manager roles

contributes to the gaps in leadership that retail businesses experience.

One thing retailers could do is look at ways to recruit more full-time young

people who are not studying. Those young people would then need to

be motivated to stay and grow with the business, rather than the way

those studying leave when they finish their studies to pursue their chosen

careers. While this may be viewed as an additional cost, | often ask the

question: ‘Which cost is greater?’

What price are you paying by not having high-performing store

managers in every store?

What lost opportunities could you attribute to having the wrong

store managers in place?

« What are the long-term consequences of not having assistant store

managers in stores? ‘

Assistant store managers: One of the most crucial roles in

retail

| maintain that not having a store manager, or having the wrong store ©

manager, is a far greater cost to the business than the additional wage:

costs of having full-time assistant store managers. g

Assistant store managers need to be considered as ‘apprentice’ store

managers, meaning the role can’t be filled by casuals acting as pseudo. |

assistant store managers, who are working while studying full-time and -

who will leave the store to pursue their chosen career once they complete _

their studies.

Having people who want to pursue a retail career as the assistant store _

managers in stores is the way to best equip people to take on leadership .

roles and will ensure you have a great pool of potential store managers

developing and growing with the business.

Rethinking the percentage of casual workers and relying on a larger

percentage of full-time workers could avoid a lot of challenges down the

track, especially when it comes to leadership.

One thing retailers could do is look at ways to recruit more full-time young

people who are not studying. Those young people would then need to.

be motivated to stay and grow with the business, rather than the way.

those studying leave when they finish their studies to pursue their chosen |

careers. While this may be viewed as an additional cost, | often ask the

question: ‘Which cost is greater?’

What price are you paying by not having high-performing store

managers in every store?

What lost opportunities could you attribute to having the wrong

store managers in place?

What are the long-term consequences of not having assistant store

managers in stores?

Assistant store managers: One of the most crucial roles in

retail

| maintain that not having a store manager, or having the wrong store

manager, is a far greater cost to the business than the additional wage

costs of having full-time assistant store managers.

Assistant store managers need to be considered as ‘apprentice’ store

managers, meaning the role can’t be filled by casuals acting as pseudo