SOURCE: Choose Your High Performers Carefully.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Talent Identification and Development
SUMMARY: The email discusses the importance of carefully selecting and developing high-performing employees (HiPos) for succession planning and leadership roles.
KEYWORDS: high performers, succession planning, talent identification, career progression, ambition
---

Brett Blundy

From: Priscilla Alvarez on behalf of Brett Blundy

Sent: Friday, 6 July 2012 10:18 AM

To: Naomi_billington@dusk.com.au; merissac@lovisa.com.au; Cheryl Williams;

trudy.davis@bnt.com.au; rpeterson@adairs.com.au; David McLean

(d.maclean@adairs.com.au); Greg Milne; Nicole Noye; Shane Fallscheer; Tim Hickey

Cc: Paul Grosmann; Brett Blundy

Subject: Choose your high performers carefully...

EAGLES DON’T FLOCK TOGETHER, YOU HAVE TO FIND THEM ONE AT A TIME.

I have been talking, hearing and reading amongst the brands about our high performers (HiPo’s) and the good work we are doing to ensure succession planning and

associated education and learning is happening in our teams. Our succession planning is critical and as you know | am a huge fan of learning: “you don’t know what you

don’t know"; “Unlearning what you have learned in order to move forward”

This note is not meant to be negative but an important reminder to reiterate: Selecting HiPo’s that are not truly HiPo’s wastes time, money and energy. It will not turn into

a positive outcome for us and is not beneficial in the grand scheme of things.

Identifying talent and HiPo’s that are then given special treatment and development is an area that we need to be ruthless and disciplined in the selection criteria. We need

to ensure we are selecting talent who are both able and willing to succeed and lead into the future. What | mean by this;

* Able to succeed: Our HiPo’s are truly capable and talented individuals who are able to go 2 positions forward. 1 want to emphasis this point - two positions ~ above

their current position. Recently | have seen so many Regional’s, Area and State Mangers who are excited to talk about their HiPo’s because they've got someone

that is showing a glimmer of talent. Now a glimmer of talent in the wonderful world of retail should get you a promotion and lots of support and attention, but it

does not make you a HiPo!

* Willing to succeed: If a regional/ manager is showing great results and talent but she’s based in VIC or NSW, then that regional will need to go to a smaller state as

an element of her career progression. If that Area Manager or Regional Manager is not able to or unwilling to make the shift because of her own character or

personal circumstance then there is no point in having her on the HiPo list as she/he will not be able to move forward even if the talent is there,

How do you know?

The able and willing part is a judgement call that you must make alone and we must get it right. If they are not willing but have the talent they are still very capable

and valuable members of the team, doing a good job and we will still expect them to do a good job and we will still continue to support, but the point is that they cannot

be selected as a HiPo.

[tis important to remember that any highly ambitious persons putting their career first will take on their own learning and will be a sponge for information we provide,

They will also use their own initiative and resources to “ figure stuff out on their own”. Since they are motivated to do so, they are forced to ‘think things through’. So we

must expect that our future leaders of our company are not only ambitious people but will go beyond what we consider the norm.

It is unlikely that we have dozens of HiPo’s in the brands please ensure that we are being very ruthless on our selection of HIPo’s and were we are placing our attention and

energies so we can avoid being disappointed and of course the cost and energy that goes with that disappointment.

Please pass on to all who might need this understanding and review what is happening in you brands

Thanks for your leadership

Brett Blundy

Let's Make it Happen!