SOURCE: Coaching for Behavioral Change - Latest.doc
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Coaching for Behavioral Change
SUMMARY: The text discusses the key elements of an effective coaching process, including selecting the right clients, involving key stakeholders, and focusing on the client's and stakeholder's needs rather than the coach's ego.
KEYWORDS: coaching, behavioral change, stakeholder engagement, client selection, feedforward
---

The client that I spent the least amount of time with improved more than anyone I ever coached – and he was great to start with!  He was later recognized as the CEO of the Year in the United States.

When I asked my ‘most improved’ client, what I could learn about coaching from him, he taught me a great lesson.  He told me that I needed to: 1) pick the right clients and 2) keep the focus of my coaching on my clients and their teams (not my own ego and need to prove how smart I was).

In phase two – I spent most of my time focusing on my coaching clients.  I slowly learned that a motivated, hard-working client was more important than a brilliant coach!  I learned that their ongoing efforts meant more than my clever ideas.  My results improved!

In phase three (where I am now) – I spend most of my time not with my coaching client but with the key stakeholders around my client.  I focus on helping my clients learn from everyone around them.  By making this change, my clients’ results have improved even more dramatically.

How do I involve key stakeholders?  I ask them to help the person that I am coaching in four critically important ways:

Let go of the past.  When we continually bring up the past, we demoralize the people who are trying to change.  Whatever happened in the past - happened in the past.  It cannot be changed.  By focusing on a future that can improve (as opposed to a past that cannot improve), the key stakeholders can help my clients achieve positive change.  (We call this process feedforward, instead of feedback).

Be helpful and supportive, not cynical, sarcastic or judgmental.  As part of our coaching process, my clients involve key co-workers and ask them for help.  If my clients reach out to key stakeholders and feel punished for trying to improve, they will generally quit trying.  I don’t blame them!  Why should any of us work hard to build relationships with people who won’t give us a chance?  If my clients’ co-workers are helpful and supportive, my clients’ experience increased motivation and are much more likely to improve.

Tell the truth.  I do not want to work with a client, have him or her get a glowing report from key stakeholders, and later hear that one of the stakeholders said, “He didn’t really get better, we just said that”.  This is not fair to my client, to the company or to me.

Pick something to improve yourself.  My clients are very open with key stakeholders about what they are going to change.  As part of our process, our clients ask for ongoing suggestions.  I also ask the stakeholders to pick something to improve and to ask my client for suggestions.  This makes the entire process “two-way” instead of “one way”.  It helps the stakeholders act as “fellow travelers” who are trying to improve, not “judges” who are pointing their fingers at my client.  It also greatly expands the value gained by the corporation in the entire process.  In one of my most successful case studies, I was asked to coach one top executive – and about 200 people ended up improving.

Steps in the Leadership Coaching Process

The following steps describe the basics of our behavioral coaching process.  Every coach in our network has to agree to implement the following steps. If the coach will follow these basic steps, our clients almost always achieve positive change!

Involve the leaders being coached in determining the desired behavior in their leadership roles.  Leaders cannot be expected to change behavior if they don’t have a clear understanding of what desired behavior looks like.  The people that we coach (in agreement with their managers, if they are not the CEO) work with us to determine desired leadership behavior.

Involve the leaders being coached in determining key stakeholders.  Not only do clients need to be clear on desired behaviors, they need to be clear (again in agreement with their managers, if they are not the CEO) on key stakeholders.  There are two major reasons why people deny the validity of feedback - wrong items or wrong raters.  By having our clients and their managers agree on the desired behaviors and key stakeholders in advance, we help ensure their “buy in” to the process.

Collect feedback.  In my coaching practice, we personally interview all key stakeholders to get confidential feedback for our clients.  The people who I am coaching are all CEOs or potential CEOs, and the company is making a real investment in their development.  This more involved level of feedback is justified.  However, at lower levels in the organization (that are more price sensitive), traditional 360 feedback can work very well.  In either case, feedback is critical.  It is impossible to get evaluated on changed behavior if there is not agreement on what behavior needs to be changed!

Reach agreement on key behaviors for change.  As I have become more experienced, my approach has become simpler and more focused.  I generally recommend picking only 1-3 key areas for behavioral change with each client.  This helps ensure maximum attention to the most important behavior.  My clients and their managers (unless my client is the CEO) agree upon the desired behavior for change.  This ensures that I won’t spend a year working with my clients and have their managers determine that we have worked on changing the wrong behavior!