SOURCE: Coaching for Behavioral Change - Latest.doc
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Uncategorized
SUMMARY: Could not generate summary
KEYWORDS: 
---

Coaching for Behavioral Change

By: Marshall Goldsmith

My mission is to help successful leaders achieve positive, long-term, measurable change in behavior: for themselves, their people and their teams. When the steps in the coaching process described below are followed, leaders almost always positive behavioral change – not as judged by themselves, but as judged by pre-selected, key stakeholders.  This process has been used around the world with great success - by both external coaches and internal coaches.

Our “Pay for Results” Executive Coaching Process

Our coaching network (Stakeholder Centered Coaching) provides coaches for leaders from around the world.  All of the coaches in our network use the same proven process.  At the beginning of our coaching relationship, we get an agreement with our coaching clients and their managers on two key variables: 1) what are the key behaviors that will make the biggest positive change in increased leadership effectiveness and 2) who are the key stakeholders that can determine (twelve to eighteen months later) if these changes have occurred.

We then get paid only after our coaching clients have achieved positive change in key leadership behaviors – and become more effective leaders - as determined by their key stakeholders.

I believe that many leadership coaches are paid for the wrong reasons.  Their income is a largely a function of “How much do my clients like me?” and “How much time did I spend in coaching?”  Neither of these is a good metric for achieving a positive, long-term change in behavior.

In terms of liking the coach - I have never seen a study that showed that clients’ love of a coach was highly correlated with their change in behavior.  In fact, if coaches become too concerned with being loved by their clients – they may not provide honest feedback when it is needed.

In terms of spending clients’ time – my personal coaching clients’ are all executives whose decisions impact billions of dollars – their time is more valuable than mine.  I try to spend as little of their time as necessary to achieve the desired results.  The last thing they need is for me to waste their time!

Qualifying the Coaching Client:

Knowing When Behavioral Coaching Won’t Help

Since we use a “pay only for results” coaching process, we have had to learn to qualify our coaching clients.  This means that we only work with clients that we believe will greatly benefit from our coaching process.

We do not work with leaders who are not really motivated to change.  Have you ever tried to change the behavior of a successful adult that had no interest in changing?  How much luck did you have?  Probably none!  We only work with executives who are willing to make a sincere effort to change and who believe that this change will help them become better leaders.  Our most successful coaching clients are executives who are committed to being great role models for leadership development and for living their company’s values.

I have personally worked with several of the world’s leading CEOs.  One reason that they are so effective in leading people is that they are always trying to improve themselves – not just asking everyone else to improve.  Our best coaching clients are dedicated to be great role models in consistently working to improve themselves.

Some large corporations “write people off”. Rather than just fire them, they engage in a pseudo behavioral coaching process that is more “seek and destroy” than “help people get better”.  We only work with leaders that are seen as potentially having a great future in the corporation.  We only work with people who will be given a fair chance by their management.  We do not work with leaders who have been “written off” by senior management.

There are several different types of coaching.  We only do behavioral coaching for successful executives – not strategic coaching, life planning, or organizational change.  I have the highest respect for the coaches that do this kind of work.   That is just not what our coaches do.  Therefore, we only focus on changing leadership behavior.  If our clients have other needs, we refer them to other coaches.

Finally, I would never choose to work with a client who has an integrity violation.  We believe that people with integrity violations should be fired, not coached.

When will our approach to behavioral coaching work?  If the client’s issue is increasing leadership effectiveness, the coaching clients are given a fair chance and they are motivated to improve, the process described in this article will almost always work.  If these conditions do not exist, this process should not be used.

Involving Key Stakeholders

In my work as a behavioral coach, I have gone through three distinct phases.

In phase one – I believed that my clients would become better because of me.  I thought that the coach was the key variable in behavioral change.  I was wrong.  We have published research on leadership development that involved input from over 86,000 respondents.  In our research we have learned that the key variable for successful change in leadership behavior is not the coach, teacher or advisor.  The key variables that will determine long-term progress are the leaders being coached and their co-workers.

I learned this lesson in a very humbling way.  The client that I spent the most amount of time with did not improve and I did not get paid!   This was a painful reminder to me that I was not the key variable in my clients’ improvement.

The client that I spent the least amount of time with improved more than anyone I ever coached – and he was great to start with!  He was later recognized as the CEO of the Year in the United States.