SOURCE: Coaching for Behavioral Change - 2020.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Executive Coaching
SUMMARY: This text describes a structured approach to executive coaching, focusing on identifying key behaviors for change, engaging stakeholders, developing action plans, and ongoing follow-up.
KEYWORDS: behavioral change, stakeholder engagement, action planning, follow-up, performance improvement
---

[Document: Coaching for Behavioral Change - 2020.docx]

Reach agreement on key behaviors for change.  As I have become more experienced, my approach has become simpler and more focused.  I generally recommend picking only 1-3 key areas for behavioral change with each client.  This helps ensure maximum attention to the most important behavior.  My clients and their managers (unless my client is the CEO) agree upon the desired behavior for change.  This ensures that I won’t spend a year working with my clients and have their managers determine that we have worked on changing the wrong behavior!

Have the coaching clients respond to key stakeholders.  The person being reviewed should talk with each key stakeholder and collect additional “feedforward” suggestions on how to improve on the key areas targeted for improvement.  In responding, the person being coached should keep the conversation positive, simple, and focused.  When mistakes have been made in the past, it is generally a good idea to apologize and ask for help in changing in the future.  I suggest that my clients listen to stakeholder suggestions and not judge the suggestions.

Review what has been learned with clients and help them develop an action plan.  As was stated earlier, my clients have to agree to the basic steps in our process. On the other hand, outside of the basic steps, all of the other ideas that I share with my clients are suggestions.  I just ask them to listen to my ideas in the same way they are listening to the ideas from their key stakeholders.  I then ask them to come back with a plan of what they want to do.  These plans need to come from them, not me.  After reviewing their plans, I almost always encourage them to live up to their own commitments.  I am much more of a facilitator than a judge.  My job is to help great, highly motivated, executives get better at what they believe is most important – not to tell them what to change.

Develop an ongoing follow-up process. Ongoing follow-up should be very efficient and focused.  Questions like, “Based upon my behavior last month, what ideas do you have for me next month?” can keep a focus on the future.  Within six months conduct a two-to-six item mini-survey with key stakeholders. They should be asked whether the person has become more or less effective in the areas targeted for improvement.

Review results and start again. If the person being coached has taken the process seriously, stakeholders almost invariably report improvement. We then build on that success by repeating the process for the next 12 to 18 months. This type of follow-up will assure continued progress on initial goals and uncover additional areas for improvement. Stakeholders almost always appreciate follow-up.  No one minds filling out a focused, two-to-six-item questionnaire if they see positive results. The person being coached will benefit from ongoing, targeted steps to improve performance.

End the formal coaching process when results have been achieved.  Our goal is not to create a dependency relationship between coach and client.  While I almost always keep in touch with my coaching ‘graduates’ for the rest of their lives, we do not have an ongoing business relationship.

The Value of Behavioral Coaching for Executives

While behavioral coaching is only one branch in the coaching field, it is the most widely used type of coaching.  Most requests for coaching involve behavioral change.  While this process can be very meaningful and valuable for top executives, it can be just as useful for high-potential future leaders.  These are the people who have great careers in front of them.  Increasing effectiveness in leading people can have an even greater impact if it is a 20-year process, instead of a one-year program.

People often ask, “Can executives really change their behavior?” The answer is definitely yes.  If they didn’t change, we would never success in our process – and we almost always succeed.  At the top of major organizations even a small positive change in behavior can have a big impact.  From an organizational perspective, the fact that the executive is trying to change leadership behavior (and is being a role model for personal development) may be even more important than what the executive is trying to change.  One key message that I have given every CEO that I coach is “To help others develop – start with yourself.”

References

For a study on the effectiveness of this process with internal coaches in GE Financial Services, see “Leveraging HR: How to Develop Leaders in ‘Real Time’, in Human Resources in the 21st Century, M. Effron, R. Gandossy and M. Goldsmith, eds., Wiley, 2003.

2 “Leadership is a Contact Sport”, H. Morgan and M. Goldsmith in strategy+business, Fall 2004.

3 This process is explained in more detail in “Recruiting Supportive Coaches: A Key to Achieving Positive Behavioral Change” in The Many Facets of Leadership, M. Goldsmith, V. Govindarajan, B. Kaye and A. Vicere, eds., FT Prentice Hall, 2003.

4 “Try Feedforward, instead of Feedback” originally published in Leader to Leader, Summer 2002.

5 For a great description of the impact of co-workers’ focusing on their own improvement, read “Expanding the Value of Coaching: from the Leader to the Team to the Organization” in The Art and Practice of Leadership Coaching, H. Morgan, P. Harkins and M. Goldsmith, eds., Wiley, 2005.