SOURCE: CODB Versus Cost Reduction.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.04 HFT - Budgeting
TOPIC: Business Operations Optimization
SUMMARY: This document discusses CODB (Cost of Doing Business) and Cost Reduction initiatives to improve productivity and reduce costs.
KEYWORDS: CODB, Cost Reduction, Process Improvement, Efficiency, Continuous Improvement
---

Understanding CODB initiatives and Cost Reduction initiatives

This time each year as we look to forecast the coming 12 months, we are concerned with one thing and one thing only: Making sure our “cost of

doing business as a percentage of sales GOES DOWN!”

There are three types of initiatives we can use to achieve this objective

1. Initiatives that help us drive sales

2. CODB Initiatives

3. Cost Reduction Initiatives

The purpose of this document is to help better understand initiatives 2 and 3 above (CODB initiatives and Cost Reduction initiatives). Both these

initiatives will help us achieve our target. However CODB initiatives are critical to getting right as they are the real source of continuous

improvement – longer term change that helps us become more productive.

What is CODB and what is Cost Reduction?

■ CODB initiatives: the basis of Culture Commitment number 4: “Continuous Improvement”. They are about structural changes to the way

we operate and use our resources. The most common and most effective type is introducing systems or IT fixes to automate a process –

making it faster and free from human error. There are also other process improvements that changes the way we go about completing a

task or how we organise team members differently to complete a task (see detailed examples in table below). The unique part of CODB

initiatives is that once the change is made, it is a long term change; it cannot revert back to the ‘old way’ of doing something.

■ Cost reduction initiatives: are also important because they make sure we are operating and using our resources as efficiently as possible.

They are usually around negotiating better deals or implementing new policies or restrictions on the way we use resources (such as a travel

policy). See table below for more examples. The difficulty with cost reduction initiatives is that while they make sure we are getting the

most out of our resources, they are usually short term focussed and if you don’t keep an eye on the initiative, we often revert back to the

old way of doing things or the costs find a way to creep back into the business

Page | 1

What are some specific examples to help understand?

CODB Cost Reduction

System / IT enabled process improvements Negotiating better deals

Timeteq rostering: Using Timeteq to record our average hourly Consolidating national contracts to get a better deal on Insurance,

 

productivity and then changing rostering approach based on getting Auditing, Cleaning or Security

more hours out of most productive team members Negotiate a better rebate with top suppliers for reaching certain



Electronic invoicing: enforce electronic invoicing from major suppliers order levels



offshore to minimize manual handling and human error Making final suppliers pay freight on returns



Ipads for regional managers to complete all store checklist and sign offs Each year tender out all major contracts to make sure we are

 

which automatically flags any incompletes or issues getting the most competitive pricing

Automated approvals for timesheets and leave requests through



Timeteq Implementing new policy or restrictions on how we use resources



Travel policy: enforcing all Operations team members to be

Process Improvements: changing way we work booking flights on certain airlines and within a certain window

Picking process: by changing layout of warehouse picking runs from (i.e., must be booked a minimum 6 weeks ahead of travel date)



‘pick by store’ to ‘pick by zone’ we are cutting down average distance Enforce all state and regional team members to only purchase



each picker has to walk by 60% coffee (for coffee interviews) where we have VIP membership for

Family and Friends Recruiting: for Christmas casuals reduces our coffee club



reliance (and recruiting costs) from Seek and other sources and helps

raise the overall quality of candidates (as current team members vouch

for friends & family)

How do we get started?

The most effective way to get started is by running a Work-Out. We should be aiming to do 4 x work-outs each quarter. Even if you run a work-

out with a stretch objective around improving your sales – CODB initiatives will still come through. It is important when running work-out and

when having a ‘town hall’ to highlight which of the initiatives we are discussing fall into the 3 buckets identified above (top-line initiatives,

CODB initiatives or cost reduction initiatives). These should be used as a basis for determining their importance.

Page | 2