SOURCE: CODB & Office Use.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Corporate Innovation and Gamification
SUMMARY: The text describes a company that uses gamification techniques, such as competitions and crowdfunding, to foster employee engagement and drive innovation.
KEYWORDS: gamification, employee engagement, corporate innovation, crowdfunding, corporate culture
---

[Document: CODB & Office Use.docx]

Then there are the daily competitions in the Colosseum, a 200-seat auditorium at headquarters where employees and executives make bets on ideas that have been implemented by the teams to increase profits. Any employee can make a presentation, and the 1,400 proposals last year included everything from faster manufacturing techniques to better ways to organize trash bins. Presenters face off, with each side making a one-minute speech. Employees use an app to bet Will on the idea they back, with an upside limit of 200,000 Will (about $1,800) for each battle. The side attracting the most support wins, with victors receiving the wagers made by losers. The beaten team might revise its idea and return to the fray, using feedback from Chief Executive Officer Kazuma Sekiya, who watches the battles and comments on all the ideas. About a dozen battles are held daily, and the most popular ones can attract wagers in the hundreds of thousands of dollars. If that sounds over the top, at least one winner in the past was probably worth it: an internal policing system to catch intellectual property violations.

Naito, who studied law, trained as an accountant in his first job at a large milk producer, where he became interested in organizational management. At Disco, he worked on ways to improve productivity until Sekiya told him to take inspiration from video games: “He wanted a system like in Final Fantasy or Dragon Quest that would make work fun but also strengthen the company.” The most important element Naito borrowed from the gamer world was the idea of scoring everything in the same way games reward high scores, to re-create the spirit of fun and competition.

The company’s latest experiment is an internal crowdfunding platform where anyone can pitch business ideas. Colleagues who back a project with Will may, if it works out, earn a return one day. It’s a fast way to test concepts, as initiatives that attract funding are a good indicator of promising ideas, Naito says. Or sometimes it’s just about pride: One project that attracted funding was to buy ad space at a professional baseball stadium in Hiroshima, home to Disco’s main factory, for marketing purposes. About 400 workers pooled $140,000 of their own bonus money—or about $350 each—for the privilege to see their company’s logo after work, even though the impact on the company’s bottom line seems doubtful at best. —With Jason Clenfield