SOURCE: CommonsensePrinciples2.0.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Board Governance
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of a well-structured board with clear responsibilities, periodic rotation of leadership roles, and a robust evaluation process to ensure director effectiveness.
KEYWORDS: board structure, board leadership, director effectiveness, board evaluation, board refreshment
---

in which the company operates, the company’s business and operations, important

legal and regulatory issues, etc.

• A board should have a well-developed committee structure with clearly

understood responsibilities. Disclosures to shareholders should describe the

structure and function of each board committee.

• Boards should consider periodic rotation of board leadership roles (i.e., committee

chairs and the lead independent director), balancing the benefits of rotation

against the benefits of continuity, experience and expertise.

g. Director tenure and retirement age

• It is essential that a company attract and retain strong, experienced and

knowledgeable board members.

• Some boards have rules around maximum length of service and mandatory

retirement age for directors; others have such rules but permit exceptions; and still

others have no such rules at all. Whatever the case, companies should clearly

articulate their approach on term limits and retirement age. And insofar as a board

permits exceptions, the board should explain (ordinarily in the company’s proxy

statement) why a particular exception was warranted in the context of the board’s

assessment of its performance and composition.

• Board refreshment should always be considered in order to ensure that the board’s

skill set and perspectives remain sufficiently current and broad in dealing with fast-

changing business dynamics. But the importance of fresh thinking and new

perspectives should be tempered with the understanding that age and experience

often bring wisdom, judgment and knowledge.

3

COMMONSENSE PRINCIPLES 2.0

h. Director effectiveness

• A board should have a robust process to evaluate itself on a regular basis, led by

the non-executive chair, lead independent director or appropriate committee

chair. The board should have the fortitude to replace ineffective directors.

II. Board of Directors’ Responsibilities

a. Director communication with third parties

• Robust communication of a board’s thinking to the company’s shareholders is

important. On some issues, such as board governance and CEO compensation,

direct communication from the board may be warranted. Companies may wish to

designate certain directors to do so – as appropriate and in coordination with

management. Directors who communicate directly with shareholders ideally will

be experienced in such matters.

• Directors should speak about the company with the media only if authorized by the

board and in accordance with company policy.

• In addition, the CEO should actively engage on corporate governance and key

shareholder issues (other than the CEO’s own compensation) when meeting with

shareholders.

b. Critical activities of the board; setting the agenda

• The full board (including, where appropriate, through the non-executive chair or

lead independent director) should have input into the setting of the board agenda.

• Over the course of the year, the agenda should include and focus on the following

items, among others:

❖ A robust, forward-looking discussion of the business.

❖ The performance of the current CEO and other key members of

management and succession planning for each of them. One of the board’s

most important jobs is making sure the company has the right CEO. If the

company does not have that CEO, the board should act promptly to

address the issue.

❖ Creation of shareholder value, with a focus on the long term. This means

encouraging the sort of long-term thinking owners of a private company

might bring to their strategic discussions, including investments that may

not pay off in the short run.

❖ Major strategic issues (including material mergers and acquisitions and

major capital commitments) and long-term strategy, including thorough

4

COMMONSENSE PRINCIPLES 2.0

consideration of operational and financial plans, quantitative and

qualitative key performance indicators, and assessment of organic and

inorganic growth, among others.

❖ The board should receive a balanced assessment on strategic fit, risks and

valuation in connection with material mergers and acquisitions. The board

should consider establishing an ad hoc transaction committee if significant

board time is otherwise required to consider a material merger or

acquisition. If the company’s stock is to be used in such a transaction, the

board should carefully assess the company’s valuation relative to the

valuation implied in the acquisition. The objective is to properly evaluate

the value of what you are giving vs. the value of what you are getting.

❖ Significant risks, including reputational risks. The board should not be

reflexively risk averse; it should seek the proper calibration of risk and

reward as it focuses on the long-term interests of the company’s

shareholders.

❖ Standards of performance, including the maintaining and strengthening of

the company’s culture and values.

❖ Material corporate responsibility matters.

❖ Key shareholder concerns.

a. It is important that companies engage with shareholders and

receive feedback about matters relevant to long-term shareholder

value.

b. Shareholder proposals. In the event that a company receives a

shareholder proposal, it should consider engagement with the

proposing shareholder (as well as other shareholders, to the extent

appropriate) early in the process, preferably before the proposal

appears in the proxy. Should the proposal receive majority

shareholder support, the company should consider further

engagement with shareholders and either implement the proposal

(or a comparable alternative) or promptly explain why doing so

would not be in the best long-term interests of the company. As a

best practice, the company also should consider further

engagement with shareholders to discuss shareholder proposals

that receive significant but less than majority support and

formulate an appropriate response. And while such response may

include the adoption of the proposal (or a comparable alternative),

the board should be mindful of the fact that a majority of the

company’s shareholders did not support the proposal.

c. Management proposals. Similarly, in connection with a

management proposal, the company should consider engagement

5

COMMONSENSE PRINCIPLES 2.0

with shareholders early in the process. Should the proposal be

defeated or receive significant shareholder opposition, the

company should consider further engagement with shareholders

and formulate an appropriate response, again mindful of how a

majority of the company’s shareholders voted.

❖ The board (or appropriate board committee) should:

a. determine the best approach to compensate management, taking

into account all the factors it deems appropriate, including