SOURCE: CommonsensePrinciples2.0.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Corporate Governance Oversight
SUMMARY: Asset managers should provide senior-level oversight and evaluation of corporate governance activities and board performance.
KEYWORDS: corporate governance, asset management, board oversight, shareholder engagement, proxy voting
---

corporate governance activities should receive appropriate senior-level oversight

by the asset manager.

• Asset managers, on behalf of their clients, should evaluate the performance of

boards of directors, including thorough consideration of the following:

10

COMMONSENSE PRINCIPLES 2.0

❖ To the extent directors are speaking directly with shareholders, the

directors’ (i) knowledge of their company’s corporate governance and

policies, and (ii) interest in understanding the key concerns of the

company’s shareholders.

❖ The board’s focus on a thoughtful, long-term strategic plan and on

performance against that plan.

• An asset manager’s ultimate decision makers on proxy issues important to long-

term value creation should have access to necessary information about the

company. Asset managers with significant share ownership should have access to

the company’s management and, in some circumstances, the company’s board.

Similarly, a company, its management and board should have access to an asset

manager’s ultimate decision makers on those issues.

• Asset managers should raise critical issues to companies (and vice versa) as early as

possible, in a constructive and proactive way. Building trust between shareholders

and the company is a healthy objective.

• Asset managers may rely on a variety of information sources to support their

evaluation and decision-making processes. While data and recommendations from

proxy advisors may form pieces of the information mosaic on which asset

managers rely in their analysis, ultimately, their votes should be based on

independent application of their own voting guidelines and policies. To the extent

they use recommendations from proxy advisors in their decision-making processes,

asset managers should disclose that they do so, and should be satisfied that the

information upon which they are relying is accurate and relevant. Proxy advisors

whom they use should have in place processes to avoid or mitigate conflicts of

interest.

• Asset managers should make public their proxy voting process and voting

guidelines and have clear engagement protocols and procedures. They should

disclose their policies for dealing with potential conflicts in their proxy voting and

engagement activities.

• Asset managers should consider sharing their issues and concerns (including, as

appropriate, voting intentions and rationales therefor) with the company

(especially where they oppose the board’s recommendations) in order to facilitate

a robust dialogue if they believe that doing so is in the best interests of their

clients.

• Compensation of portfolio managers investing in public companies should be

structured to consider performance over an appropriate term, given the strategy

and investment time horizon applicable to the portfolio. Ordinarily, that will mean

using performance benchmarks over three- and five-year periods (and other

periods, as appropriate) – as well as a one-year period – for some portion of a

portfolio manager’s compensation.

11

COMMONSENSE PRINCIPLES 2.0

b. Institutional asset owners

• Institutional asset owners such as pension plans and endowments are in a position

to influence public companies either directly (insofar as they direct their own

investments) or through their interactions with asset managers (insofar as those

managers invest on their behalf). In either case, such asset owners can use their

position to advance sound and long-term oriented corporate governance. When

investing through asset managers, owners may wish to encourage such practices

through, for example:

❖ the use of benchmarks and performance reports consistent with the

asset owner’s strategy and investment time horizon

❖ interactions and dialogue with asset managers concerning corporate

governance issues; and

❖ the evaluation of asset managers on how they discharge their own role

in corporate governance matters, as set forth above in VIII.a (“Asset

managers”).

12