SOURCE: CommonsensePrinciples2.0.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Corporate Governance
SUMMARY: The document outlines corporate governance principles for public companies, their boards of directors, and institutional shareholders, emphasizing duties, composition, and internal governance.
KEYWORDS: corporate governance, board of directors, institutional shareholders
---

COMMONSENSE PRINCIPLES 2.0

The following is a series of corporate governance principles for public companies, their boards of directors

and their institutional shareholders (both asset managers and asset owners). These principles are intended

to provide a basic framework for sound, long-term-oriented governance. Given the differences among U.S.

public companies – including their size, products and services, geographic footprint, history, leadership and

ownership – we recognize that not every principle will be applied in the same fashion (or at all) by every

company, board or shareholder. Nonetheless, we intend to use these principles to guide our thinking.

I. Board of Directors – Duties, Composition and Internal Governance

a. Duties of Loyalty and Care

• Directors are accountable to shareholders and owe duties of loyalty and care to the

company. Directors’ performance should be evaluated through the company’s

long-term performance, financial and otherwise.

b. Composition

• A board must not be beholden to the CEO or management. A significant majority

of the board (and all of the members of the audit, compensation and nominating

and governance committees of the board) should be independent, consistent with

the New York Stock Exchange rules or similar standards.

• All directors must have high integrity and the appropriate competence to represent

the interests of all shareholders in achieving the long-term success of their

company. Ideally, in order to facilitate engaged and informed oversight of a

company and the performance of management, a subset of directors will have

professional experiences directly related to the company’s business. At the same

time, however, it is important to recognize that some of the best ideas, insights

and contributions can come from directors whose professional experiences are not

directly related to the company’s business.

• Independent directors should be just that: strong and steadfast, independent of

mind and willing to challenge the CEO and other directors constructively – concepts

that may not be fully reflected in black-and-white rules. At the same time,

directors should not be divisive or self-serving. Collaboration and collegiality also

are critical for a healthy, functioning board.

• Directors should be business savvy and shareholder-oriented, and have a genuine

passion for their company.

• Directors should have complementary and diverse skill sets, backgrounds and

experiences. Diversity along multiple dimensions, including diversity of thought, is

critical to a high-functioning board. Director candidates should be drawn from a

rigorously diverse pool.

1

COMMONSENSE PRINCIPLES 2.0

• While no one size fits all – boards need to be large enough to allow for a variety of

perspectives, as well as to manage required board processes – a board generally

should be as small as practicable so as to promote an open dialogue among

directors.

• Directors need to commit substantial time and energy to the role. Therefore, a

board should assess the ability of its members to maintain appropriate focus and

not be distracted by competing responsibilities. In so doing, the board should

carefully consider a director’s service on multiple boards and other commitments.

While senior managers of other companies may be time constrained, they may be

able to offer unique insights and otherwise add significant value to a board.

c. Elections of directors

• It is a fundamental right of shareholders to elect directors whom they believe are

best suited to represent shareholder interests.

• In uncontested elections, directors should be elected by a majority of the votes

cast “for” and “against/withhold” (i.e., abstentions and non-votes should not be

counted for this purpose). An individual director who fails to receive such a

majority should tender an offer of resignation. The board ordinarily should accept

the resignation; if it does not, it should clearly explain its rationale to the

company’s shareholders.

• No matter how frequently a company chooses to elect directors, a director

ordinarily should refrain from joining a board on which he or she is not committed

to serving for at least three years.

• Requiring all directors to stand for election on an annual basis may help promote

board accountability to shareholders. If a company chooses to hold elections on a

staggered basis or otherwise elect directors less frequently than annually, the

board should explain clearly (ordinarily in the company’s proxy statement) its

rationale for doing so.

d. Nominating directors

• A company’s board is responsible for nominating qualified directors consistent with

the criteria for board composition set forth in I.b (“Composition”) above.

• Long-term shareholders should recommend potential directors for the board’s

consideration if they know the individuals well and believe they would be additive

to the board.

• A company is more likely to attract and retain strong directors if the board focuses

on big-picture issues and can delegate other matters to management (see below at

II.b., “Critical activities of the board; setting the agenda”).

e. Director compensation and stock ownership

2

COMMONSENSE PRINCIPLES 2.0

• A company’s independent directors should be fairly and equally compensated for

board service, although (i) lead independent directors and committee chairs may

receive additional compensation, and (ii) committee service fees may vary. If a

director receives any additional compensation from the company that is not

related to the director’s service as a board member, such activity should be

disclosed and explained.

• Companies should consider paying a substantial portion (e.g., for some companies,

as much as 50% or more) of director compensation in stock or similar equity-like

instruments. Companies also should consider requiring directors to retain a

significant portion of their equity compensation for the duration of their tenure to

further directors’ economic alignment with the long-term performance of the

company.

f. Board committee structure and service

• Companies should conduct a thorough and robust orientation program for their

new directors, including background on the industry and the competitive landscape

in which the company operates, the company’s business and operations, important

legal and regulatory issues, etc.

• A board should have a well-developed committee structure with clearly

understood responsibilities. Disclosures to shareholders should describe the

structure and function of each board committee.