SOURCE: CommonsensePrinciples2.0.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Corporate Governance
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of the board's leadership structure, the role of the lead independent director, and the process for management succession planning.
KEYWORDS: board leadership, lead independent director, management succession
---

time, whether it is appropriate for the company to have separate or combined chair and

CEO roles. The board should periodically review its leadership structure and explain clearly

(ordinarily in the company’s proxy statement) to shareholders why it has separated or

combined the roles, consistent with the board’s oversight responsibilities.

c. If a board decides to combine the chair and CEO roles, it is critical that the board has in

place a strong designated lead independent director and governance structure. The role of

the lead independent director should be clearly defined and sufficiently robust to ensure

effective and constructive leadership. The responsibilities of the lead independent director

and the executive chair should be clearly delineated, agreed upon by the board, and

disclosed to shareholders.

d. Depending on the circumstances, a lead independent director’s responsibilities may

include:

• Serving as liaison between the chair and the independent directors.

• Presiding over meetings of the board at which the chair is not present, including

executive sessions of the independent directors.

• Ensuring that the board has proper input into meeting agendas for, and

information sent to, the board.

• Having the authority to call meetings of the independent directors.

8

COMMONSENSE PRINCIPLES 2.0

• Insofar as the company’s board wishes to communicate directly with shareholders,

engaging (or overseeing the board’s process for engaging) with those shareholders.

• Guiding the annual board self-assessment.

• Guiding the board’s consideration of CEO compensation.

• Guiding the CEO succession planning process.

VI. Management Succession Planning

a. Senior management bench strength can be evaluated by the board and shareholders

through an assessment of key company employees; direct exposure to those employees is

helpful in making that assessment.

b. Companies should inform shareholders of the process the board has for succession

planning and also should have an appropriate plan if an unexpected, emergency succession

is necessary.

VII. Compensation of Management

a. To be successful, companies must attract and retain the best people – and competitive

compensation of management is critical in this regard. To this end, compensation plans

should be appropriately tailored to the nature of the company’s business and the industry

in which it competes. Varied forms of compensation may be necessary for different types

of businesses and different types of employees. While a company’s compensation plans

will evolve over time, they should have continuity over multiple years and ensure alignment

with long-term performance.

b. Compensation should have both a current component and a long-term component.

c. Benchmarks and performance measurements (financial and otherwise) ordinarily should be

disclosed to enable shareholders to evaluate the rigor of the company’s goals and the goal-

setting process. That said, compensation should not be entirely formula based, and

companies should retain discretion (appropriately disclosed) to consider factors that may

not be easily measured, such as integrity, work ethic, effectiveness, openness, etc. Those

matters are essential to a company’s long-term health and ordinarily should be part of how

compensation is determined.

d. Companies should consider paying a substantial portion (e.g., for some companies, as much

as 50% or more) of compensation for senior management in the form of stock,

performance stock units or similar equity-like instruments. The vesting or holding period

for such equity compensation should be appropriate for the business to further senior

management’s economic alignment with the long-term performance of the company. With

properly designed performance hurdles, stock options may be one element of effective

compensation plans, particularly for the CEO. All equity grants (whether stock or options)

9

COMMONSENSE PRINCIPLES 2.0

should be made at fair market value, or higher, at the time of the grant, with particular

attention given to any dilutive effect of such grants on existing shareholders.

e. Companies should clearly articulate their compensation plans to shareholders. While

companies should not, in the design of their compensation plans, feel constrained by the

preferences of their competitors or the models of proxy advisors, they should be prepared

to articulate how their approach links compensation to performance and aligns the

interests of management and shareholders over the long term. If a company has well-

designed compensation plans and clearly explains its rationale for those plans,

shareholders should consider giving the company latitude in connection with individual

annual compensation decisions.

f. Grants to management of large special compensation awards (not normally recurring

annual or biannual awards, but those considered special awards or special retention

awards) should be carefully evaluated and reserved for special circumstances. The

rationale for special awards to the CEO and other “Named Executive Officers” whose

compensation is set forth in the company’s proxy statement should be clearly explained.

g. Companies should maintain clawback policies for both cash and equity compensation.

VIII. Investors’ Role in Corporate Governance

a. Asset managers

• On behalf of their clients, asset managers are significant owners of public

companies and, therefore, often are in a position to influence the corporate

governance practices of those companies and otherwise encourage companies and

their boards to focus on long-term value creation.

• Asset managers should exercise their voting rights thoughtfully, devoting sufficient

time and resources to evaluate matters presented for shareholder vote in the

context of long-term value creation. Asset managers should actively engage, as

appropriate, based on the issues, with the management and board of the company,

both to convey the asset manager’s point of view and to understand the company’s

perspective. Ideally, such engagement will occur early in the process to facilitate

alignment on resolution of issues where possible and avoid unnecessary disruption.

Asset managers should give due consideration to the company’s rationale for its

positions, including its perspective on certain governance issues where the

company might take a novel or unconventional approach.

• Given their importance to long-term investment success, proxy voting and

corporate governance activities should receive appropriate senior-level oversight

by the asset manager.

• Asset managers, on behalf of their clients, should evaluate the performance of

boards of directors, including thorough consideration of the following:

10

COMMONSENSE PRINCIPLES 2.0

❖ To the extent directors are speaking directly with shareholders, the