SOURCE: CommonsensePrinciples2.0.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Corporate Governance
SUMMARY: The text outlines best practices for corporate boards, including engaging with shareholders, compensating management, and minimizing time spent on non-essential matters.
KEYWORDS: corporate governance, shareholder engagement, board responsibilities, management compensation
---

company should consider further engagement with shareholders

and formulate an appropriate response, again mindful of how a

majority of the company’s shareholders voted.

❖ The board (or appropriate board committee) should:

a. determine the best approach to compensate management, taking

into account all the factors it deems appropriate, including

corporate and individual performance and other qualitative and

quantitative factors; and

b. discuss and approve the CEO’s compensation.

See below at VII (“Compensation of Management”).

• A board should be continually educated on the company and its industry, seeking

information from a variety of sources, including research reports, audit reports

and, where relevant, regulatory pronouncements. If a board feels it would be

productive, outside experts and advisors should be brought in to inform directors

on issues and events affecting the company.

• The board should minimize the amount of time it spends on frivolous or non-

essential matters – the goal is to provide perspective and make decisions to build

real value for the company and its shareholders.

• As authorized and coordinated by the board, directors should have unfettered

access to management, including those below the CEO’s direct reports.

• At each meeting, to ensure open and free discussion, the board should meet in

executive session without the CEO or other members of management. The

independent directors should ensure that they have enough time to do this

properly.

• In addition to its other responsibilities, the audit committee should focus on

whether the company’s financial statements would be prepared or disclosed in a

materially different manner if the external auditor itself were solely responsible for

their preparation.

III. Shareholder Rights

a. Public companies should allow for some form of proxy access, subject to reasonable

requirements that do not make proxy access unduly burdensome for significant, long-term

shareholders. Among the larger market capitalization companies that have adopted proxy

access provisions, generally a shareholder (or group of up to 20 shareholders) that has

continuously held a minimum of 3% of the company’s outstanding shares for three years is

6

COMMONSENSE PRINCIPLES 2.0

eligible to include on the company’s proxy statement nominees for a minimum of 20%

(and, in some cases, 25%) of the company’s board seats. A higher threshold of ownership

(e.g., 5%) often has been adopted for smaller market capitalization companies (e.g., less

than $2 billion). In either case, as a general matter, only shares in which the shareholder

has a full, unhedged economic interest should count toward satisfaction of the

ownership/holding period requirements.

b. Dual class voting is not a best practice. If a company has dual class voting, which

sometimes is intended to protect the company from short-term behavior, the company

ordinarily should have specific sunset provisions, based upon time or a triggering event,

which would eliminate dual class voting. In addition, all shareholders should be treated

equally in any corporate transaction.

c. Written consent and special meeting provisions can be important mechanisms for

shareholder action. Where they are adopted, there should be a reasonable minimum

amount of outstanding shares required in order to prevent a small minority of shareholders

from being able to abuse the rights of other shareholders or waste corporate time and

resources.

d. Poison pills and other anti-takeover measures can diminish board and management

accountability to shareholders. Insofar as a company adopts a poison pill or other anti-

takeover measure, the board ordinarily should put the item to a vote of the shareholders

and clearly explain why its adoption is in the best interests of the company’s shareholders.

On a periodic basis, the board should review such measures to determine whether they

remain appropriate.

IV. Public Reporting

a. Transparency around quarterly financial results is important.

b. A company should frame its required quarterly reporting in the broader context of its

articulated strategy and provide an outlook, as appropriate, for trends and metrics that

reflect progress (or not) on long-term goals. A company should not feel obligated to

provide quarterly earnings guidance – and should determine whether providing quarterly

earnings guidance for the company’s shareholders does more harm than good. If a

company does provide quarterly earnings guidance, the company should be realistic and

avoid inflated projections. Making short-term decisions to beat guidance (or any

performance benchmark) is likely to be value destructive in the long run.

c. As appropriate, long-term goals should be disclosed and explained in a specific and

measurable way.

d. A company should take a long-term strategic view, as though the company were private,

and explain clearly to shareholders how material decisions and actions are consistent with

that view.

7

COMMONSENSE PRINCIPLES 2.0

e. Companies should explain when and why they are undertaking material mergers or

acquisitions, major capital commitments or significant restructuring or cost-savings

initiatives.

f. Companies are required to report their results in accordance with Generally Accepted

Accounting Principles (“GAAP”). While it is acceptable in certain instances to use non-GAAP

measures to explain and clarify results for shareholders, such measures should be sensible,

and companies should provide a bridge from non-GAAP items to the most comparable

GAAP items, so as not to obscure GAAP results. In this regard, it is important to note that

all compensation, including equity compensation, is plainly a cost of doing business and

should be reflected in any non-GAAP measurement of earnings in precisely the same

manner it is reflected in GAAP earnings.

V. Board Leadership (Including the Lead Independent Director’s Role)

a. Independent leadership of the board is essential to a well-functioning board and, in

particular, effective oversight of the company and its management. There are two

common structures for independent board leadership in the U.S.: (1) an independent chair;

or (2) a lead independent director.

b. The board’s independent directors should decide, based upon the circumstances at the

time, whether it is appropriate for the company to have separate or combined chair and

CEO roles. The board should periodically review its leadership structure and explain clearly

(ordinarily in the company’s proxy statement) to shareholders why it has separated or