SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Leadership and Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of creating a great work environment, developing effective business strategies, and focusing on results to attract and retain top talent and achieve organizational success.
KEYWORDS: work environment, business strategy, leadership, talent retention, organizational performance
---

Chapter 3    The  performance pyramid

I am convinced that building a great business must start with the businessbut, often, this aspect is the most neglected. If you want

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

to attract great people to your organisation it is necessary to have an in which people want to work. How people feel about the of the business will determine how engaged they are when working in it and whether they will choose to stay or to leave your business.

Concentrating on sales and KPIs will never attract the best people or help you retain them. It is the way people feel about the organisation and about their leaders that will have enormous impact on the morale of the team – and it is the morale of the team that impacts on how well your team looks after its customers.

The role of every business leader should be to create a great of which everyone wants to be a part.

The strategy

As well as a great a great strategy – a simple, easy to implement  plan  of  action  designed to assist with achieving the goals of that organisation.

A business strategy is like a road map. We need to know where we are and where we are aiming at going. The strategy is the road map outlining the way to get there. Having a clear, workable strategy creates focus and direction, as well as bestowing ownership and accountability on everyone tasked with implementing it.

invest heavily in  marketing, product, technology andstrategy for dealing with customers. All of these are vital for the sustainability and growth of the business.

Although the business will have an overarching strategy, each leader within the business should be able to take the organisation’s business strategy and apply it to their own business plans. They can operationalise the organisation’s strategy in their own approaches to the business and have some level of accountability for the strategy’s implementation.

Chapter 3    The  performance pyramid

Results

Every organisation is focused on achieving results. Whether it is a sales target, a profit target or a growth target, there is always an outcome that everyone in an organisation is aiming to achieve.

Results are an outcome and, if you think about it, you can’t actually control your results with certainty. What you can control is where you choose to focus. My experience has shown me that the most impactful areas on which to focus are working on improving your environment or working on improving your key business strategies. The diagram below is a simple representation of the idea that focusing on the environment and strategies indirectly focuses on results.

Favourable results are what we are all in business to achieve. However, as much as we want to achieve those results, they are really the outcome of how well we manage to provide a happy and productive workplace and how well we can implement the strategies that we have agreed with our  will further the business.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

I often say that you can’t actually directly control your results, but what you can control are the things that impact on your workplace and strategies. Recognising that results are dependent on the you create and the strategies you implement will make you realise that more discussion time during in-store visits and one-on-ones should be focused on these areas.

Environment, strategy and results all working together

The ability to achieve results through implementing your strategy will rely heavily on the health of your environment. You could have the best strategy in the world but, if there isn’t alignment and a common focus across the members of your leadership team, who feel collectively responsible for achieving common goals, you will spend a lot of your time trying to get everyone on board and working for the same ends. I doubt that dealing with these kinds of issues was part of your business strategy!

Your results are an outcome of how well you have managed to provide an environment of which everyone in your organisation wants to be a part. When your  are working in a positive, cohesive environment, their engagement will be increased and your strategies will be easier to implement.

The region health checklist

To help you determine how well your region is performing in the areas  of ‘environment’, ‘strategy’ and ‘results’, a checklist is provided on the following pages for you to complete.

When you think about your role as an area leader, what do you believe your purpose to be?

The descriptions in the checklist are designed to help you identify what   you might need to focus on to improve your leadership and to achieve better results. Be as honest as you can be when completing it – this is not about being right or wrong! As well as a column for placing a tick beside  the descriptions you think apply to you, there is also a column provided    for you to make notes.

Chapter 3    The  performance pyramid

Sometimes in business, we know there are opportunities for improvement and to achieve better results. It is just a matter of knowing where to focus to make the most of the opportunities and achieve those results. There are plenty of strategies in this book to help you improve in all of the areas listed in the checklist.

Region health checklist

Put a tick in the column provided beside each of the descriptions you think applies to you. Add notes if needed.

(Continued on next page)

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

(Continued on next page)

Chapter 3    The  performance pyramid

This ‘Region health checklist’ is available for you to copy from my website: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail