SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Leadership Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses different leadership styles of area leaders in retail, focusing on the 'controlling' and 'stagnating' types.
KEYWORDS: area leadership, retail management, leadership styles, controlling leadership, stagnating leadership
---

THE ‘CONTROLLING’ AREA LEADER

(LOW SUPPORT AND HIGH EXPECTATIONS)

An area leader categorised as ‘controlling’ will be more focused on results rather than store environments.

Leaders from this category will probably feel discouraged when stores in their region are not achieving their budget projections.

Often this type of area leader was once a very good store manager, leading to frustration when the store managers they oversee are not doing the job as well as they did. As a result, ‘controlling’ area leaders tend to put additional pressure on store managers, who then become fearful, demotivated and feel as if their voices are being disregarded and their opinions ignored. Store managers experiencing this feel that they don’t have the support they need to achieve what is expected of them. This can create a ‘them and us’ mentality between store managers and their area leaders. When the pressure increases, it is likely that some store managers will want to step down from their positions or may leave the business altogether, leaving the area leader with the task of finding suitable replacements.

Typical symptoms of ‘controlling’ area leaders might be:

focusing on key performance indicators (KPIs) and results but not providing store personnel with clear strategies for achieving them

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

store managers being unclear as to what degree of autonomy they have and which decisions they are able to make independently

accepting store managers doing only what is required of them without going above and beyond for the customer or the organisation

an evident lack of teamwork and harmony in the stores in their regions

a constant need to put out spot fires at store level that result from some of the symptoms listed above.

THE ‘STAGNATING’ AREA LEADER

(LOW SUPPORT AND LOW EXPECTATIONS)

An area leader categorised as ‘stagnating’ will appear inconsistent across the environments and strategies of their region.

Stagnating Low support Low expectations

Leaders from this category probably have no systems or strategies in place.

They may have been in the role for some time and have already tried the different styles described in the other three quadrants of the diagram, but with no success.

These types of area leaders have lost sight of the purpose of their role and are unclear regarding the outcomes they want to achieve. It feels  as if they are trying to keep all those plates we discussed in Chapter 1 spinning at once and will, at times, feel quite overwhelmed. They will be so overwhelmed that they find it difficult to stay focused on a task and will be constantly trying to ‘tick boxes’ as an indicator of achievement while feeling confused as to why they aren’t actually achieving anything. They may develop a mindset that there is a lack of reward for effort in their role.

If they can’t find ways to make their roles work for them, they will likely step down from their area leader positions or leave the organisation.

Typical symptoms of ‘stagnating’ area leaders might be:

low  engagement and little desire to achieve budgets

high  turnover, particularly of store managers

Chapter 2     The four categories of  area leaders

disharmony or frustration among

disengagement with the area leader role and its purpose.

THE ‘EMPOWERING’ AREA LEADER

(HIGH SUPPORT AND HIGH EXPECTATIONS)

An area leader categorised as ‘empowering’ will be responsible for balance between the creation of a great working environment and implementation of strategies that achieve results.

Typically, those leading from this category deliver the best results. They are able to create and

maintain high performing stores, regardless of their customer demographic or location. They take complete ownership of their and its results.

These area leaders develop store managers who take full responsibility for results, deliver a consistent customer experience and create environments that make their stores great places to work. They demonstrate a genuine care for the organisation’s brand.

Ultimately, these area leaders are able to achieve results by providing high levels of support in order to achieve the high expectations they have of their store managers and .

‘Empowering’ area leaders will:

be highly driven to achieve

deliver or exceed their budget expectations

take ownership of and responsibility for their region and will believe in the company’s goals and vision

be passionate about the company brand and will find purpose in the area leader role

be highly respected by their  and their peers.

Moving between the categories of area leader

I have found there to be a correlation between motivational behaviours from leaders and great results in regions. However,

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

‘empowering’ area leaders don’t suddenly appear. There is typically an evolution through the other categorical behaviours that occurs.

HOW ‘ACCOMMODATING’ AREA LEADERS CAN BECOME ‘CONTROLLING’ AREA LEADERS

Typically, area leaders start as ‘accommodating’ (high support and low expectations), wanting to support their stores and wanting to be liked – which results in wanting to please the people with which they deal, solving their problems and making everyone happy. Sometimes area leaders promoted from retail roles have become the leader of those who had been their peers and it takes some time to transition to this new role and the change in relationships it represents.

When results are not being achieved, the ‘accommodating’ area leader becomes frustrated. The role starts to feel difficult. The area leader, becoming uncertain of where to focus attention, starts to give even more to the role, working longer hours hoping that will achieve better results. As they work longer and longer hours to get the job done (trying to ‘spin more plates’), resentment starts to build. As a result, these area leaders may move from the ‘accommodating’ category to the ‘controlling’ one.

HOW ‘ACCOMMODATING’ AREA LEADERS CAN BECOME ‘EMPOWERING’ AREA LEADERS