SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Relationship Building and Leadership
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of building trust and relationships with store managers and consultants to effectively implement new strategies and drive business success.
KEYWORDS: relationship building, trust, leadership, store managers, communication
---

Building and valuing relationships

Initially, every one of my store visits was focused on building relationships. I felt this was imperative for turning around results.

In order for me to get everyone on board with new strategies, behaviours and standards, I first needed store managers and consultants to trust me. Trust would only be built if I invested time in building relationships with everyone, from the most experienced store manager to the newest consultant. I invested time in getting to know each person during one- on-one discussions. Initially, I did not ask each of them much about their work role but more about themselves: their motivations; and their hopes and dreams for their careers. I learnt about their families and their lives outside of work, as well as sharing with them a lot about my own life and my passions. I related this back to my own experience as a novice travel consultant and the impactful conversations Geoff Harris had with me. It was the care Geoff had showed for me and the leadership that he had modelled to me that taught me the importance of this kind of interaction as a valuable strategy.

Harnessing connection

Not only was it crucial for me to develop trusting relationships with store managers and consultants, it was crucial that store managers had trusting relationships with each other and with their teams.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

I believe that area leaders can spend too much time dealing with people problems – whether the problems be conflict, performance or relationship issues within teams, all of these prevent the establishment of a connected environment and are a cause of teams not working together. I believe that most  turnover is due to unhealthy relationships within the workplace environment. Whether the relationship issue is with a team member or the team leader, if there is a lack of connection and trust, people will leave.

A group of store managers who are cohesive and aligned to a shared vision and goals will have an enormously positive impact on the whole environment in your region.

I found ways to ensure that the store managers spent time together, not only working on their business but also building connections with each other, so they felt supported not only by me but also by their peers. Store manager meetings are a great way to connect and learn from each other (more on this in Chapter 10). The store managers were crucial to building the community I wanted to create.

At the start of every month I met with store managers and assistant store managers. These meetings became the vehicle not only for building connection but also for creating opportunities for team development. The meetings with assistant store managers provided an opportunity for me to see who was ready to step up and enabled me to begin building a community within the leaders of the future.

Creating ownership

If we want leaders to achieve results, they first need to take ownership of the results for which they are aiming. Each leader needs to have the mindset that she or he ‘owns their business’. This need not be physical or financial ownership, but it does need to be ‘spiritual’ and psychological ownership.

To meet my regional budget goals, rather than giving each store manager a target for making her/his share of the total target figure, I would ask each store manager to develop her/his own store budget goal, ensuring they each had ownership of their own target. They each needed to make decisions for ‘their’ business; decisions that would be in line with their budget goal and attaining it. Not only did this create ownership, it also improved the business acumen of the store managers (more on this in

Chapter 4    Building the environment

Chapters 8 and 11). I would then check that the total of all the stores’ target figures had reached my overall regional budget goal. More often than not, the total exceeded the regional goal because each store manager wanted to achieve more than I had expected. Most importantly, each store manager had committed to a target and had striven to achieve it.

Valuing and appreciating people (all of them)

I truly believe that everyone comes to work to do a good job. Whether they are the store manager, or a part-time or casual  member, everyone needs to be valued equally. This means leaders need to have one-on-one discussions with part-time , getting to know them just as well as they know full-time .

I have never considered the worth of anyone based on their role; be they store manager or part-time or casual  member, everyone should be valued equally.

If you treat your  as if they are just numbers, they will behave that way and this will impact on how customers are treated and, ultimately, on morale. Noticing the little things that someone does and acknowledging that will pay off. Remembering the name of someone’s partner or the names of their children, or remembering an important date or event in their lives can make a real difference.

I hold the philosophy that your  are humans first and employees second. It is about who they are, not what they do or the roles they fill.

I have always remembered the following adage and it has been a key influence on how I have made many business decisions:

Profit is the measure of how well you meet the needs of your customers. Your customers are the measure of how well you meet the needs of your people.

45

Type here

Building the environment:

Light bulbs

46

Type here

Building the environment:

Actions

47

Chapter 5

Building strategies