SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Management
SUMMARY: This document provides guidance on prioritizing and preparing for retail store visits to improve business performance.
KEYWORDS: store visits, performance management, retail operations, priority stores, preparation
---

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Priority B stores will be next. It is likely that your visits to these stores will be mid-month (depending on the number of Priority A stores you need to visit). Remember, these stores are generally solid performers.

You will then return to your Priority A stores for a follow-up visit to check on their progress and assist with implementing the plan put in place at the beginning of the month.

Your visits to your Priority C stores will be later in the month. Remember, your Priority C stores are your best performing stores, so visiting them later in the month means you will usually have an opportunity to acknowledge their positive results for the month.

Following the schedule just described means that you will spend more time in the stores that require more support and you will be using your time where it is most needed.

I have been asked whether visiting the Priority C stores towards the end of every month created a belief in the minds of the store managers that their stores were not as important as the stores I visited earlier and at which I spent more time. It is important, to avoid this misconception, to communicate to the store managers and  of your Priority C stores that you visit them later in the month because you have absolute confidence and trust in them and just want to empower them to get on with the job they are doing.

Each month, you should spend time reassessing and  reprioritising  your stores. A lot can change from month to month, so a store that is a Priority C store this month could easily become a Priority A store in the following months.

.

Chapter 8     Strategy 3 Deliver on your store  visits

Preparing for your store visits

The saying that ‘Time is money’ is certainly true when it comes to store visits. Area leaders spend up to 80% of their time conducting store visits, so it makes sense that, if you want to improve your results, preparing yourself efficiently for your store visits is essential.

Following the suggestions will require a bigger focus on your preparation for store visits and will require you to have a clear purpose and a clear idea of the outcomes you want to be achieved. It is often our mindset that needs addressing and changing first when it comes to the discipline of spending time on preparation.

If your store managers are made aware you will be visiting, they can also prepare so the most is made of the time you spend with them.

As you start to prepare using some of the strategies I have described, ask yourself:

‘What are my  sales targets for the month?’

‘How much is each of my stores contributing to my overall target for the?’

If you have a sales target of $500,000 for the month and one of your stores has a target of $50,000, that store visit is worth 10% of your overall monthly target. When you can interpret each of your store visits in this way, it will help to change your mindset, the way in which you prepare and how much value you place on each visit.

Here are some key areas on which to focus when preparing for each store visit.

Look at the store’s KPIs.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Store manager preparation.

Managing brand standards.

These areas of focus will now be discussed in more detail.

LOOK AT EACH STORE’S KPIS

I have always said that ‘KPIs don’t lie’. Performance indicators will tell the story of what is going on in your and in each of your stores. The better you can get to know these numbers, the better you can implement specific strategies to improve results.

The key performance indicator (KPI) template

I recommend designing a standard KPI template that you can use in your preparation for each store visit. If you are part of a team of area leaders, this might be something you can create together.

Once you have your own template, you can amend it and perfect it as you become more comfortable using it.

Your KPI template might include such KPIs as:

sales – last year’s figures, figures to date for the current year and forecasts for the rest of the current year

margins – last year’s figures, figures to date for the current year and forecasts for the rest of the current year

costs – last year’s figures, figures to date for the current year and forecasts for the rest of the current year

customer reports

reports.

Whatever the measures recorded for your business, take the time to familiarise yourself with the details, so you know the numbers.

Chapter 8     Strategy 3 Deliver on your store  visits

I always preferred to handwrite the KPIs of each of my stores on my template. I am not a fan of fancy systems and spreadsheet software that will populate tables of figures for you because this inhibits your ability to develop your business acumen. Handwriting the numbers helps to teach you the key drivers of your business and improves your business acumen and understanding, which is essential for your growth in your role.

Each store is unique and needs to be treated differently (remember the Priority A, B and C stores). It is likely that there will be a slightly different focus for each of your stores. For example, busy shopping centre stores might have a greater need to focus on achieving high volumes of sales and high volumes of customers, whilestores might have a greater need to focus on higher sales per customer.

i levels and rosters are a key focus for most retailers and each of your stores will have different  requirements. Therefore, designing a standard KPI template to help you assess how each store is tracking and what each store needs will help you to have clear and focused store visits.