SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Time Management for Retail Area Leaders
SUMMARY: This guide provides strategies for retail area leaders to prioritize and manage their time effectively, focusing on quality over quantity and maximizing impact.
KEYWORDS: time management, retail leadership, productivity, prioritization, strategic planning
---

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

This table is available for you to copy from my website: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

From the list in the tables, there are probably not going to be any activities that you can eliminate altogether. However, focusing on quality not quantity and putting more focus and effort into the activities that will help improve your results will ensure better use of your time.

Chapter 6     Strategy  Prioritise and  manage  your  time

After completing the tables, you will have a full week of data showing you how you actually spend your time and you will be able to reflect on which of your activities will make the biggest difference to your results.

Are you spending too much time on activities that have little or no impact on results?

For example, you might find that you are spending the majority of your time in stores. If so, are your store visits carried out in a way that delivers key outcomes for the business? Are store visits an activity for which you need to spend more time planning and preparing, so you can improve the way in which you conduct your visits to make them more effective?

When you calculate the total time you spend on the road, are you spending a day a week in your car driving from store to store? Sometimes this is unavoidable – but ask yourself if there is a better way to do it.

If you are working long hours, and fear this will become unsustainable, completing the tables and prioritising your activities will help to shed light on the areas in which you are spending most of your time. Your goal should be to use the time more productively to deliver better results.

Based on what you believe to be activities that represent time well spent, what changes do you need to make to how you are spending time so that you are using your time in ways that will best impact your results.

Scheduling your activities

Area leaders all need to be mindful of how they spend their time and prioritise their activities. So let’s look at how you schedule your time and see if there is a way to ensure you feel in control and you are investing the right amount of time in the right activities.

Starting with your month, your week and your day, the following are some strategies that might help you.

Your month

It is important to think about your time in whole months, rather than week- to-week, or day-to-day. The following suggestions will help you to schedule your time based around your month.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Whether you have an online diary or a paper diary, I suggest you always start with a monthly planner. I also recommend always having your next month’s calendar handy.

There will be key activities that you will have every month and these should be listed ahead of time.

I offer the following suggestions as a guide.

MONTHLY COMMITMENTS

Put into your diary all of the commitments you have for the month, such as store manager meetings, assistant store manager meetings, training or planning sessions that you are either attending or facilitating, area leader meetings, product updates, , recruitment days, etc. Once you have done this, you will be able to see the number of days you have left for other activities.

The following are some recommendations for prioritising and allocating time in your monthly plan:

Mondays: administration, leadership calls, planning for the week’s store visits

Tuesdays: store visits

Wednesdays: store visits

Thursdays: store visits

Fridays: keep free for anything that might arise – urgent store visits, meetings, interviews, etc.

Mondays are generally not a good day to visit stores because this is the day when store managers are often out of  the stores and Mondays can often be a quieter trading day. For this reason, Monday each week is the best day for you to plan your store visits for the week. Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays are the best days to make the visits.

Area leaders can fall into the trap of overscheduling themselves and filling their diaries, so I always encourage them to keep Fridays free for the unexpected. This might include important recruitment interviews,

Chapter 6     Strategy  Prioritise and  manage  your  time

dealing with a challenge or issue at a store, or an unexpected unscheduled meeting. If you are lucky enough to avoid any unexpected demands cropping up on your Friday, you can use the day to visit a store that needs additional support, or use the time for follow up or to work with a particular individual or team. I know there is always something to do and creating spare time ahead of when that time might be needed is better than cancelling a pre-arranged store visit to make the necessary free time.

WORKING ON BUSINESS (WOB) DAYS – ONE DAY PER MONTH

Working on business (WOB) days are business planning and reflection days (as opposed to the regular ‘working in the business’ days of your area leader role dealing with stores). These are days you allocate for looking at your results as a whole. They provide a chance to step back and assess things from a distance.

To do this effectively, I recommend you need one day per month –  on the first day of the new month, depending  on how quickly you can gain access to important KPI reports and results that will provide you with the information to not only see your  results but to understand how they were achieved, regardless of whether the results were pleasing or disappointing.

Here are some questions to consider that might help you.

What positive KPI results did your achieve?

Which KPIs results were disappointing and what indications of them did you miss?

How does your ing look? Are there vacancies you need to fill?

What leadership positions do you have vacant, if any?