SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Management Strategies
SUMMARY: Discusses the importance of creating a positive work environment and implementing effective business strategies to drive organizational success.
KEYWORDS: business environment, organizational strategies, employee engagement, customer experience, area leadership
---

Profit is the measure of how well you meet the needs of your customers. Your customers are the measure of how well you meet the needs of your people.

45

Type here

Building the environment:

Light bulbs

46

Type here

Building the environment:

Actions

47

Chapter 5

Building strategies

In Chapter 4, I have already shared some of the ways of building a positive environment that were instrumental for me, as an area leader, being able  to turn around my region. You could say that creating a great environment  is actually a great strategy in itself – and you would be right. But building  an environment and building strategies are slightly different.

‘Environment’ in a business is an intangible and is difficult to measure and quantify. ‘Strategies’ are easier to identify and easier to measure.

I have already emphasised the importance of building a great workplace environment. Having great strategies is also crucial but I need to stress that great strategies alone will not achieve great results.

I also need to highlight that maintaining a great environment, once established, is in itself an ongoing strategy. This is not something usually focused on when an area leader begins to lead a region, but it is something that should be focused on consistently and at every opportunity.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

When you have a great environment, implementing strategies becomes easier because your teams are happy, engaged and want the organisation to do well. They feel invested in its success.

Patrick Lencioni (in the subtitle of his book The Advantage, already referred to in Chapter 3) says ‘organizational health [which I refer to as the ‘environment’] trumps everything else in business.’ By this I interpret him as meaning that the achievement of the best results will happen when the business environment and strategies are working together.

As you read through the following chapters, it may surprise you to see that there isn’t a chapter specifically dedicated to the customer experience or how to improve your customer service. That is not to say that I don’t believe this to be important. I am a believer that the customer experience can only improve if the  experience is focused on first. What matters to customers is how they are treated by . When morale is high and  feel valued and appreciated for the work they do, that has the greatest impact on how well they look after customers. Area leaders are in a position to have the biggest impact on the  experience, which also impacts on the customer experience.

In the following chapters, I will share some of the most effective key strategies, which have proven to work. Each chapter is dedicated to one of the following strategies.

Strategy 1: Prioritise and manage your time (Chapter 6)

Strategy 2: Maximise your store visits (Chapter 7)

Strategy 3: Deliver on your store visits (Chapter 8)

Strategy 4: Engage your part-time workforce (Chapter 9)

Strategy 5: Have meetings that matter (Chapter 10)

Strategy 6: Develop your business acumen (Chapter 11)

Strategy 7: Develop your future leaders (Chapter 12)

As you read each of these chapters, it would be helpful for you to have the right mindset. Author Carol Dweck, is ‘a pioneering researcher in the field of motivation, why people succeed (or don’t) and how to foster success’ (https://www.ted.com/speakers/carol_dweck). She is a respected expert when it comes to mindset and believes we either have a ‘fixed mindset’ or a ‘growth mindset’.

Chapter 5   Building strategies

A ‘fixed mindset’ refers to the belief that we only have a certain skillset and are only capable of what comes naturally. For example, if you are a good swimmer but not a good runner, then a fixed mindset would accept that is just how it is – it’s how you were born and you can’t really do much about it. This mindset means that there is no opportunity to change or to improve.

A ‘growth mindset’ refers to the state of mind in which our beliefs tell us that we can keep growing and developing if we are open to change and looking for possibilities. If we are open and prepared to try something different, then we have the capacity to improve and grow.

As you read through each of the following chapters it would be helpful  to adopt a growth mindset and be open to thinking about how you could try implementing some of the strategies discussed. Not only would this mindset be helpful for you in your role, but it would also benefit your store managers to open their minds to the same possibilities.

If you are delivering great results already, then I would say that what you are doing is working fine and the following chapters might just represent an interesting read, or might provide the icing for an already ‘well-baked cake’. But, no matter how good your current results are, if you feel you have the potential to achieve better results, whether that be an improvement in your time management or an improvement in your financial results, then having a growth mindset will be helpful as you read the next chapters.

51

Type here

Building strategies:

Light bulbs

52

Type here

Building strategies:

Actions

53

Chapter 6

Prioritise and manage your time

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Traps for area leaders

I have worked with hundreds of area leaders and I have found that there are some common mistakes many area leaders make when it comes to how they spend their time. Some of the common issues I have seen are:

they overschedule their time and don’t allow time for the unexpected

they are obsessed with spending an unwarranted amount of time in store

they don’t spend time planning, preparing and establishing key outcomes for each store visit

they don’t prioritise their activities.

Let’s now look at each of these in more detail.

Overscheduling and not allowing time for the unexpected