SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
SUMMARY: This text discusses analyzing KPI results, identifying strengths and weaknesses, and formulating focus areas for the upcoming month/season.
KEYWORDS: KPIs, retail performance, store management, leadership
---

What positive KPI results did your achieve?

Which KPIs results were disappointing and what indications of them did you miss?

How does your ing look? Are there vacancies you need to fill?

What leadership positions do you have vacant, if any?

What is your plan to fill any leadership vacancies?

Does the filling of vacancies require your focus this month?

Of which stores/results are you most proud?

Which specific results do you find disappointing?

What are some key areas on which you should focus for the new month/season?

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Your answers to these questions will help you formulate some of the focus areas for your store visits and store manager meetings for the new month. This process will also indicate the stores and individuals you need to reward and recognise.

I guarantee that investing your time in doing this will pay huge dividends. Not only will you feel more in control of your business, you will have better quality conversations with your teams and will spend more time focusing on the things that matter. This will increase your confidence, enhance your business acumen and improve your results.

Your week

Remember, when planning each week, I recommend that Mondays are for working on your business and planning your store visits for the week, while Fridays should be kept free for the unexpected. So, this leaves you three days for store visits.

When it comes to planning your schedule of store visits, Chapters 7 and 8 focus on how to schedule, plan, prepare and execute great store visits.

Your day

Based on the monthly and weekly schedules already described, most weeks you will have three days for store visits. This thought might make  you anxious because you could be accustomed to spending most of your time visiting stores – perhaps as many as four or five days per week.

When you have learnt to plan, prepare and execute efficient and successful visits you will see that it is the quality of the visits and not the quantity that makes the biggest difference to your results.

Depending on your store locations, I recommend you visit one store per day, or no more than two stores on any one day.

Once you learn to take control and strategically think about how to  schedule your time, you will start to see benefits quickly. You will be able to think more clearly, be more outcome focused and will not feel as though you are constantly rushing from place to place.

64

Type here

Strategy  Prioritise and manage your time:

Light bulbs

65

Type here

Strategy  Prioritise and manage your time:

Actions

66

Chapter 7

Maximise your store visits

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

‘Light bulbs’ appeared, for me and for Helen, as she recounted the differences between the ways in which she led the two states. She began to see that what she had unintentionally created for herself in Western Australia was a leadership style that made her store managers reliant on her. She didn’t value the time she spent in Western Australia as much, because she knew she would be back again the following week or could pop into a store at a moment’s notice. The Western Australian store managers didn’t need to think for themselves and solve their own challenges, and Helen hadn’t built the same tightknit community of leaders that she had in South Australia.

Visiting stores as often as Helen did in Western Australia doesn’t teach store managers to step up, take responsibility, solve their own problems and deliver results. It doesn’t allow them to be true business leaders.

Chapter 7  Strategy 2 Maximise your store visits

To improve results, it is imperative that everyone in a leadership role needs to step up and this starts with area leaders. Area leaders need to provide appropriate levels of support, set clear expectations, manage those expectations and create the space in which store managers can step up and do their jobs.

It creates a lose/lose situation if area leaders try to be the pseudo store managers of multiple stores, leaving store managers to be nothing more than store caretakers. It results in a lack of ownership of stores and of results by store managers and , which leads to frustration. It just doesn’t work!

The best results occur when store managers are allowed to develop into true business leaders, taking spiritual and psychological ownership of their stores, caring about their , caring about their customers and caring about their results.

To assist you in improving the outcomes of your store visits and the results they achieve, complete the ‘Store visit maintenance checklist’ on the following pages. It is a kind of ‘health check’ aimed at helping you  to evaluate what you are doing well and the changes you may need to consider making to improve your results.

After completing the checklist, you will easily see which strategies you marked ‘Yes’ and which you marked ‘No’.

Some of the strategies that you are not implementing, and you marked ‘No’, may not be important to you right now but, as you continue to read through this book, I hope you will see that you may want to consider also implementing some of those strategies in your region.

Store visit maintenance checklist

Read through the behaviours listed in the checklist on the following pages.

If you always behave in the manner described, circle ‘Y’ for ‘Yes’.

If you behave in the manner described only some of the time, circle ‘S’ for ‘Sometimes’.

If you never behave in the manner described, circle ‘N’ for ‘No’.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail