SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for area leaders in retail to maximize store visits and empower store managers to take ownership and accountability for their results.
KEYWORDS: store visits, store manager empowerment, retail leadership, area leader responsibilities, strategic approach
---

If you always behave in the manner described, circle ‘Y’ for ‘Yes’.

If you behave in the manner described only some of the time, circle ‘S’ for ‘Sometimes’.

If you never behave in the manner described, circle ‘N’ for ‘No’.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Try to avoid circling ‘S’ for ‘Sometimes’ unless it proves really difficult to decide between ‘Y’ for ‘Yes’ and ‘N’ for ‘No’ because this response, while indicating room for improvement, does make it difficult to determine the behaviours on which you need to focus most to improve what is achieved by your store visits.

(Continued on next page)

Chapter 7  Strategy 2 Maximise your store visits

This ‘Store visit maintenance checklist’ is available for you to copy from my website:

www.alisoncrabb.com.au

71

Type here

Strategy 2 Maximise your store visits:

Light bulbs

72

Type here

Strategy 2 Maximise your store visits:

Actions

73

Chapter 8

Deliver on your store visits

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Many underachieving area leaders over the years have given me numerous reasons why they felt the need to visit stores frequently, even though it did not seem to improve their results. Among those reasons I have consistently heard, ‘So that stores feel I am supporting them,’ or, ‘I need to make sure they are doing the things they are meant to be doing.’

I began to wonder how area leaders making so many store visits impacts on the mindset of their store managers.

If I was a store manager and my own area leader felt the need to visit my store so often I would ask myself, ‘Why does she/he not trust me?’ Or worse, when faced with a solvable problem, I might reach the point of saying to myself, ‘I have a problem that I need to solve, but I will wait for my area leader to visit and solve it for me.’ Area leaders who visit stores more often than necessary tend to take initiative away from store managers to control situations and solve their own problems. Store managers develop the mindset of ‘caretakers’ rather than of leaders in the business. They feel like they are just in their roles to manage the status quo and make sure their stores are open, while all the big decisions are to be made by someone else. Handing over responsibility in this way, so area leaders make the decisions and solve the problems, creates in store managers a lack of ownership and a lack of accountability for their results.

I have often been asked, ‘How many stores should an area leader have in their region?’ This is a difficult question to answer because the ideal number depends on a lot of factors, such as the geography of the area (regional or metropolitan), the size of the stores and the specific requirements and responsibilities of the area leader. However, I am convinced that area leaders can be responsible for larger regions with greater numbers of stores if they implement the strategies suggested in this book, becoming more strategic in their approach and the way they spend their time and providing the space and opportunity for store managers to step up. There also needs to be a commitment from the business leaders to provide training and development to store managers, providing them with the necessary skills.

Have you ever:

asked yourself, while driving to a store for a store visit, ‘What will   I cover in this visit today?’ – being unclear on the outcomes you wanted to achieve?

Chapter 8     Strategy 3 Deliver on your store  visits

left a store after a store visit and remembered later that there was something you intended to share or discuss, but that you had forgotten?

been unexpectedly ‘blindsided’ by a resignation from one of your store managers?

carried out activities in a store that are really the role of the store manager?

needed to reschedule a store visit at the last minute to ‘put out a fire’ in a store somewhere else?

All of these scenarios can result from a lack of planning and a lack of preparation for your store visits. They can all be avoided with some focus on the right areas.

The following pages contain some of my recommended strategies to assist with preparation and planning. Some of these strategies involve a change of belief and mindset while some will require a change in behaviour. They might be enough to encourage some area leaders to undertake a degree of self-reflection and self-discipline, to change what isn’t working and try something new.

Strategies for store visits

Quality not quantity of store visits

In most cases, you should only need to visit a particular store twice a month – at most!

It is the quality of a store visit rather than the quantity of store visits that will make the biggest difference to your results. The need to visit stores too frequently can sometimes result from lack of preparation.

If every store visit was prepared and delivered with purposeful outcomes, area leaders wouldn’t need to spend quite so much precious time on the road driving from store to store. Their time could be spent on important areas of the business and would contribute more to favourable results.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Creating business folders

Do you keep note and  make  notes  during  each  store  visit?  When conducting store visits, how do you make notes regarding your conversations? What system do you have in place for following up after your store visits?

I have found that area leaders use a variety of tools to varying degrees of success. The

This system will enable you to have more focused store visits and to keep all of your information in the one place. It will also make it easier to follow up whether  have enacted suggestions made during your visit.