SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Leadership Styles
SUMMARY: Comparison of the roles and leadership styles of store managers and area leaders in the retail industry.
KEYWORDS: store manager, area leader, leadership style, retail management, retail strategy
---

However, the way store managers and area leaders go about the delivery of these requirements is very different and, as I mentioned earlier, each relies on a different set of skills and a different leadership style.

Leadership styles necessary for store managers and area leaders

Store manager	Area leader

The table below illustrates the key differences between the approaches and functions performed by both types of retail leaders.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

A store manager can control results on a daily basis. Store managers are able to be hands-on and usually work from day to day, and week to week, focusing on the here and now. They are able to direct  to do what needs to be done and can give on-the-spot training and feedback to the sales . They recruit, train and manage their own  daily.

Area leaders spend more time in stores than they do in any other part of the business, so they have more contact with the  and customers than anyone else in a middle-management leadership role within the business. When a new business strategy needs to be communicated and implemented throughout the store network, it is often the responsibility of the area leader to ensure its seamless roll out.

Area leaders need a broader range of skills than store managers. They need to learn to influence behaviours, to think more strategically and to be able to forward plan.

Area leadership: The most influential role in retail

I believe area leaders are more influential than any other leaders in retail.

Even though online retail sales are growing,  of all retail sales are still made face-to-face, in stores. So, strategically, it makes good business sense to invest in your retail stores and in people, who remain your greatest sales avenue. It is vital that investment in frontline leadership become a bigger strategic focus for

All retailers work hard to improve their results. Thousands of retailers invest large amounts in enabling their teams of area leaders to spend most of their working days visiting stores. When salaries, on-costs and travel costs are considered, this can total millions of dollars.

training and development can slip straight into an area leader role, without there being any consideration of the need for investment in teaching the new skills she or he might need to develop.

Chapter 1    The role of the area leader

, without investment in training and acknowledgement of the change and focus required for the new role, a newly-appointed area leader could lack clarity in regard to that role, resulting in a choice to stay well within her/his comfort zone and to retreat back into the store manager persona that had been successful previously. Stuck in that comfort zone, the new area leader becomes the pseudo store manager for the day at each of the stores she/he visits as area leader, because this feels comfortable and makes her/him feel useful.

Area leadership: The most rewarding role in retail (when done well)!

Throughout my -year career in retail, my time spent as an area leader was, without doubt, the best and most rewarding of those years – building and being part of a community, and creating a sense  of belonging and connection among a group of passionate people who  were all working together towards a single vision and shared goals.

It was always rewarding to watch a new person join team, usually starting as a, then working their way    to become a store manager and then advancing further to become a successful area leader.

I can recount many stories about young, keen, enthusiastic people building amazing careers, like the story about on the next page. This was the part of being an area leader that I loved most. Nothing gave me greater satisfaction than watching a store manager promoted to an area leader position and then watching their success in that role lead them to further promotion and more recognition. Decisions that I made as an area leader, supporting and encouraging new employees and assisting their development, benefitted not only the employee but also the entire business long-term.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

8

Type here

The role of the area leader:

Light bulbs

9

Type here

The role of the area leader:

Actions

10

Chapter 2

The four categories of area leaders

When you think about your role as an area leader, what do you believe your purpose to be?

I am not referring to your job description. I’m asking you what you believe to be the true purpose of  your role? Why were area leaders put on    this Earth?

I want you to think beyond the role’s job description and to reflect on the following questions:

Why do invest resources to have area leaders in their businesses?

What do you believe the true purpose of the role of an area leader to be?

If I  to ask the CEO of yourthe same two questions about the role of an area leader, how would she or he answer them?

Area leaders are a single point of contact for most of what happens at store level and they, most certainly, have the greatest influence on how well sales teams meet the needs of customers.

Area leader roles are roles of influence rather than control.  Area  leaders influence the behaviour of all the store managers and  for whom they are responsible. An area leader cannot be in every store every day (although some may try – remember Mary and the spinning plates       in Chapter 1)! Fundamentally, area leaders are at the heart of a retailer’s communication and are the source of all information relayed to stores from. They communicate all areas of the organisation’s support functions to stores and are the avenue for stores to provide feedback back to the providers of those various support functions.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail