SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Retention and Workplace Environment
SUMMARY: The text discusses how the business environment, relationships with managers, and lack of training can impact employee satisfaction and retention, rather than strategic factors.
KEYWORDS: employee retention, workplace environment, organizational culture, leadership, employee experience
---

All of those are usually correct if we look at the key measures of the business. However, as I start to work with retailers to uncover the root cause of these strategic issues, we find the causes nearly always relate back to the business environment. For example, some of the rising costs in the business might be attributable to high  turnover creating the need to constantly recruit and train new . This would also impact on the level of experience and knowledge possessed by the  and would impact their sales ability.

I have read many exit interviews in an attempt to understand why  leave their organisations. Consistently, I have found that decisions to leave do not usually result from the strategic direction of the organisation but from the environment. I am yet to hear of anyone leaving their place of employment due to the organisation’s marketing plan or product strategy.

Typically I read comments like:

‘I didn’t get along with my manager’

‘I felt like a number’

‘My shifts were often cut at short notice, which impacted my income’

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

‘I didn’t feel rewarded and recognised for my work’

‘I was expected to achieve sales targets but didn’t receive the training to do so.’

What most impacts people’s level of happiness at work is the relationships they have in the workplace.

Commonly, underlying issues seem to relate to how  members feel about their leaders and, ultimately, that affects how they feel about the environment of the organisation.

Leaders are always responsible for the environment of the business they lead. In a recent report by Deloitte (Access economics: Soft skills for business success, Sydney 2017), it was highlighted that, if leaders want to elevate the employee experience, there is an increasing need for them to learn the softer skills of leadership, such as empathy and an understanding of the importance of relationships and connection.

Environment versus culture

When I speak to leaders of retail businesses, I have found it can be easy for them to confuse ‘environment’ with ‘culture’.

The environment is what often contains the intangible qualities of the business. It is about how people feel when they come to work. The leaders of the business create the environment, so the environment can only be as good as the leaders of the business.

The culture is the product and result of the environment. If a business has  a cultural problem, it will have an environment problem – and if a business has an environment problem then, ultimately, it has a leadership problem.

Chapter 4    Building the environment

Leaders create the environment and the environment creates the culture. The more effort put into the environment of your business, the better its culture will be.

The best results are achieved when the business environment and strategies are working together. A lot of the strategies that I will share in this book impact on the environment.

Building an environment of which everyone wants to be a part

Some of the steps I took when aiming at building an environment that became the catalyst for turning around results are:

a common vision (achieving alignment through storytelling)

building and valuing relationships

harnessing connection

creating ownership

valuing and appreciating people (all of them).

I will elaborate further on each of these steps on the pages following and also in Chapter 5, ‘Building strategies’, so that you can see how the business environment and business strategies work together.

A common vision (achieving alignment through storytelling)

I felt I needed to create a shared vision for my region and for what the region stood. For the vision to be something which everyone in my region could relate to, focus on and believe in, it also needed a compelling story to support it.

This vision and its back story would be crucial for setting the standards and behaviours I expected and that would build our success.

The vision supported by almost every other business I had seen was focused on the business itself and where that business was heading, but I felt that I needed to create something that was about people – a vision that was about working together to build something special. Our vision had to

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

be represented by more than just a bunch of statements that looked good on the wall. The following is the original unedited version of what became the shared vision of my region and the story behind it.

OUR VISION: ‘IT TAKES A VILLAGE TO RAISE A CHILD’

Chapter 4    Building the environment

The message of the African proverb that inspired this ‘vision’ means that an entire community of people must interact supportively with children for those children to grow and experience a safe and healthy environment.

This vision is about support for each other, not about a paternalistic dominant authoritarian leadership style. We are all adults, not even metaphoric children, but establishing a strong community support network helps us to all be better adults and meet our adult responsibilities.

This vision drove every decision we made in the region and created the standards we all came to expect of ourselves and of each other. Our vision was communicated, utilised and reinforced at every opportunity when we were together.

Building and valuing relationships

Initially, every one of my store visits was focused on building relationships. I felt this was imperative for turning around results.