SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of providing proper training and guidance to area leaders to help them become successful and empowering leaders.
KEYWORDS: area leadership, leadership development, business environment, employee engagement, empowering leadership
---

Chapter 13

Conclusion

I can’t help but think of all of the potentially successful area leaders who have stepped away from their roles as a result of not receiving the right training and guidance to adapt their approach to leadership – to start leading through influence, rather than through control.

From a business perspective, millions of dollars have been invested over the years in recruiting area leaders to their roles, but not much has been invested to develop them in the roles and set them up for success.

In my own coaching and training business and, now, in this book, I have attempted to share my own experience of being an area leader and of leading area leaders. I have found there are four general categories into which area leaders can be seen to fit, according to how they deliver on support and expectations (see Chapter 2).

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

‘Accommodating’ area leaders (providing high support and having low expectations)

‘Controlling’ area leaders (providing low support and having high expectations)

‘Stagnating’ area leaders (providing low support and having low expectations)

‘Empowering’ area leaders (providing high support and having high expectations)

Area leaders categorised as ‘empowering’ usually find a balance between the creation of a great working environment and implementation of strategies that achieve results. Becoming a leader of this type is the goal at which to aim. But ‘empowering’ area leaders don’t suddenly appear. Typically, they evolve through some experience of behaviours from the other three categories of area leadership, often starting as accommodating (high support, low expectations) and evolving through experience.

If you seek out the necessary support and specific training to become an ‘empowering’ area leader, you will come to see the resolution of many of the issues you face in your role.

If you are not achieving what you want to achieve in the role, I hope  you have found some answers in the pages of this book. But, from my own experience, the best place to start is focusing on improving the environment within your region. Building a great business starts with the business environment but, often, this aspect is the most neglected.

The role of every business leader should be to create an environment of which everyone wants to be a part; an environment in which people feel valued, appreciated and part of a community. To achieve this, there is a need for leaders to learn the softer skills of leadership, such as empathy and an understanding of the importance of relationships and connection.

All of the following are important in building a healthy business environment:

a common vision

building/valuing relationships

harnessing connection

Chapter 13 Conclusion

creating ownership

valuing and appreciating people (all of them).

When you have the right environment, implementing strategies becomes easier because your teams are happy, engaged and want the organisation to do well.

Key strategies I have found to work for an area leader are:

Strategy 1: Prioritise and manage your time (see Chapter 6) Allow time for the unexpected and don’t overschedule your time; avoid spending an unwarranted amount of time in stores; spend time planning, preparing and establishing key outcomes for store visits; and prioritise your activities.

Strategy 2: Maximise your store visits (see Chapter 7)

The best results occur when store managers are allowed to develop into true business leaders, taking spiritual and psychological ownership of their stores. Allow and encourage them to do this when you visit their stores.

Strategy 3: Deliver on your store visits (see Chapter 8)

It is the quality not the quantity of store visits that matters. Be prepared and organised; carefully schedule and prioritise the stores you need to visit; prepare a business folder for each store; be clear of purpose; and follow up on the implementation of strategies discussed at the visits.

Strategy 4: Engage your part-time workforce (see Chapter 9) Aim at making all , including the casual and part-time employees, feel valued, appreciated and cared about.

Strategy 5: Have meetings that matter (see Chapter 10)

Get the right information to the right people at the right time. Area leaders are responsible for ensuring all of the important information from various parts of the business reach the store managers so that they are all informed.

Strategy 6: Develop your business acumen (see Chapter 11)

Invest in all of your people;, value your shopfront, and realise that undering is costly. Realise the impact that the choices you make or don’t make can have on results.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Strategy 7: Develop your future leaders (see Chapter 12)

Succession planning and development of future leaders is important for the future of your organisation.

Results are what we are all in business to achieve. However, as much as we want to achieve those results, they are really the outcome of how well we manage to provide a happy and productive workplace environment and how well we can implement our strategies.

Whether your has a focus on developing area leaders or not, you can take responsibility for your own development. I have always focused on my own personal and professional development,

Regardless of your budget there is a lot you can do to develop yourself as a business leader, such as: read books (like this one), listen to podcasts, find mentors within your own organisation, engage a leadership coach or seek suitable training from an expert in the specific skills you want to development.

This book was designed as a practical guide, containing lots of strategies to help you. It might be helpful to go back and reread the whole book or to reread certain sections containing the information on which you want to focus. If you have taken the opportunity to fill in your ‘Light bulbs’ and ‘Actions’ at the end of the chapters throughout this book, you already have some specific areas to reflect on and strategies to implement.