SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses a system for managing and organizing store visits, including the use of business folders and exercise books to track and follow up on store information.
KEYWORDS: store visits, business folders, store management, store information, scheduling
---

This system will enable you to have more focused store visits and to keep all of your information in the one place. It will also make it easier to follow up whether  have enacted suggestions made during your visit.

I suggest you purchase two good quality display books for each store in your region. If there are ten stores you will buy twenty folders. Invest in the ones that have twenty plastic pockets in which you can insert documents and that allow you to insert a page into the front cover. These should each cost you $7.00, or less, from major stationery suppliers.

I call these ‘business folders’. For each store, one of the business folders you purchase is for you and the other is for the store manager. Each business folder becomes the place for all of the information you gather about one store to be filed. Information, such as the store budget, the store business plan, local store marketing plans, notes from one-on-ones and any other business information should be kept in a store’s business folder.

This means that you have one folder for each store and each store manager also has her/his own folder. Each store manager should use her/his business folder for the same purpose as you use your folder; to store all the business information pertaining to the store.

Chapter 8     Strategy 3 Deliver on your store  visits

In addition, I suggest purchasing two A4 exercise books for each store. Again, this is one book per store for you and one for each of the store managers. The book for each store should be kept in your business folder for that store. These books are where you make notes from store visits, from discussions with store managers and assistant store managers, and from one-on-ones with , along with any other notes you might make relating to individual stores.

When you conduct your store visits, you and the store manager should both use your business folder for reference and to make further notes.

Use of these folders creates a more professional business mindset, not only for an area leader but also for store managers, and it makes following up much easier for you.

Scheduling your store visits

The way you schedule your store visits does require some thought. There are a number of ways to plan your schedule.

Store visits are often scheduled with the main consideration being geography and proximity, which makes sense if your goal is to spend the least time driving from store to store. But it would be more effective and efficient to schedule your visits based on where you are needed most.

How you schedule your store visits should be determined by the specific situation of each of your stores, such as the level of experience of the store manager, the level of experience of the in-store team and the store’s recent results. New stores can sometimes require more of your focus than established stores.

The location of the stores (regional or metropolitan) will also determine how you schedule your visits. Visits to regional stores sometimes need to be scheduled based on geography if the visits require significant time on the road. Regional stores often receive fewer visits due to their location, which means those visits require even more time and planning so you make the most of your time when you are there.

What I have found works best is to start by prioritising stores into categories A, B and C, as described under the headings on the next page.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

PRIORITY A STORES

Priority A stores require a high level of support for a variety of reasons, which may include the following.

The store might have a new store manager.

The store might have a manager that isn’t performing to expectations.

The store temporarily might not have a store manager.

The store might be a new store that has recently opened.

PRIORITY B STORES

Priority B stores require less support than Priority A stores. These are the stores that:

have a good level of leadership experience

maintain very good results

perform to expectations

have a settled team.

PRIORITY C STORES

Priority C stores perform very well. They are usually your ‘blue chip’ stores. They will:

often be located in major shopping centres

have managers with a high level of leadership experience

be able to maintain or exceed expectations

be busy stores, usually trading seven days per week.

categorising stores according to the criteria above works very well. From your own experience, you might wish to add some of your own criteria to these lists as well.

You know best what level of support each of your stores requires, so you should be well-equipped to allocate your stores to A, B or C priority.

Chapter 8     Strategy 3 Deliver on your store  visits

Spend some time considering the stores you oversee then, based on the criteria I have just provided for Priority A, Priority B and Priority C stores, list each of them in the appropriate column of the table below.

This table is available for you to copy from my website: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

Scheduling your store visits for the month

Once you have listed your stores and they each have been assigned a priority, plan your store visits for the month, in the following order.

Priority A stores

Priority B stores

Priority A stores (again)

Priority C stores

Naturally, you will schedule your Priority A stores as your first visits for the month. These visits will be at the start of the month, which is a great time to set the stores’ daily, weekly and monthly goals and ensure they have a plan in place with which you can assist and that you are able to follow up.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail