SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the role and challenges faced by area leaders in the retail industry, including managing multiple stores, competing priorities, and the need for a different skillset compared to store managers.
KEYWORDS: area leader, retail management, store operations, leadership skills, challenges
---

I encourage you to make use of those two pages in each chapter, so that you can start to create your own toolkit of ideas and actions.

xvii

Chapter 1

The role of the area leader

For the purpose of this book, I will use the term ‘area leader’ to refer to an employee whose role it is to oversee several retail outlets within an organisation. Different may use different names to refer to the same role: ‘; ‘regional leader’; or ‘cluster manager’, to name a few.

The number of stores a person who is employed in this role will oversee varies from, as does the level of responsibility expected of the role within the organisation. Regardless of their title and level of responsibility, the fundamental role of in this position will be similar,

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

You may have been to the circus and watched clowns who have mastered the art of keeping plates spinning in the air on sticks, concentrating intensely and focusing on each of the plates, careful not to let one of them fall and break. This could describe what Mary is attempting to do!

all of the highs and lows of leading in retail and that clown, trying to keep all the plates spinning.

I am sure, if you are an area leader, you too can relate to the difficulties faced by the clown. Do you have days where you feel as though you are

Chapter 1    The role of the area leader

working very hard to keep all of those ‘plates’ spinning? Are you rushing from store to store, juggling competing priorities, trying to meet the needs of all of your stores, managing your costs, and all while working hard to achieve sales targets? You can probably even see the funny side of the way you are overstretching yourself if you are able to visualise an image of yourself spinning plates.

training

one-on-one discussions rosters

store visits

recruitment

meetings

merchandising

marketing

sales

stock control

cost control

The truth is you are probably working longer hours than you should to get everything done and keep everything on track. Just as it would be impossible for the clown to keep the plates spinning for days and days, it is impossible for an area leader to keep on top of everything, unless she or he finds a better way to do the job and deliver results.

As support  are reduced and training budgets squeezed, area leaders are required to shoulder more responsibility than ever before. They are being given more tasks and responsibilities to perform while still under pressure to achieve their expected budgets.

The most successful store managers are often promoted to area leader roles, yet the leadership style and skillset required for a successful area leader are different from those of a successful store manager.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

A store manager works in the same location every day, managing a frontline team made up of people who also work in the same environment every day. A store manager is able to build relationships with  quickly and, being very familiar with the circumstances and work environment, is able to make decisions on the spot and in the moment, to assert immediate control over the situations arising within the store.

By contrast, an area leader works across multiple locations, each representing a different environment. An area leader needs to lead from a position of influence, by motivating and coaching the next tier down in the hierarchy of leaders at each of the stores which she or he visits. This requires a stronger leadership style than is required by a store manager. One area leader described the change from store manager to area leader as being like stepping up from primary school to secondary school where you have to think more independently and make more decisions of your own.

Once we acknowledge the difference between the roles of store manager and area leader, we can appreciate the need for a shift in mindset when taking on the role of area leader, to broader thinking and a focus on developing new skills and new ways of working. Even the most successful store managers need to appreciate the need for a change, to leading through influence rather than through control, which will be the key to success if they are offered and accept area leader roles.

If you have been a successful store manager and were able to build a great team, lead a good business and deliver great sales results, you should have developed the confidence and credibility to be a successful area leader. But you do need to recognise that the role of an area leader requires a unique set of skills – skills that are not learnt from being a store manager and that need to be taught and developed.

When you come to appreciate the differences between the store manager and area leader roles and become open and adaptable to learning the necessary new skills, you will quickly build confidence in your new role and in your ability to achieve the results to which you aspire.

If you read the respective job descriptions of a store manager and an area leader, you will realise that both roles work towards achieving the same outcomes. Typically, both job descriptions will include the following requirements.

Chapter 1    The role of the area leader

Lead, motivate and coach a group of people.

Maximise financial performance and deliver budgeted results.

Ensure an outstanding customer experience.

Oversee day-to-day operations.

Ensure that operational and brand standards are met.

However, the way store managers and area leaders go about the delivery of these requirements is very different and, as I mentioned earlier, each relies on a different set of skills and a different leadership style.

Leadership styles necessary for store managers and area leaders

Store manager	Area leader