SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for effectively conducting one-on-one meetings with store managers and employees during store visits to improve regional performance.
KEYWORDS: store visits, one-on-one meetings, retail management, employee development, performance improvement
---

I understand that, due to ing levels, off-site meetings of this kind might present a challenge but, if the visit is planned well in advance, plenty of notice is given and the visits occur infrequently, ing levels should be able to be addressed to accommodate your visit.

On the day you are planning to visit ing levels might be inadequate, meaning that the  with whom you want to meet are not free. I suggest that you organise visits on a day when ing levels are not an issue. It is pointless visiting a store if you can’t spend quality uninterrupted time with the store manager, or with anyone else with whom you want a one-on-one discussion.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Importantly, part of your store visit should also be devoted to spending time with the assistant store manager. This meeting should be an abridged version of your discussion with the store manager. Meeting in this way with assistant store managers will help you to build relationships with them and provide one-on-one support for their development as future leaders.

If there is part-time or casual  working on the day of your visit, ensure you spend time with them also –

Conducting your one-on-ones

Your one-on-one discussions with your store managers are possibly the best opportunity you will have to ensure the agreed strategies to improve your region’s results are being implemented. Remember, your goal should be to elevate the quality of your one-on-ones so that the need for you to visit stores frequently is reduced. Having positive and focused one-on-ones is also the best way to build trusting relationships with your store managers and with all  members.

Here are some tips to help you with the effectiveness of your one-on-ones.

AVOID ANY INTERRUPTIONS

Be genuinely interested and attentive during one-on-ones with store managers. Just as you have spent time preparing for the discussion, so have they.

Your mindset for any one-on-one, with store managers or , needs to be the same as your mindset would be for a business meeting. This means putting away your mobile phone or, if you must keep it near you, turning the ringtone down and avoiding answering any calls, if you can. Your store managers will really appreciate having your undivided attention.

As much as we might want to get to know our , it is important that the time spent together in one-on-one discussions is meaningful and businesslike. Don’t be distracted by fluffy conversation about your dog, or what you watched on television the previous night. This is just a waste of valuable time ave this kind of informal chit chat for when I first arrive in a store and greet the team, or as we are walking to the coffee shop for a one-on-one.

Chapter 8     Strategy 3 Deliver on your store  visits

BE CLEAR OF PURPOSE

Once we sit to begin our discussion, I like to start by stating what  hope to achieve from our discussion time together. At the beginning of the discussion, always ask the store manager or  member what they hope to achieve from it too.

Remember, any one-on-one is a two-way conversation and you need to ensure that, as well as your desired outcomes for the meeting being achieved, the desired outcomes of the individual with whom you are meeting are also achieved.

a template for one-on-ones. This help stay on track and ensured  leave the store after the visit having forgotten to discuss something that  needed to cover. While having a template does help you keep on track, it is important to be mindful that you also ensure that your one-on-ones don’t feel like interviews or interrogations.

On the next page is a sample template that you can use for your one-on- ones or that might be helpful in assisting you to design your own.

se paper and pen to make notes because  devices like iPads impersonal and distracting. Just remember that the store manager will have done preparation for your store visit and, like you, should have a business folder containing information and topics for discussion (see where business folders are discussed earlier in this chapter).

From a single discussion, restrict the number of actions or strategies record and plan to implement just two or three. One strategy, well implemented, can sometimes be better than three which have not been carried out well.

Simply use recommendation of limiting the number of activities and strategies to be carried out as a result of each discussion as a guide and base your own expectations on each store’s results and the level of experience of each store manager. Based on the discussion, the area leader and store manager might both have actions to follow up, but some area leaders to have a very long ‘To do’ list at the end of a visit. This is not what is intended. The purpose of one-on-one discussions of this kind is to empower the store manager to run the store, with your support. Be careful that you do not fall into the habit of stepping in as pseudo store manager and taking over the role.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

This table is available for you to copy from my website: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

Chapter 8     Strategy 3 Deliver on your store  visits

ne-on-ones can cover a range of things that can’t always be listed or recorded on a template. However, if you are able to use the template provided on the previous page as a guide and adapt it to your own purposes, it will make a difference to the quality of your store visits.

Following up your store visits