SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: This text discusses how 'accommodating' area leaders can transition to become 'empowering' leaders through mentoring, training, and a shift in mindset.
KEYWORDS: area leadership, empowering leadership, leadership development, mentoring, mindset change
---

HOW ‘ACCOMMODATING’ AREA LEADERS CAN BECOME ‘EMPOWERING’ AREA LEADERS

At the same point ‘accommodating’ area leaders find themselves dealing with the frustration that could lead them to become ‘controlling’ area leaders, they could also take the path of moving from the ‘accommodating’ category of area leaders to the ‘empowering’ category.

The decision to find ways to move from ‘accommodating’ to ‘empowering’ usually results from receiving helpful, honest feedback from a leader or mentor, which assists the area leaders to find a balance between the support given to their stores and the expectations they have for them. Recognising there is a need to change their mindsets and build their own self-esteem and confidence in their abilities often results from engaging a mentor or receiving supportive leadership from their workplace leader. This change of mindset all that is required for an ‘accommodating’ area leader to start to become an ‘empowering’ one.

Chapter 2     The four categories of  area leaders

HOW ‘ACCOMMODATING’ AREA LEADERS CAN BECOME ‘STAGNATING’ AREA LEADERS

It is at the point when a region is not achieving results that an area leader could lose confidence in his/her ability, becoming overwhelmed with the role and feeling that the rewards are not worth the effort being made. An area leader in this position could slip from being an ‘accommodating’ area leader to being a ‘stagnating’ one. This is a point at which the area leader could consider stepping down from the role or leaving the organisation altogether.

It is a real shame when this happens because the circumstances are avoidable. With specific  training  and  mentoring, and  a  shift  in  mindset, a disillusioned area leader can make the transition to a more productive category of area leader and find ways to be successful.

The area leader category checklist

As you read through some of the behaviours displayed by the four categories of area leaders, I am sure you were able to identify with some of them. You may have even experienced moving through some of the categories throughout your own journey as an area leader.

On the following pages is a checklist aimed at helping you to identify which type of area leader category you are leading from. Once you have completed the checklist, the category with the most ticks will indicate the category that best describes your area leadership. This also will indicate the areas on which you need to focus in order to move into the ‘empowering’ category of area leader.

If you seek the support and specific training necessary for you to become an ‘empowering’ area leader, you will come to see the resolution of many  of your area leader issues, as well as an increase in  engagement and retention – and you will feel a genuine sense of reward for effort.

The more you can reach out to mentors and find ways to develop your leadership capabilities, the quicker you can grow and move towards being the best area leader you can be. Not only will you achieve better results, you will remain motivated to stay invested in your region and its people.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Area leader category checklist

Put a tick in the column provided beside each of the descriptions you think applies to you.

(Continued on next page)

Chapter 2     The four categories of  area leaders

21

Type here

The four categories of area leaders:

Light bulbs

22

Type here

The four categories of area leaders:

Actions

23

Chapter 3

The performance pyramid

I was very fortunate to travel to Egypt. Like most tourists, I was excited to visit the Pyramids of Giza. The Giza pyramids  were  built  in 3000 BCE. Historical analysis tells us that they took 85 years to build. It is incredible that, thousands of years later, they are still standing in all their magnificence. But the reason they are still standing is that they were built on very strong foundations – a solid limestone rock plateau under the sand, with solid limestone and granite blocks used for the construction. The Egyptians knew the pyramid shape to be stable and strong and it is the strong foundations and the use of that strong stable shape for construction that has kept the pyramids standing to this day.

I will never forget seeing the pyramids for the first time and the profound effect it had on me.

I see the leading of great teams in business as being very similar to the building of a pyramid.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

The foundation of a business needs to be built by focusing on the business first. It is the that provides the foundation for the strategy that will then be formulated. The strength of the business has a great impact on how well a business strategy can be designed and implemented. Results are achieved based on the success of the  foundation as well as on the strategy implemented.

Let’s look at each of the layers of the performance ‘pyramid’ in more detail.

The

In business, or in any aspect of life, great teams must be built on stable strong foundations. In retail business, these foundations are part of what  call the business ‘’.

The ‘’ of any team or business is often intangible – something that you can feel, but you can’t touch or quantify. It might be hard to describe or explain but, if you pay attention when asking someone what they love about their job, the answer usually relates to the. It will most likely include a description of how they feel about the organisation and the leader for whom they work.

Chapter 3    The  performance pyramid

I am convinced that building a great business must start with the businessbut, often, this aspect is the most neglected. If you want

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail