SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Leadership
SUMMARY: The text outlines the roles and responsibilities of state leaders and store managers in a retail organization, as well as the overall business strategy and support provided by area leaders.
KEYWORDS: Retail Leadership, State Leaders, Store Managers, Business Strategy, Area Leaders
---

state leader	The employee who oversees and leads the area leaders and whose region includes all the smaller regions in a state. These leaders are responsible for a range of activities, including  education, professional development, policy, advocacy, communication, marketing, sponsorship, finance and administration.

store manager	the employee in a managerial role in a store,

who is responsible for  and their wellbeing; presentation of advertising and store displays; recruitment, performance management and workplace scheduling; and product management, including ordering, receiving, and price changes

strategy	a summary of how the organisation will achieve its goals, meet the expectations of its customers and sustain a competitive advantage in the marketplace

support (provided by area leaders)

working on business (WOB) days

delivery to store managers of the tools and training they require to do their jobs and deliver on expectations

contrasting with working in business days, these are days spent planning and reflecting (rather than working in the field)

About the author

Alison Crabb, founder and principle of Alison Crabb Consulting, has worked with some of Australia’s most recognised and successful retailers for more than 30 years. Her career in the retail industry began as a travel consultant with the Flight Centre Travel Group, where her promotion first to store manager and then to an area leadership role was to eventually see her spend eight years as a global leader in a highly competitive and challenging retail environment.

Through these years of learning, development and improvement, Alison continued to push the boundaries and drive improvement year on year, seeing profit grow from $18 million to $49 million. The culture of excellence Alison was instrumental in building at Flight Centre during her years of leadership led to her division being the most profitable division globally for eight consecutive years. She achieved unprecedented results working with more than 1200  across more than 200 retail outlets, generating

$1.2 billion in sales annually.

Alison’s achievements were recognised when she was awarded Flight Centre’s Directors’ Award for Global Outstanding Achievement in 2010. She was also a finalist in the Telstra Businesswoman of the Year Award in 2012.

Since leaving Flight Centre to begin her own retail consulting business, Alison has worked in a coaching and consultancy role with some of Australia’s leading retail businesses, developing and lifting their leadership to achieve new business heights. Throughout her career, Alison’s business reputation has been built on knowledge, experience, trust and success.

Alison Crabb is recognised by many to be the industry’s leading expert on retail leadership. In her consultancy role with Alison Crabb Consulting, Alison has designed a unique, refreshing, personalised and highly engaging, retail-centric approach to leadership training and development. Her 30 years of experience in consumer led retail has provided her with invaluable insights into the factors influencing retail success and the keys to achieving and delivering them.

For more details, visit:	www.alisoncrabb.com.au

or email Alison:	alison@alisoncrabb.com.au