SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of store visits, KPIs, and store manager preparation to improve retail business performance.
KEYWORDS: store visits, KPIs, store manager preparation, retail store management, business performance
---

i levels and rosters are a key focus for most retailers and each of your stores will have different  requirements. Therefore, designing a standard KPI template to help you assess how each store is tracking and what each store needs will help you to have clear and focused store visits.

Store visit preparation sheet

Once you have a clear impression of each store and its results, you need to ask yourself:

‘What do I want to achieve from visiting this store?’

‘What do I need to walk away from the store visit having achieved?’

‘What do I need the store manager to know/achieve?’

To help with achieving your desired outcomes, I recommend you design a ‘Store visit preparation’ template to help you prepare to cover everything you want to cover during the store visit. This template for the store visit will help you stay on track and ensure you are thorough in your approach, so you cover everything required.

I preferred to spend time on Mondays completing the templates for my week of visits ahead and planning the visits for the week.

On the next page is a sample template you might like to use as a guide for designing your own.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

STORE MANAGER PREPARATION

I am passionate about everyone in retail stepping up, or ‘levelling up’ – to put it in video gaming parlance. By this I mean to progress to the next  level. For this to happen area leaders need to do their jobs and allow store managers to do theirs and grow in their roles.

It is important that the two roles of area leader and store manager are not confused. Often I see area leaders taking on some of the responsibilities of store managers which, as I described earlier, can become a source of frustration for the area leaders and often leaves the store managers feeling more like caretakers and less like leaders.

If we want our store managers to improve their business acumen and to take more ownership of their results, this starts with teaching them what the key drivers of their business are and with being transparent in regard to their results. We need to allow store managers to feel like true business leaders, having ownership of their results and the ability to personally impact them.

Chapter 8     Strategy 3 Deliver on your store  visits

I recommend that you create another template for each store manager to complete prior to your visit to her/his store. This template should include somewhere for store managers to record the KPIs for their stores as well as questions to consider about their businesses.

Each store manager should complete their preparation sheet prior to your visit so they are clear about what they hope to achieve from your visit.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

MANAGING BRAND STANDARDS

. The brand is the way customers recognise and experience the business. It can include marketing material, advertising, a logo, the way  presents to customers, and the appearance of shopfronts and retail premises. The way merchandise is displayed is a large part of this. In-season stock needs to be displayed in a prominent place and stores need to be generally well presented.

It is the area leader’s responsibility to ensure that stores meet brand requirements, but it is the store manager’s responsibility to ensure the ongoing upholding and maintenance of brand standards.

This checklist should be completed by the store manager prior to the area leader’s visit so that the area leader can sign off on it if the store fulfils all the requirements, or can take care of anything that needs addressing if it doesn’t.

This will mean the store manager takes responsibility for meeting brand standards and it will save you time during your visit.

Tools for your visit

If you have followed the suggestions, you will now have:

a key performance indicators (KPIs) template

a store visit preparation sheet

a business folder for each store. Each store manager will also have:

a store manager preparation sheet

a brand standards checklist

a business folder for her/his own store.

If you design and utilise these tools, you will improve the quality of your store visits and the outcomes achieved by them.

Chapter 8     Strategy 3 Deliver on your store  visits

Have a consistent focus

It is important not to focus on too many strategies at once.

Your store manager meeting, held at the start of each month, should be the vehicle to drive the strategy for your region (see Chapter 10). On your store visits, you can then follow up on the discussion and decisions from the meeting, helping and supporting store managers with their implementation of the strategy.

When you have a well thought out, well-planned monthly store manager meeting, your store visits are able to reflect and reinforce the focus from the meeting and any key strategies moving forward.

If your store manager meeting highlighted an upcoming promotion, that should be followed up during your store visit.

Executing your store visits

Once you have done the planning, it is time to visit your stores.

The goal is for your visits to be well-planned and well-prepared, so that you don’t need to visit every store often. Preparation and planning will mean that you will spend more quality time in each store and each visit will usually take half the day, or a maximum of three hours.

I prefer for one-on-ones with store managers to take place away from the store. A local coffee shop is usually a good place to sit and focus, with no distractions.

Store managers appreciate receiving individual attention and this helps build strong trusting relationships with them.

I understand that, due to ing levels, off-site meetings of this kind might present a challenge but, if the visit is planned well in advance, plenty of notice is given and the visits occur infrequently, ing levels should be able to be addressed to accommodate your visit.