SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Management Succession Planning
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of succession planning and developing future leaders in retail store management to ensure effective store operations and avoid issues like lack of focus on customers, brand standards, and sales targets.
KEYWORDS: succession planning, retail management, store managers, area leaders, leadership development
---

When a store is operating without an onsite leader this can result in: a lack of focus on customers; brand standards not being upheld; no one being held accountable for working towards achieving sales budgets; and difficulty managing rosters. Ultimately the area leader will be required to spend more time in that store, managing the day-to-day activities usually carried out by the store manager. This results in the area leader having less time for her/his other stores.

The root cause of a lack of effective store managers is a lack of succession planning and development of future leaders.

Usually the ascension of store managers and area leaders looks like this:

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

The key to a happy life as an area leader is for all stores in your region to have store managers who are motivated and engaged. The only way to manage this is to have a consistent focus on succession planning and the development of future leaders. important strateg and I emphasise this now when I am coaching or working with a group of area leaders. Completing a health check of where potential leaders currently are in their development and putting a plan in place to continue to develop them is a must.

Without focusing on succession planning and developing future leaders, when a vacancy arises you could be forced to fill store manager roles with unsuitable or inexperienced people. Some of those people might have never even wanted to be leaders, so will lack the drive and motivation for the roles. Appointing these people to store manager roles might solve immediate ing problems but it does create the potential for other problems to arise in the future.

Without a focus on succession planning and developing future leaders, you might also be forced to recruit externally for store managers, which is not only costly but also time-consuming. Your valuable time will be taken up by recruiting and interviewing, as well as inducting the new recruits and training them on business systems, product knowledge and brand standards. Ideally, to avoid this, you want store managers to be appointed from within the organisation. This also sends a positive message to the  in your region that they can have a career in leadership if they desire.

If you focus long-term on a succession plan and the development of future leaders this can all be avoided.

Some strategies that might help you are outlined in the remainder of  this chapter.

The role of the assistant store manager

Assistant store managers play an important role in supporting the store manager, but they play an even more important role for the area leader. A key to ensuring you have new store managers ready to step up is to ensure you have a team of competent assistant store managers in place.

Chapter 12  Strategy 7 Develop your future leaders

Too often, assistant store managers are appointed without really understanding their roles. Yes, they are meant to support store managers but, just as importantly, their role represents an apprenticeship for them to become future store managers themselves.

If you have a team of assistant store managers who do not have the desire to be store managers, this will cause you problems when you need to fill store manager roles. So, when you are recruiting assistant store managers, you must ensure that a large proportion of the people you appoint want to lead their own stores. This matter needs to be addressed and understood during the recruitment process. It is a crucial strategy that, when carried out well, makes succession planning easy.

Identifying bright, keen and enthusiastic  in the early days of them joining your region means you are able to create a leadership pathway     for them. They can see, from their early days, they have a future in your business. The most successful store managers have usually developed some of their skills by spending time as assistant store managers.

Developing your assistant store managers

The time and money you invest in developing your assistant store managers will pay dividends down the track. You might invest in quarterly training sessions; or in them attending focus groups; or in providing specific projects for which they are responsible, such as training a new  member or driving promotion of a particular product, etc.

The best time for developing and inspiring this important group of future leaders is during your store visits – spending time with them, getting to know them, career planning with them one-on-one and giving them a sense that their role is important. When you start to give their important role more focus in this way, more people will begin to see it as an attractive and valued role in the business and will aspire to take it on.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Having multiple assistant store managers

particularly busy, trading seven days a week. These are sometimes known as ‘flagship’ stores. These stores require more , juggling  multiple  shifts,  and  provide  an  opportunity  to have multiple assistant store managers who can lead the way in the stores and learn the ropes at the same time – fulfilling their apprenticeship. Someare reluctant to adopt this approach because see it     as a cost, but I feel it is far more costly to fail to have a solid succession and development plan. The more grounding that can be given to assistant store managers as leaders, the better it is for the business long-term.

126

Type here

Strategy 7 Develop your future leaders:

Light bulbs

127

Type here

Strategy 7 Develop your future leaders:

Actions

128

Chapter 13

Conclusion

I can’t help but think of all of the potentially successful area leaders who have stepped away from their roles as a result of not receiving the right training and guidance to adapt their approach to leadership – to start leading through influence, rather than through control.