SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Leadership Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the different roles and responsibilities of area leaders in retail, emphasizing the importance of setting clear expectations and providing adequate support to store managers.
KEYWORDS: area leaders, retail management, expectations, support, leadership roles
---

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

To your stores, as an area leader, you are the face of the organisation’s brand and you represent to them all facets of the business. Your attitude, body language, mindset and choices matter. What you model in your own behaviour will be the behaviour that is adopted and displayed by the personnel in your stores.

Area leaders assume a lot of different roles within the retail landscape: leader; motivator; problem solver; recruiter; mentor; and merchandiser – sometimes juggling several of these roles simultaneously (or spinning  those plates)!

Every area leader wants to do a great job for the organisation but all of them can easily lose sight of their respective roles and, with the best of intentions, take on the duties of the store managers of the stores they visit., I have seen this happen for a variety of reasons.

Sometimes it is because they genuinely want to help and support the store managers with their roles.

They may have a mindset that they can best support the store manager by taking this approach.

Maybe they are sure of their own role, or how it enables them to make a difference so, having come from store manager roles themselves, they revert to what they know and with which they are most comfortable.

Expectations and support

From dealing with the hundreds of area leaders I have led and with whom I have worked, I have come to realise that area leaders require a well- developed capacity for providing to their store personnel what are best described as ‘expectations’ and ‘support’.

Expectations: Ensuring that everyone knows what is expected of them in their roles. Area leaders should have a clear insight into what they expect of stores and personnel, and this needs to be clearly communicated to store managers and understood by them. Area leaders should also know what store managers expect from them.

Chapter 2     The four categories of  area leaders

Support: Area leaders need to provide store managers with the tools and training for them to be able to deliver on what is expected of them. Store managers need to feel they have everything they require to do their jobs and to deliver on those expectations.

There is definitely a correlation between the results achieved and how well an area leader has been able to convey expectations and provide the support necessary for them to be met.

I have found the differences in behaviour between area leaders can best be described using the four categories illustrated in the diagram below. As you read through each of the four categories and the behaviours and results listed in each region of the diagram you will probably be able to identify which description bears the most resemblance to your approach and which quadrant of the diagram you are leading from yourself.

Types of Area Leaders

High expectations

High support

Low support

Low expectations

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Defining area leaders by the support and expectations provided

THE ‘ACCOMMODATING’ AREA LEADER (HIGH SUPPORT AND LOW EXPECTATIONS)

An area leader categorised as ‘accommodating’ will be more focused on the environment of the stores in the region rather than on strategies.

Leaders from this category want to do a great job and want to ensure the personnel in their stores

feel well supported. However, to achieve this, these area leaders often create additional work for themselves and, as a result, work longer hours to get the job done.

These area leaders often have a need to be liked and to please the people with whom they deal. As a result, they often find it difficult to hold store managers accountable for shortfalls in the achievement of budget expectations, fearing that doing so would damage their  relationship with them.

They want to feel as though they are supporting their stores and, as a result, will often take on too much responsibility – taking on tasks and roles that should be performed by the store managers. They become the ‘fixer’ for everything and find it difficult to deflect responsibility back to the store managers where it belongs.

Store visits are focused more on relationships with the  rather than on store results. These area leaders have a need for team harmony and they struggle to make difficult decisions for fear of being unpopular.

Many area leaders new to the role will display these types of  attitudes   and behaviours. If area leaders from this category stay like this for too  long, it may cause frustration – not only for the area leader but also for the store managers.

Typical symptoms of ‘accommodating’ area leaders might be:

difficulty holding their stores accountable for shortfalls in results and standards

struggling to have honest conversations with store leaders and

Chapter 2     The four categories of  area leaders

inability to communicate clear expectations

lack of adherence to brand standards by stores

retention of underperforming  and leaders.

The stores overseen by these area leaders are often nice places to work but they underperform in regard to budget projections and ow standards are often accepted.

Store managers who are high achievers will often feel frustrated by how little their area leaders expect of them and the lack of higher targets for which to aim.

THE ‘CONTROLLING’ AREA LEADER

(LOW SUPPORT AND HIGH EXPECTATIONS)

An area leader categorised as ‘controlling’ will be more focused on results rather than store environments.

Leaders from this category will probably feel discouraged when stores in their region are not achieving their budget projections.