SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Engagement
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies to engage and communicate effectively with a part-time retail workforce, such as conducting meetings, providing information, and using store visits.
KEYWORDS: part-time workforce, communication, engagement, area leaders, store managers
---

99

Type here

Strategy 4 Engage your part-time workforce:

Light bulbs

100

Type here

Strategy 4 Engage your part-time workforce:

Actions

101

Chapter 10

Have meetings that matter

Communication

If you have ever baked a cake, you will be familiar with most recipes instructing you to sift all of the dry ingredients together through a sieve to combine them thoroughly and get rid of the unpleasant lumpy bits. Whether the recipe requires flour, castor sugar, salt, baking powder, baking soda, cocoa or other dry powdered ingredients, all of those ingredients are placed into the top of the sieve, are sifted together and combined to fall lightly and effortlessly through the sieve.

When it comes to communication within an organisation,the role of the area leader as equivalent to the part played by the sieve when baking.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Area leaders are responsible for ensuring all of the important information from various parts of the business and support functions, such as marketing, merchandising, product, technology and finance, are sifted together and reach the store managers so that they are all informed. Being the organisation’s sieves means area leaders need to understand the responsibility they have to their store managers to ensure they pass on to them all the information they need to know while filtering out the ‘lumpy bits’. The ‘lumpy bits’ that are left behind and not filtered through to the store managers will be those pieces of information that may not be necessary or appropriate for them to know (for example, highly sensitive information).

The role of area leader requires you to lead with influence, so the way you communicate to get the right information to the right people at the right time is crucial. Area leaders are the most important cogs in the organisation’s wheel. They are the people in a leadership role who have the most contact with stores and, often, have the most influence.

Changes to products and systems and implementation of those changes will be a significant part of your role and, if you do that well, managing expectations and seamlessly implementing new systems, you will save yourself a lot of time that would otherwise be spent putting out spot fires and solving problems.

The sieve system from area leaders to store managers should also operate in the other direction, from area leaders to those providing support and business functions for the stores. Area leaders need to provide important feedback from their stores to their own leadership, combining and communicating information from the stores that will assist with evaluation of current strategies and formulation of possible future strategies.

Store visits will always provide the best vehicle for you to communicate with the store manager and in-store team members (see Chapter 8), however, there are other opportunities for the people of your region to connect and communicate.

If you want to keep all of your  engaged and updated regarding important information affecting the business, store managers need to fully appreciate the important role they play when it comes to communication.

Chapter 10  Strategy 5 Have meetings that matter

There should also be an expectation that the sieve model, from  area  leader to store manager, continues so the information is sifted down the chain again, from the store manager to the rest of the in-store team – so that everyone in the business receives and understands all the important information. This could be achieved by  store  managers  having  daily  team updates.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Meetings that matter

Store manager meetings

Having well-planned and well-executed monthly store manager meetings at the start of each month is an important strategy for delivering improved results. I do understand that making this happen can be challenging, due to time spent in planning for the meetings and store managers needing to take time away from their stores, but I do believe that store manager meetings must happen every month, without exception.

This suggestion will not be popular with some. There will be resistance based on the store managers’ time away from their stores and

Chapter 10  Strategy 5 Have meetings that matter

the cost to the business in extra wages for  to cover their absence, but I am convinced that this practice can have the greatest positive impact on results.

. As humans we have a need to feel connected and part of something bigger than our day-to-day work. Monthly store manager meetings help achieve this.

At monthly meetings some of the best shared, relationships are built and problems are solved. When store managers feel connected, they will call on each other to ask for and offer advice which will mean that not every question will need to be answered and not every problem will need to be solved by you as their area leader.

At monthly meetings, store managers can reflect on the month that was, celebrate successes, address disappointments and move on, to set goals for the new month. Once they have worked together to set their goals as a region and have decided how each individual store will contribute to those goals, you can spend time working with them all together to formulate strategies that will assist in delivering each goal that has been agreed upon for the

Without a doubt, the three hours each month spent having a store manager meeting were always my most crucial hours of the month. Putting time and effort into them was time well spent.

make notes throughout the month and, at the end of the month, plan the next month’s store manager meeting. reflect on:

‘With what do I want my store managers to walk away from this meeting?’

‘On what do I need to focus to achieve this?’

‘What preparation do I need to do for the meeting?’

‘What preparation do my store managers need to do for the meeting?’

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail