SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Store Management Meetings
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of monthly store manager meetings and assistant store manager meetings in implementing new systems, communicating initiatives, and developing future leaders.
KEYWORDS: store manager meetings, assistant store manager meetings, leadership development, communication, implementation
---

‘On what do I need to focus to achieve this?’

‘What preparation do I need to do for the meeting?’

‘What preparation do my store managers need to do for the meeting?’

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Your monthly store manager meetings also provide you with your best opportunity to implement new systems and strategies, and to communicate important product and marketing initiatives. Various head office/support  can attend the meetings and present any necessary information to all the store managers from the region at once, which is a far more efficient use of their time. Store managers who might have the same questions will have them all answered at once and all the information will be better communicated to them, which will improve implementation.

Assistant store manager meetings

If you are looking for ways to improve your succession planning and development of future leaders (see Chapter 12), assistant store manager meetings can play an important role in helping you to recognise future leaders. Appointment of sales  to future leadership roles might be based on informal assessments made at these meetings.

The meetings provide an opportunity to communicate strategies consistent with those of the whole business and consistent with what you are communicating to your store managers. Having these meetings with assistant store managers highlights to them that you value them and that you are invested in their development. You will be amazed at the level of discretionary effort you get from your assistant store managers when they feel valued.

Assistant store manager meetings can be used as training and leadership development sessions. They are a great way to identify when assistant managers are ready to step up and lead their own stores. Investing time and money into assistant managers will pay dividends at a later date, when you are looking to fill store manager roles (more on this in Chapter 12).

Chapter 10  Strategy 5 Have meetings that matter

109

Type here

Strategy 5 Have meetings that matter:

Light bulbs

110

Type here

Strategy 5 Have meetings that matter:

Actions

111

Chapter 11

Develop your business acumen

When we think about business acumen, we tend to think about the numbers or the KPIs. These might include sales figures, conversion rates, margins, customer satisfaction costs, and results from  engagement surveys, etc. These all provide an important window into understanding your region and its results and are crucial if you want to know where to focus when planning and implementing strategies.

I like to think that these numbers, as well as reflecting financial results,    are a measure of how well you are looking after your people and your customers.

I have already written earlier about the importance of knowing your numbers and results in order to have effective store visits, so I don’t intend focusing on the financial side of business here. There is no doubt that time invested on strategies that are within your control and that impact on your results is time well spent and will serve you and your organisation well.

From a retailer’s perspective, there are other areas that I believe should demand your focus if you want to favourably impact your results.

Invest in all of your people

People aren’t where you save money, they are where you should invest money.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

From my perspective, that is what matters more than anything if you want to improve your results.

Chapter 11  Strategy 6 Develop your business acumen

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Chapter 11  Strategy 6 Develop your business acumen

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Undering is more costly than overing

have many systems in place for managing  costs. spend a lot of  time and it is from this that most of  frustration arises. The old saying is true: ‘You need to spend money to make money.’

Saturdays and Sundays are when foot traffic is at its highest and when customers want to shop. The formula that work from to keep their  costs down can be flawed and doesn’t always make sense. Yes, it does cost more to have more  on a weekend, but that is when your customers want to buy and when there is the greatest opportunity to increase your sales.

ing strategy alone could change the performance of

Chapter 11  Strategy 6 Develop your business acumen

Sales results, KPIs and budget achievements are less about the numbers themselves and more about the choices we make. They are also about area leaders being able to see the impact that the choices they make or don’t make can have on results.

Different allow different levels of autonomy to their area leaders.

Regardless of the autonomy you feel you have or don’t have, think about the decisions you can and should make. If you are unsure, it is best to speak to your leader about ideas or strategies on which you would like to act or that you would like to put in place.

It is better to put forward an idea and have it rejected than not to put any ideas forward at all.

119

Type here

Strategy 6 Develop your business acumen:

Light bulbs

120

Type here

Strategy 6 Develop your business acumen:

Actions

121

Chapter 12

Develop your future leaders

If there is one thing I have learnt from my years as an area leader and the time I have spent working with area leaders since then it is that what causes area leaders most distress and increases their workload is not having all of their stores led by effective store managers.