SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges faced by an area leader in turning around a struggling retail region, including addressing low sales, high turnover, lack of teamwork, and poor customer experience.
KEYWORDS: retail management, performance improvement, team building, customer experience
---

(Continued on next page)

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

(Continued on next page)

Chapter 3    The  performance pyramid

This ‘Region health checklist’ is available for you to copy from my website: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Once you have completed the checklist, ask yourself whether completing it has changed the way you perceive your role and its purpose? You might find that you already have more clarity regarding what might be missing from the way you are fulfilling your role and where you could focus to achieve improvement.

From what you have read so far and from competing the checklist, you might already have some ‘light bulbs’ and ‘actions’ to note on the pages following.

When your environment and strategies are working together, results will take care of themselves.

In the following chapters, we will start to work through some of the key areas that will help you improve your business environment, implement some key strategies and improve your results.

34

Type here

The performance pyramid:

Light bulbs

35

Type here

The performance pyramid:

Actions

36

Chapter 4

Building the environment

In my second stint as an area leader with Flight Centre, I took over the most underperforming area in Australia. It was made up of eighteen stores of which only one was profitable. Seventeen stores were losing money – some a significant amount of money!

Before I visited any of the stores, I spent time looking at their KPIs in  an attempt to understand what could be causing the results and, more importantly, what needed to be fixed to turn things around. What I saw was alarming!

Of Flight Centre’s five Victorian regions, the region to which I had been appointed had the lowest sales per consultant. It also had the highest  turnover of all Flight Centre’s regions throughout Australia, which resulted in a lack of experience among the consultants, contributing to a high level of customer complaints and high costs.

I went from store to store to meet each of the store managers and  consultants and had one-on-one conversations with everyone in the region.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

The feedback from every individual was consistently the same. There was no shared vision and no goals for each team to work towards. There was a lack of teamwork and cohesion in the teams. I found the best way to describe it as, ‘Everyone came to work, sold some travel and went home.’

The stores were messy and appeared disorganised, with not even the most basic systems in place. It became very clear that there were a lack of standards and lack of pride in the brand across the teams.

The high  turnover meant there were many new consultants, resulting in a lack of the product knowledge critical for delivering the best customer experience. Considering the fact customers were coming to us for our travel expertise, this was far from ideal.

Consultants felt frustrated because they were not being given the support they felt they needed to learn their roles and to be successful at them. Many  members felt they were constantly spending much of their time training new  due to the high  turnover, which was taking them away from their own work.

From speaking with many of the store managers, I discovered they felt lost and directionless. Some spoke of their lack of motivation to even become a store manager in the first place but they had felt pressured to take on the role because they were the most experienced in their stores.

What was evident was that, despite many new people joining the company with a genuine passion for travel and a genuine desire to have an outstanding career, their hopes and dreams were quickly dashed once they started in their roles.

I also saw that some individuals had low standards and couldn’t be part of the culture I wanted to create.

With what I had uncovered, I began to construct a business plan to give myself the best chance of turning things around. I reflected on what I had learnt from my time training the new store managers.

What had resonated most with me was that the store managers wanted to feel heard, supported, valued and connected. They desperately wanted to have a sense of belonging to a community (or, as I describe it, a ‘tribe’). They wanted to feel part of a team and this seemed to matter more to them than anything else.

Chapter 4    Building the environment

I could see that, while addressing all of the organisation’s strategic challenges was going to take a little longer, addressing the way people felt about their roles and the important work they did could be addressed really quickly. Creating an environment in which people felt valued, appreciated and part of a community was going to be the foundation I laid for rebuilding the region.

I have seen many organisations, with clear and well-documented strategies, but where implementing those strategies proved a struggle – often as a result of shortcomings in the business environment.

Since 2016, I have worked with many retailers, listening to the challenges they are facing and want to fix. Those challenges usually relate to a lack    of growth and, in some cases, a drastic decline in  results  relating  to  areas such as profit, sales growth or market share. The cause or major contributing factor for these problems is usually perceived as lying with    the business strategy of the business – rising costs, declining margins, increased competition, or online disruption.