SOURCE: Crabb_EGforALinR_Word file from pdf1.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Workforce Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of effectively managing a largely part-time and casual retail workforce to ensure employee engagement and business success.
KEYWORDS: part-time workforce, casual workforce, employee engagement, retail management, workforce flexibility
---

Following up your store visits

Every store visit should finish with agreement on the strategies or actions to be implemented before the next visit. The store manager will have actions to perform and strategies to implement, but you may also have things that you have agreed to implement or follow up and it is important that you follow through with those. Failure to do this is one certain way to break trust with store managers and .

You may agree with your store managers on different ways to follow up on their progress, depending on whether the store you are visiting is a Priority A, Priority B or Priority C store.

You may prefer to allocate time each week for following up or you might make an agreed time at the end of each future visit to do that. If you use a template during each store visit for recording actions and strategies to be implemented, it will make follow up much easier. Sometimes, depending on the nature of the strategies, you will follow up throughout the month via phone or email, rather than waiting until your next store visit.

Regardless of whether you follow up throughout the month or not, it is important that you discuss the strategies decided on the previous visit when you next visit the store. This will help with consistency.

Once you are in the habit of documenting and following up, and encouraging your store managers to do the same, you will see an elevated level of ownership from the store managers for the business and their results.

93

Type here

Strategy 3 Deliver on your store visits:

Light bulbs

94

Type here

Strategy 3 Deliver on your store visits:

Actions

95

Chapter 9

Engage your part-time workforce

Part-time and casual  make up almost 70% of  retail workforce. After hospitality, this is the second highest participation rate by part-timers and casual workers in anybusiness sector. The employment of casual and part-time  allows retailers flexibility to have more  working at peak shopping times and during peak shopping periods.

The availability of casual and part-time work in the retail sector also allows many people to have a role in the workforce while studying. Not only employers need flexibility! When handled well, the employment of part-time and casual  can result in win/win situations, mutually benefitting both retailers and their workforce.

Having such a large part-time and casual workforce, it makes good business sense for retail employers to take good care of them, especially if their products require confident sales  with good product knowledge.

do better in dealings with part-time and casual employees. I have interviewed many casual workers, be they working parents, students working while studying, or people working casually in a second job. Consistently, I hear that their experience is one of not feeling valued or of feeling like a number or a ‘dollar per hour’ commodity. Many of them have experienced having shifts cut at the last minute, being asked to come in and cover a shift’s  shortage with little or no notice, being rostered for a four-hour shift only to be sent home early, or being given only a couple of shifts a week which doesn’t provide them with an adequate income.

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

What casual  and part-time  members really want is to feel valued, appreciated and cared about.

Understanding the make-up of your workforce

This activity is aimed at helping you to determine the type of  working for you (full-time, part-time or casual) and the percentage of each that make up your total workforce. Fill in the table and perform the calculations to assist you to understand what kinds of workers constitute your workforce.

* FTE = Full time equivalent

This table is available for you to copy from my website: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

If casual and part-time  make up a large percentage of your workforce, the longer they continue working for you the more beneficial it can be for you. The longerare employed the better their product knowledge and systems knowledge will be, they will form deeper relationships with  and customers, and will develop more brand loyalty.

There is a danger for retailers if their part-time and casual  members do not feel valued, appreciated or cared about because this impacts their desire to go above and beyond for the customer and the brand, or to volunteer more of their effort willingly.

Chapter 9  Strategy 4 Engage your part-time workforce

Engaging your casual and part-time workforce

Below are some questions that you might find useful for deciding ways in which you can retain and engage your casual and part-time workers – who probably represent the largest category of workers in your stores!

How can you ensure theseare part of the community within your ?

How can you ensure you have very good communication channels with them?

How can you gather valuable feedback from these?

How can you ensure you know their career aspirations?

How can you find ways for them to transition from part-time to full- time, and back to part-time, if necessary?

The more you can show genuine appreciation, support and care, understanding their goals and displaying a truly collaborative approach, your casual and part-time workforce will become more committed and will care more about your customers and your results. They will embrace striving for sales targets together with you.

this relationship needs to be built on mutual respect, care and trust.

I have always believed that the way you treat your employees is the way they will treat your customers, and that people flourish when they are praised.

99

Type here

Strategy 4 Engage your part-time workforce:

Light bulbs

100

Type here

Strategy 4 Engage your part-time workforce:

Actions

101

Chapter 10

Have meetings that matter

Communication