SOURCE: Culturally Wiring Your Organization for Sustainability.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture
TOPIC: Organizational Sustainability
SUMMARY: This document discusses strategies for culturally wiring an organization for long-term sustainability, including the five cultural zones of the business lifecycle and the seven business forces required to reach and remain in the zone of maximization.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, business lifecycle, sustainable growth, strategic innovation, operational optimization
---

Culture Strategy Partners

POWERING BUSINESS WITH PURPOSE & PASSION™

Culturally Wiring Your Organisation for Sustainability

What can you do in here...

Financial

Performance

... that will produce this...

... father than this?

Time

geen? acest

The 5 Cultural Zones of the Business Lifecycle:

Zone of

Pre aed e Zone of Growing Confidence: cash flow no longer

achallenge; growth is king; innovation is rampant;

systems are weak; a lack of accountability

e Zone of Growing Certainty: absolute focus agreed;

systems maturing; identity and ideology bedded

down; organisation settling down and getting serious

¢ Zone of Maximisation: Reaping the rewards; a

Sustainability strong purpose-based, values-driven culture; clear

“Tipping Point” goals; controlled and nurtured innovation;

institutionalised corporate governance

¢ Zone of Growing Uncertainty: Things begin to

break down; products are tired; what used to work

doesn't anymore; transformation urgency sets in

¢ Zone of Accelerated Breakdown: If the trans-

formation fails, the breakdown begins to accelerate;

a state of denial; talented people begin to leave

Each zone in the business cycle requires a fundamental shift in focus in five areas:

1. Goals. 2. Management style and structure. 3. Revenues and Profits. 4. Types of Problems. 5. Types of Rewards

Keeping to the Left of the “Tipping Point”: the Key to Sustainability

To maintain sustainable growth and profits, a company must first fully understand its existing business model, and then

constantly re-analyse it in the context of:

The 7 Business Forces Required to Reach and Remain in the Zone of Maximisation

1. Core Principles & Effective Business Maps. 2. Strategic Innovation. 3. Strategic Marketing. 4. Sales Mastery

Systems. 5. Operational Optimisation & Maximisation. 6. Anticipation Research & Analysis. 7. Creating “Brand

Evangelist” Customers.

The 7 Triggers of Crisis

14. Change in Competition. 2. Change in Technology. 3. Change in Social Tastes & Behaviours. 4. Change in

Economy. 5. Change in Customers’ Lives. 6. Change in Employees’ Lives. 7. Change in Owners’ / Leaders’ Lives.

Wiring your organisation to maintain these processes of re-analysis and re-invention with dogged discipline and

determination is what your cultural journey is all about. It's a journey that takes time, patience and persistence. There is

no finish line, no having “made it”. In time it simply becomes the way of life in your organisation, that your people are

constantly and systematically on the lookout for new and better ways to fulfil your purpose and vision. This is the key to

superior, enduring success. The key to staying in the ‘Green Zone’.

If you would like to discuss wiring your organisation for sustainability, please call Tim Murray on (02) 9043 5288

Copyright © 2011 Culture Strategy Partners Pty Ltd. All rights reserved.