SOURCE: Culture Strategy Partners_Powering Business with Purpose & Passion.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and Performance
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of relational coordination within an organization to achieve improved performance across key indicators.
KEYWORDS: relational coordination, collective identity, organizational culture, performance, leadership
---

Culture Strategy Partners

POWERING BUSINESS WITH PURPOSE & PASSION™

“OUR WAY”

Building a culture of collective identity to create a

strong brand and power peak business performance

The performance effects of relational coordination within an organisation are large and statistically

significant. This means that management can be quite certain of achieving improved performance across

their key indicators — quality, efficiency, safety, customer service, growth and sustainability - if an increase

in relational coordination can be achieved.

What is relational coordination?

Relational coordination is coordination carried out through relationships that develop through shared

goals, shared knowledge and mutual respect, enabled by frequent, timely and problem-solving

communication from top-down, bottom-up, and across organisational functions. *

The power of collective identity

As humans, our personal identities are shaped by the relationships in our lives. Similarly,

within an organisation, relationships formed through shared goals, shared knowledge and

mutual respect shape a “collective identity”. This leads to individuals identifying strongly

with the organisation, and a collective, coordinated motivation towards what's best for

the organisation as a whole. The result is a teamwork culture that powers peak

organisational performance.

Settings that benefit most from relational coordination

While improving relational coordination is beneficial for every organisation, the

impact on performance is proportional to the presence of three characteristics:

The Relational

Safety\ Coordination Triad™

Quality

e Task Interdependence: when tasks are reciprocally interdependent

ie actions of one participant influence the tasks of multiple others.

e Uncertainty: when there are high levels of uncertainty, requiring

continuous updates of information and adjustments of plans.

¢ Time Constrained: time-dependent product or service delivery

limits an organisation's ability to use time buffers to reduce

the effects of task interdependence and uncertainty. Customer Service!

Copyright © 201 Culture Strategy Partners Pty Ltd

Nine practices for building high performance relationships

To use relational coordination to define your culture, create a strong brand, and power peak business

performance, up to nine practices uniquely tailored for each organisation need to be enacted. Each practice is

designed to reinforce the others so that the total is greater than the sum of the parts. The nine practices for

building high performance relationships are:

Efficiency

Sustainability

1. Leading with credibility and caring: credibility: the ability to inspire and build trust; caring: the ability to

inspire a belief by employees that their leaders care deeply about their well-being.

2. Investing in frontline leadership: building a network of supervisors who work side by side with frontline

employees, gaining their respect and providing meaningful coaching and feedback to their direct reports.

3. Hiring and training for relational competence : increasingly, jobs require not only functional expertise

but also relational competence to develop the relationships proven to dramatically improve performance.

4. Keeping jobs flexible at the boundaries: providing sufficient, appropriate cross-functional training and

ending all job descriptions with “.and whatever else you need to do to enhance the overall operation.”

5. Bridging the work / family divide: fostering the positive energy that good family and community

relationships bring to the workplace, and that good workplace relationships give back to them.

6. Dissolving functional silos: creating cross-functional goals by measuring performance broadly, and

using “boundary spanners” as relationship builders to foster teamwork and eliminate finger pointing.

7. Using conflicts to build relationships: proactively identifying personal conflicts that naturally emerge out

of ‘running a tight ship’ and resolving them through shared goals, shared knowledge and mutual respect.

8. Bringing unions into ‘the family’: acknowledging the importance of unions and developing positive

relationships that are reinforced daily through shared goals, shared knowledge and mutual respect.

9. Building external relationships: leveraging and extending the same relational competence developed in

your internal relationships to suppliers and partners to encompass the organisation's entire value chain.

If you'd like to discuss “YOUR WAY”, please call Tim Murray on (02) 9043 5288

Copyright © 2011 Culture Strategy Partners Pty Ltd. All rights reserved. www.culturestrategy.com.au Sa a