SOURCE: Customer Service & Sales.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Customer Service
SUMMARY: The author's experience with unhelpful and untrained salespeople at two bookstores highlights the need for better customer service and product knowledge.
KEYWORDS: customer service, salespeople training, product knowledge, customer experience, retail
---

CUSTOMER SERVICE

The Customer’s Perspective

Are You Paying Salespeople To Turn Away Your Customers?

t was a banner shopping day for me. I visited

two bookstores and managed to outperform the

| salespeople in both stores. Simply by virtue of

being a resourceful consumer, I chose not to trust

that the salespeople were well-informed when they told

me they didn’t have what I asked for, and I relentlessly

pursued the merchandise I wanted.

I prevailed. Or did I? I’m guilty of indirectly

rewarding poor performance—awarding my busi-

ness to retailers who didn’t take the time to provide

adequate training to their salespeople.

We're not talking tall requests, here. In the

irst store, | asked where I would find address

pooks. The salesperson pointed at a disheveled

pile of calendars, marked down 50% because the new

year was already in progress. “Not calendars,” I said,

“Address books—they don’t have dates in them.”

mpatiently, she insisted, “Whatever we have is right

there.” I gave up on trying to define “address book”

for her and used my noggin.

Knowing address books usually lurked near

journals and blank books, I asked where I would

find those. “Over there,” she said, as she pointed

without even looking up at me. Sure enough,

there were at least twelve different address books

to choose from. I was tempted to march her

over and say “FYI, this is where you keep your

address books, toots.”

Later that day, I learned that one of my best friends

hadn't read a current, must-read best seller, Little Altars

Everywhere. I wanted to buy it for her, so I braved another

book store. When I didn’t see the book up front, and didn’t

find it in the fiction section, under the author’s name,

sought assistance at the information kiosk. Using a com-

puter, the salesperson typed in the title of the book I was

looking for. “It’s not showing at all,” she said. Once again,

knew I was going to have to do the resourceful thinking.

told her the book was absolutely in their database, because

‘d purchased it there before AND it was currently on the

New York Times Best Seller list. I noticed that she’d mis-

spelled the word “Altar” as “Alter.”. An honest mistake.

Enthusiastically, I said “That's it! Altar is spelled with an “a”

in this case. Try it again.” I watched her re-type it—again

spelling altar with an “e.” Finally, I reached over the

counter and correctly typed in “altar,” and_ the listing

magically appeared on the monitor.

Get this. She says “Well, it says here we have six-

teen, but then before it said we don’t have any, so

we don't have any. Sorry.”, I started to question

her logic, but she’d exhausted me, so I decided to

seek intelligent life at the cash registers up front.

I chose a friendly, vital-looking woman and said,

hopefully, “Do you have a section for New York

Times best sellers?” “Sure!” She said, “Right over

there.” When I arrived “right over there,” I nearly

tripped over a mountain of copies of the book they

didn’t have. Again, I wanted to escort the zombie at

the information kiosk to the mountain, rub her nose in

it, and swat her with a newspaper. Instead, I bought

a copy of the book and was comforted by the

thought that I would not have to visit another book

store that day.

Amazon.com is growing more appealing

by the second. You see, the advantage of actual

vs. virtual shopping is that there’s instant gratifi-

cation. But when the shopping trip is more

frustrating than gratifying, I can stand to wait

two business days to get my hands on the

merchandise.

Here’s the moral of the story. Make a decision. If

you're a self-service store, then make darn sure you have an

excellent store directory and great signs directing your cus-

tomers to the merchandise they want. If you have people

who work for you planted on your selling floor, make sure

they, at the very least, know how and where to find the

things you're in business to sell. Few shoppers are going to

work as hard as I did to buy. Make sure your salespeople

are encouraging, not discouraging sales! BJ

Customer Service Points That Will Turn More Shoppers Into Buyers

1. Satisfy Every Single Customer

2. Keep Personal Problems Off the Floor and In a Drawer

3. Don’t Congregate On the Selling Floor

4. Acknowledge Every Customer's Presence

5. Never Qualify Customers

6. Never Invade Your Customer's “Personal Space”

7. Be Empathetic — Not Sympathetic

8. Listen to Your Customers’ Ideas — Not Just Their Words

9. Use Words to Express — Not Impress

10. Never Interrupt Your Customers

11. When Your Customers Are Talking, They're Buying

12. Get Your Customers to Like and Trust You

13. Always Look Professional

14. Stay In Control

15. Sell With Enthusiasm Whether You love It or Hate It

16. Dance According to the Music Played

ON THE FLOOR/ISSUE 2/1999 PAGE 3

SALES

Painting A Picture That Makes

Your Customers Want To Buy — amp‘.

ruly the only thing that separates your store

a | from others is you. Yeah, you. You know .. .

| the one who's reading this. Very few things

separate you from anyone else in retail. Your

knowledge of your products and people, your desire to

go the extra mile for your customers and the wonderful

words you use to show that knowledge and express

yourself are a few of the things you can do to differenti-

ate yourself from every other retail salesperson.

Just as a painter uses a brush and canvas to create an

exhilarating work of art, salespeople use words to create

excitement and desire for their

products. Whether you are describ-

ing the brilliance of a gemstone, the

singular advantage of a camera's

zoom lens or the style and flair of a

particular garment, the words that

make up your vocabulary need to