SOURCE: Customer Service & Sales.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Management and Accountability
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of ensuring employee compliance, clear communication of expectations, and administering fair consequences for non-compliance to maintain a productive and disciplined work environment.
KEYWORDS: employee compliance, consequence management, workplace discipline, performance management, accountability
---

So why shouldn’t employees ignore you when you ask

them to comply? Integrity? A solid work ethic? That

would be admirable, but it’s not realistic.

Furthermore, what about your integrity? If

you're a retail store manager, for example, and

it's your job to see that tasks get accomplished,

and employees are getting paid to do their

work, aren’t you shirking your responsibilities if

you don’t ensure that employees are actually

doing what they're getting paid to do? If you

don’t follow through until compliance is gained,

you haven't done your job.

This is strong medicine, but few of us can say we don’t

need a dose of it. It’s not easy to follow through, and

there are a few major reasons why this is so:

For most people, the problem is that they get caught

up in the heat of the moment and set forth consequences

that are too harsh, and therefore difficult or unreasonable

to impose. We want to get things done, but when it comes

right down to it, we don’t want to be “the bad guy.” We

don’t want to be disliked, so we let things slide—some-

times even taking on the responsibility ourselves.

Another problem is that we don’t communicate our

expectations clearly to begin with, making total compliance

difficult. This may be because we’re uncertain ourselves

about what needs to be done, or because we're just not

taking the time to explain things thoroughly. When it

becomes evident that our instructions were misunderstood,

it doesn’t seem fair to impose consequences, so we don’t.

For most tasks, your best bet is to give written

instructions that detail the behaviors that must be carried

out. Do your best to issue directives in a way that cannot

be misinterpreted.

Simply put, the key to eliminating compliance

problems is to train employees to do their jobs competently

and consistently, and to provide immediate consequences

for incompetence or inconsistency.

When we know we've done the groundwork to enable

someone to perform to our expectations, it’s a lot less

difficult to hold them accountable for doing so. Also,

incidences of non-compliance tend to decrease when

employees are well-trained and therefore confident in their

ability to perform their job well.

On an extremely positive note, keep in mind that the

more harmonious and disciplined the environment, the less

likely you are to have to issue negative consequences. A

staff becomes unruly and irresponsible when

there’s no repercussion. When they see that

everyone is treated fairly and expected to fulfill

heir responsibilities competently and

consistently—and that consequences are

provided for non-compliance—employees tend to

comply. Those who don’t, need to find a job they can do

well, and ultimately, the consequences you provide will

help them to do just that!

People may be lazy occasionally, but they don’t really

enjoy working in undisciplined environments. Fairly and

promptly-administered consequences help to maintain high

levels of productivity and job satisfaction.

The truth about consequences is that even when

they’re negative in content, they’re positive in effect.

c

J

ON THE FLOOR/ISSUE 2/1999 PAGE 5