SOURCE: Customer Service & Sales.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Product Presentation and Selling
SUMMARY: Effective product presentation requires thorough knowledge, accurate customer assessment, and articulate expression to create a compelling buying experience.
KEYWORDS: product description, customer communication, sales presentation, product knowledge, word choice
---

excitement and desire for their

products. Whether you are describ-

ing the brilliance of a gemstone, the

singular advantage of a camera's

zoom lens or the style and flair of a

particular garment, the words that

make up your vocabulary need to

paint a picture that will really put a

buying twinkle in your customer's

eye.

This means that you have to make an accurate assess-

ment of your customers so you can communicate with

them in a manner that will make them feel comfortable

with you. Customers whose style is Van Gogh may not

feel relaxed with a salesperson who is fixated on Picasso,

Painting a word picture of your product requires a

thorough knowledge of your products and services. How

will you be able to say that your merchandise is durable

enough to last a lifetime, or that it's the latest Paris fash-

ion, unless you have taken the time to learn what you

need to know about it?

“These shoes

are all leather,

which is flexible,

making them very

comfortable.”

Selling Times Two

‘You know, when

you wear these

shoes, you're going

to have a smile on

your face because

one of the great

things about them is

Equally important to your

assessment of your customers and

your knowledge of your mer- ih

chandise is your ability to express

yourself articulately. Your skill

with words will enable you to | that they're a soft calf-

adapt the product to your client's skin leather. As you

unique needs and to perform | wear them, they will |,

your demonstration in a way that

is dynamic, engrossing and excit-

ing to the customer.

Here's an example of how you |i

can add some spark and excite-

ment to a simple demonstration

statement. Which statement do

you think would prompt a cus-

tomer to buy?

Certainly, both sentences give

the customer a reason why they

should buy these shoes. But the

“painted” sentence gives the cus-

tomer a much more compelling

reason to buy. Is there anyone out there who wouldn't

rather have a pair of shoes that would “mold to the shape

of your feet” than a pair which was just “flexible?”

Use your creativity when you're painting pictures of

your products in your customer's mind. If you're unsure

about which words to use, grab a dictionary, buy a the-

saurus. You'll be pleasantly surprised at how easily you'll

be able to find words and paint those pictures that will

make your customers want to buy. BI

mold to the shape of

your feel, giving you a |

custom-made feel. It}

would be kind of fun

to walk around in

custom-made shoes,

don't you think?” /

Including Customers’ Spouses, Relatives, Friends or Other “Tag-along”

Shoppers in Your Sales Presentation

When you're in the midst of an in-depth probing session

or a dynamic demonstration, it’s very easy to get so focused

on the customer who's doing most of the talking that you vir-

tually ignore the spouse, significant other, relative, or friend

who's standing right there.

While the “main” customer may indeed be the one who's

making the ultimate decision, you absolutely want both par-

ties to be excited about the merchandise you're selling.

Your best bet is to make eye contact with both individu-

als throughout the selling process. Seek agreement from the

ON THE FLOOR/ISSUE 2/1999 PAGE 4

other person, acknowledge their comments, solicit their ques-

tions and answer them enthusiastically. Bottom line: involve

them!

You never know how much of an influence they will

have on the ultimate decision to buy, but even if they have

no influence, you want them to have a great experience in

your store. If it is memorable and fun they will be much

more likely to endorse their shopping pal’s purchase and

even come back to shop with you again when they are the

one who’s in the position to say “T'll take it!” B)

SALES

Hot Tips And Strategies For Opening The Sale

) ou don’t get a second chance to make a first

y | impression. In selling, this is an important obser-

| vation, because those first few moments

with a customer determine whether

you'll even get the chance to make a sale.

To get things off to a great start and signifi-

cantly increase your chances of making a satisfying

sale, follow these simple guidelines.

Your customers will stop “Just looking” and

start accepting your assistance with pleasure.

© Start with a creative, friendly opening line.

DO NOT ask “May I help you?”

¢ Don't rush right into business. The merchan-

dise isn’t going anywhere, but your customers will

try to escape if they sense that you're only interested

in slamming a deal. Get to know your customer first, then

ease into selling.

¢ Customers are drawn to salespeople who appear to

be busy. They perceive busy salespeople as less likely to

pressure them into buying and more likely to be able to

answer questions quickly and efficiently. Act busy, even

when you're not!

¢ People like and trust others who seem to be genuinely

interested in what they have to say. Listen carefully to your

customer and respond supportively—get them to talk to you,

and you'll have an easier time getting them to buy from you.

For more great tips and strategies on opening the sale,

read “No Thanks I'm Just Looking!” Harry J. Friedman's

best-selling book of retail sales techniques for turning shoppers

into buyers. Bi

The Truth About Consequences ...........00eee008 fiom page I

to them if they ignore you, This is true for both negative

and positive consequences. If you constantly promise

rewards, but never deliver, your promises become mean-

ingless, not motivating.

So why shouldn’t employees ignore you when you ask

them to comply? Integrity? A solid work ethic? That

would be admirable, but it’s not realistic.

Furthermore, what about your integrity? If

you're a retail store manager, for example, and

it's your job to see that tasks get accomplished,