SOURCE: Diagnostic-Tool.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Jim Collins
TOPIC: Business Strategy and Operations
SUMMARY: The text describes the concept of the 'flywheel' in building sustained greatness, emphasizing consistency, alignment, and avoiding the 'doom loop'.
KEYWORDS: Flywheel, Consistency, Alignment, Momentum, Discipline
---

[Document: Diagnostic-Tool.pdf]

Grade Range:

A = We exemplify this trait exceptionally well—there is limited room for improvement.

B = We often exemplify this trait, but we also have room for improvement.

C = We show some evidence of this trait, but our record is spotty.

D = There is little evidence that we exemplify this trait, and we have obvious contradictions.

F = We operate almost entirely contrary to this trait.

The Flywheel, Part 1: Grade:

Build cumulative momentum. (A, B, C, D, F)

We understand that building greatness never happens in one fell swoop—that there is no single defin-

ing action, no one killer innovation, no seminal acquisition, no breakthrough technology, no savior on a

white horse, no wrenching revolution that can by itself bring about sustained greatness.

We build greatness by a cumulative process—step by step, action by action, day by day, week by week,

year by year—turn by turn of the flywheel.

While some pushes on the flywheel are bigger than others, no single push by itself accounts for the

majority of our momentum; we understand that it requires hundreds of additional pushes to turn any big

decision into a successful decision.

The Flywheel, Part 2: Grade:

Be relentlessly consistent over time. (A, B, C, D, F)

When examining our behavior, one word that comes to mind is consistency—consistency of purpose,

consistency of values, consistency of Hedgehog, consistency of high standards, consistency of people,

and so forth.

Our success derives from a whole bunch of interlocking pieces that reinforce one another, consistently

applied over a long period of time.

We have immense flexibility and we adapt well to change—but always within the context of a coherent

Hedgehog Concept.

GOOD TO GREAT® DIAGNOSTIC TOOL. DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00. © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. PAGE 14

THE FLYWHEEL, NOT THE DOOM LOOP

CONTINUED

The Flywheel, Part 3: Grade:

Create alignment by results, not hoopla. (A, B, C, D, F)

We tend to undersell ourselves, and then delightfully surprise by blowing people away with our

actual results.

We never pump up our reputation with a sales job (“buy into our future”) to compensate for

lack of results.

We do not “sell visions” to fire people up or take a programmatic or hoopla-laden approach to

alignment.

We understand that when people begin to feel the magic of momentum—when they feel the flywheel

increase speed—is when most people line up to throw their shoulders against the wheel and push.

The Flywheel, Part 4: Grade:

Avoid the Doom Loop. (A, B, C, D, F)

We do not succumb to the lazy, undisciplined search for a single silver bullet solution—be it a new

program, a motivational event, a sexy technology, a big acquisition, or a savior CEO.

We do not build from 0 to 100 rotations in the flywheel, then stop, lurch in a new direction, lose our

momentum and start anew. We have the discipline to turn the flywheel from 0 to 100, 100 to a

thousand, a thousand to a million, a million to a billion turns—and to not go 0 to 100, 0 to 100,

0 to 100, lurching from new program to new program.

If a new technology advances our Hedgehog, we become a pioneer in its application; if a new

technology does not fit, we don’t worry too much about it—and we certainly don’t lurch about in

fearful frantic reaction.

When we look at the Flywheel versus the Doom Loop side-by-side table on pages 183-184 in chapter

8 of Good to Great, we are characterized much more by the flywheel side of the ledger than the

doom loop side.

GOOD TO GREAT® DIAGNOSTIC TOOL. DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00. © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. PAGE 15

PRESERVE THE CORE / STIMULATE PROGRESS

Preserve the Core/Stimulate Progress has four primary components:

1) Articulate a core guiding philosophy—core values and a reason for being that goes beyond

just making money.

2) Change and improve everything except your core values.

3) Create a passionate culture that preserves the core and stimulates progress.

4) Achieve BHAGs—big hairy audacious goals.

Grade Range:

A = We exemplify this trait exceptionally well—there is limited room for improvement.

B = We often exemplify this trait, but we also have room for improvement.

C = We show some evidence of this trait, but our record is spotty.

D = There is little evidence that we exemplify this trait, and we have obvious contradictions.

F = We operate almost entirely contrary to this trait.

Preserve the Core / Stimulate Progress, Part 1: Grade:

Articulate a core guiding philosophy—core values and a reason for being that goes beyond just (A, B, C, D, F)

making money.

We have a passionately-held set of core values that we adhere to, no matter how much the world

changes around us.

We are honest about what our core values actually are. We don’t worry about what outsiders think of

our values; they are for internal guidance, not marketing.

If these core values were to become a competitive disadvantage at some point in the future, we

would still hold them.

We have an enduring purpose or mission—a reason for being—that that goes beyond just

making money.

Preserve the Core / Stimulate Progress, Part 2: Grade:

Change and improve everything except your core values. (A, B, C, D, F)

We practice the “Genius of the And”—continuity and change, values and results, cohesion and autono-

my, endurance and urgency, and so forth.

We are clear on the difference between our core values (which should never change) as distinct from our

operating practices, cultural norms, goals, strategies, and tactics (which should remain open for change).

While we hold our core values constant, we stimulate progress—change, improvement, innovation,

and renewal—in the operating practices, cultural norms, goals, strategies and tactics that surround

the core values.

We understand that if our list of core values is too long, we are very likely confusing core values with