SOURCE: Diagnostic-Tool.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Jim Collins
TOPIC: Organizational Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the Hedgehog Concept and a Culture of Discipline, key principles for building a great organization.
KEYWORDS: Hedgehog Concept, Culture of Discipline, Organizational Excellence, Strategic Focus, Passion and Expertise
---

[Document: Diagnostic-Tool.pdf]

We understand that nothing great can be accomplished without passion, and we limit our primary arenas

of activity to those for which we have great passion.

We know what we can be the best in the world at. While “best in the world” might be local or

highly-focused, e.g., “best in the world at breaking the cycle of homelessness in Indiana” or “best in

the world at providing financial services to people in Des Moines,” it nonetheless captures what we

can do better than any other institution on the planet.

We understand what best drives our economic or resource engine. If we are a for-profit business, we

have identified our one economic denominator—profit per X—that has the most significant impact on

our economics. If we are a social sector organization, we know how best to improve our total resource

engine, so that we can spend less time worrying about money and more time fulfilling our mission.

GOOD TO GREAT® DIAGNOSTIC TOOL. DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00. © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. PAGE 10

THE HEDGEHOG CONCEPT

CONTINUED

The Hedgehog Concept, Part 3: Grade:

Act with understanding, not bravado. (A, B, C, D, F)

We believe that great results come about by a series of good decisions—actions taken with

understanding, not bravado—accumulated one on top of another, in line with our Hedgehog Concept.

We believe that a great organization that sticks to its Hedgehog will, in the words of David Packard,

“have indigestion of too much opportunity,” rather than starvation for too little.

We confront the brutal facts of what we can—and equally cannot—become the best in the world at,

and we do not allow bravado to obscure the truth.

GOOD TO GREAT® DIAGNOSTIC TOOL. DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00. © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. PAGE 11

A CULTURE OF DISCIPLINE

A Culture of Discipline has four primary components:

1) Focus on your Hedgehog.

2) Build a system of freedom and responsibility within a framework.

3) Manage the system, not the people.

4) Practice extreme commitment.

Grade Range:

A = We exemplify this trait exceptionally well—there is limited room for improvement.

B = We often exemplify this trait, but we also have room for improvement.

C = We show some evidence of this trait, but our record is spotty.

D = There is little evidence that we exemplify this trait, and we have obvious contradictions.

F = We operate almost entirely contrary to this trait.

Culture of Discipline, Part 1: Grade:

Focus on your Hedgehog. (A, B, C, D, F)

We have the discipline to say “No thank you” to big opportunities that do not fit within our Hedgehog

Concept. A “once-in-a-lifetime opportunity” is irrelevant if it is the wrong opportunity.

We never lurch after growth for growth’s sake; we grow consistently within our Hedgehog, period.

We are willing to jettison our core competencies and largest lines of business if we cannot be the best in

the world at them.

We make excellent use of “Stop Doing” lists.

Culture of Discipline, Part 2: Grade:

Build a system of freedom and responsibility within a framework. (A, B, C, D, F)

A cornerstone of our culture is the idea of freedom and responsibility within a framework: so long as

people stay within the wide bounds of the framework, they have an immense amount of freedom to

innovate, achieve and contribute.

People in our system understand that they do not have “jobs”—they have responsibilities—and they

grasp the distinction between just doing assigned tasks and taking full responsibility for the results

of their efforts.

We can answer the question for each significant activity, “Who is the one person responsible?”

Our culture is a productive blend of dualities, such as: freedom and responsibility, discipline and

entrepreneurship, rigor and creativity, financial control and innovative spirit, focused Hedgehog and

adaptable. We see no contradictions in cultural duality; we exemplify the “Genius of the And.”

Culture of Discipline, Part 3: Grade:

Manage the system, not the people. (A, B, C, D, F)

We do not spend a lot of time motivating our people; we recruit self-motivated people, and provide an

environment that does not de-motivate them.

We do not spend a lot of time disciplining our people; we recruit self-disciplined people, and then man-

age the system, not the people.

We avoid bureaucracy that imposes unnecessary rules on self-motivated and self-disciplined people; if we

have the right people, they don’t need a lot of rules.

GOOD TO GREAT® DIAGNOSTIC TOOL. DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00. © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. PAGE 12

A CULTURE OF DISCIPLINE

CONTINUED

Culture of Discipline, Part 4: Grade:

Practice extreme commitment. (A, B, C, D, F)

In our culture, people go to extremes to fulfill their commitments and deliver results, bordering at times

on fanaticism.

Words like “disciplined,” “rigorous,” “dogged,” “determined,” “diligent,” “precise,” “systematic,”

”methodical,” “workmanlike,” “demanding,” “consistent,” “focused,” “accountable,” and

“responsible” describe us well.

We are equally disciplined in good times as in bad times. We never allow prosperity to make us complacent.

GOOD TO GREAT® DIAGNOSTIC TOOL. DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00. © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. PAGE 13

THE FLYWHEEL, NOT THE DOOM LOOP

The Flywheel has four primary components:

1) Build cumulative momentum.

2) Be relentlessly consistent over time.

3) Create alignment by results, not hoopla.

4) Avoid the Doom Loop.

Grade Range:

A = We exemplify this trait exceptionally well—there is limited room for improvement.

B = We often exemplify this trait, but we also have room for improvement.

C = We show some evidence of this trait, but our record is spotty.

D = There is little evidence that we exemplify this trait, and we have obvious contradictions.

F = We operate almost entirely contrary to this trait.

The Flywheel, Part 1: Grade:

Build cumulative momentum. (A, B, C, D, F)

We understand that building greatness never happens in one fell swoop—that there is no single defin-