SOURCE: Diagnostic-Tool.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Jim Collins
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and Values
SUMMARY: The document discusses the importance of preserving core values while stimulating progress through cultural norms, goals, and strategies.
KEYWORDS: core values, organizational culture, change management, progress, BHAG
---

[Document: Diagnostic-Tool.pdf]

my, endurance and urgency, and so forth.

We are clear on the difference between our core values (which should never change) as distinct from our

operating practices, cultural norms, goals, strategies, and tactics (which should remain open for change).

While we hold our core values constant, we stimulate progress—change, improvement, innovation,

and renewal—in the operating practices, cultural norms, goals, strategies and tactics that surround

the core values.

We understand that if our list of core values is too long, we are very likely confusing core values with

practices and aspirations; we have no more than six values that we consider to be truly core.

GOOD TO GREAT® DIAGNOSTIC TOOL. DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00. © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. PAGE 16

PRESERVE THE CORE / STIMULATE PROGRESS

CONTINUED

Preserve the Core / Stimulate Progress, Part 3: Grade:

Create a passionate culture that preserves the core and stimulates progress. (A, B, C, D, F)

We have built a culture that so consistently reinforces our core values that those who do not share the

values are ejected like a virus, or they become so uncomfortable that they self-eject.

We promote leaders who live the core values; those who repeatedly breach our values never make it far

or last long in our culture.

We are so consistent with our values that if every conversation, every decision, every action were

videotaped, people watching the tape would be astounded by our consistency and passion for living

to our values.

No matter how much we achieve, we never feel comfortable or feel that we’ve arrived. We’re

obsessively focused on our shortcomings—on what we could do better; the term “productively

neurotic” describes our culture well.

Preserve the Core / Stimulate Progress, Part 4: Grade:

Achieve BHAGs—big hairy audacious goals. (A, B, C, D, F)

We have a remarkable success rate at achieving our BHAGs (big hairy audacious goals); we rarely fall

short of the extreme standards of achievement we set for ourselves.

We understand the difference between a 10-to-25 year BHAG—which is like a huge mountain to climb—

and 5-year intermediate objectives, which are like base camps on the way to the top of the mountain.

We have a 10-to-25 year BHAG in place, which we have broken down into base-camp objectives.

Our BHAGs are set with understanding, not bravado—in direct alignment with the three circles of the

Hedgehog Concept.

GOOD TO GREAT® DIAGNOSTIC TOOL. DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00. © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. PAGE 17

CLOCK-BUILDING, NOT TIME TELLING

Clock-building has three primary components:

1) Build a system that can be great beyond any single leader or great idea.

2) Create catalytic mechanisms.

3) Manage for the quarter century.

Grade Range:

A = We exemplify this trait exceptionally well—there is limited room for improvement.

B = We often exemplify this trait, but we also have room for improvement.

C = We show some evidence of this trait, but our record is spotty.

D = There is little evidence that we exemplify this trait, and we have obvious contradictions.

F = We operate almost entirely contrary to this trait.

Clock-building, Part 1: Grade:

Build a system that can be great beyond any single leader or great idea. (A, B, C, D, F)

Our chief leader is a clock-builder, not just a time teller—he or she is building a system that can prosper

beyond his or her presence.

Our chief leader is building a great team of strong individuals, rather than acting as a “genius with

1000 helpers” on whom everything depends.

If any individual leader were to disappear tomorrow, our discipline would remain as strong as ever; we

have built a culture of discipline, as distinct from having a larger-than-life disciplinarian at the helm.

We hold our leaders accountable for the success of their successors.

Clock-building, Part 2: Grade:

Create catalytic mechanisms. (A, B, C, D, F)

We have red flag mechanisms that bring brutal facts to our attention, and force us to confront those

facts, no matter how uncomfortable.

We set in place powerful mechanisms that stimulate progress—mechanisms designed to force us to

continually improve.

Our mechanisms are designed so that people who hold power—and who might want to ignore the

brutal facts—cannot easily subvert the mechanisms.

We have a mechanism analogous to “the council” as described in chapter 5 of Good to Great, which

plays a key role in guiding our decisions.

Clock-building, Part 3: Grade:

Manage for the quarter century. (A, B, C, D, F)

No matter what short term pressures we face—Wall Street, financial distress, No Child Left Behind,

pressure for a winning season—we build for long-term greatness; we manage not for the quarter, but

for the quarter century.

Our leaders measure their own success as much by how their organization performs in the hands of a

successor as by how it fares during their own personal reign.

GOOD TO GREAT® DIAGNOSTIC TOOL. DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00. © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. PAGE 18

OUTPUT VARIABLES: HOW GREAT IS YOUR COMPANY?

Grade Range:

A = We exemplify this trait exceptionally well—there is limited room for improvement.

B = We often exemplify this trait, but we also have room for improvement.

C = We show some evidence of this trait, but our record is spotty.

D = There is little evidence that we exemplify this trait, and we have obvious contradictions.

F = We operate almost entirely contrary to this trait.

Delivers Superior Performance: Grade:

(A, B, C, D, F)

In business, performance is defined by financial returns and achievement of corporate purpose. In the

social sectors, performance is defined by results and efficiency in delivering on the social mission.

Makes a Distinctive Impact: Grade:

(A, B, C, D, F)

The organization makes such a unique contribution to the communities it touches and does its work with

such unadulterated excellence that if it were to disappear, it would leave a hole that could not easily be