SOURCE: Diagnostic-Tool.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Jim Collins
TOPIC: People Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of getting the right people in the right positions and having a systematic process for improving people decisions.
KEYWORDS: people decisions, right people, Confront the Brutal Facts
---

[Document: Diagnostic-Tool.pdf]

CONTINUED

First Who—Diagnostic, Part 4: Grade:

Put who before what. (A, B, C, D, F)

When confronted with any problem or opportunity, our natural habit is to translate the decision from a

“what” question (“what should we do?”) into a “who” decision (“who would be the right person to

take responsibility for this?”).

A significant portion of our time is spent in one form or another with people decisions: getting the right

people on the bus, getting the right people in the right seats, getting the wrong people off the bus,

developing people into bigger seats, planning for succession, etc.

We have a disciplined, systematic process for improving our success at getting the right people on the bus.

With each passing year, the percentage of people decisions that turn out good versus bad continues to rise.

GOOD TO GREAT® DIAGNOSTIC TOOL. DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00. © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. PAGE 8

CONFRONT THE BRUTAL FACTS

Confront the Brutal Facts has three primary components:

1) Create a climate where the truth is heard.

2) Get the data.

3) Embrace the Stockdale Paradox.

Grade Range:

A = We exemplify this trait exceptionally well—there is limited room for improvement.

B = We often exemplify this trait, but we also have room for improvement.

C = We show some evidence of this trait, but our record is spotty.

D = There is little evidence that we exemplify this trait, and we have obvious contradictions.

F = We operate almost entirely contrary to this trait.

Confront the Brutal Facts, Part 1: Grade:

Create a climate where the truth is heard. (A, B, C, D, F)

When things go wrong, we conduct “autopsies without blame”—we seek to understand underlying

root causes, rather than pin the blame on an individual.

Our leaders ask a lot of questions, rather than just making statements, thereby creating a climate of

vibrant dialogue and debate about the brutal facts.

Our leaders do not allow their charisma or force of personality to inhibit people from bringing forth

the brutal facts—even if those brutal facts run contrary to the views held by those leaders.

People in our culture are never penalized for bringing forth the brutal facts.

Confront the Brutal Facts, Part 2: Grade:

Get the data. (A, B, C, D, F)

We make excellent use of data, metrics and hard tangible evidence to assess external threats and

internal weakness.

We make particularly good use of trend lines (to see where we are declining) and comparative statistics

(to see where we are falling behind others) to discover and highlight brutal facts.

When people advance a point of view or make an argument, we expect them to marshal evidence,

facts, and rigorous thinking to back up their argument. “It is my opinion” does not qualify as an

acceptable argument.

When someone has a gut instinct that “something is just wrong ,“ we pay attention; instincts can be

good early warning systems. But we don’t just stop there: we then conduct a disciplined, fact-based

assessment of the situation.

Confront the Brutal Facts, Part 3: Grade:

Embrace the Stockdale Paradox. (A, B, C, D, F)

When facing difficult times, we never hold out false hopes soon to be swept away by events.

We are not unrealistic optimists who die of a broken heart when our belief that “it will be better

tomorrow” gets continually shattered on the rocks of reality.

Despite whatever brutal facts we face, we have an unwavering faith that we can and will prevail

in the end.

We believe that greatness is not primarily a function of circumstance; it is a first and foremost a function

of conscious choice—and discipline. It is up to us.

GOOD TO GREAT® DIAGNOSTIC TOOL. DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00. © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. PAGE 9

THE HEDGEHOG CONCEPT

The Hedgehog Concept has three primary components:

1) Keep it simple—be a hedgehog, not a fox.

2) Get your three circles right.

3) Act with understanding, not bravado.

Grade Range:

A = We exemplify this trait exceptionally well—there is limited room for improvement.

B = We often exemplify this trait, but we also have room for improvement.

C = We show some evidence of this trait, but our record is spotty.

D = There is little evidence that we exemplify this trait, and we have obvious contradictions.

F = We operate almost entirely contrary to this trait.

The Hedgehog Concept, Part 1: Grade:

Keep it simple—be a hedgehog, not a fox. (A, B, C, D, F)

If forced to choose between describing us as foxes (crafty creatures that know many things) or

hedgehogs (simpler creatures that know one big thing), we would weigh in with the hedgehogs.

We keep it simple.

We have a simple, coherent strategic concept that we pursue with relentless consistency.

If we have multiple options for how to accomplish an objective, we almost always pick the

simplest option that will work. In other words, at each fork of the road, we tend toward the path

of simplicity, rather than complexity.

The Hedgehog Concept, Part 2: Grade:

Get your three circles right. (A, B, C, D, F)

Our Hedgehog Concept reflects deep understanding of the three circles: 1) what we can be passionate

about, 2) what we can be the best in world at, and 3) what best drives our economic or resource engine.

We understand that nothing great can be accomplished without passion, and we limit our primary arenas

of activity to those for which we have great passion.

We know what we can be the best in the world at. While “best in the world” might be local or

highly-focused, e.g., “best in the world at breaking the cycle of homelessness in Indiana” or “best in

the world at providing financial services to people in Des Moines,” it nonetheless captures what we

can do better than any other institution on the planet.