SOURCE: Diva Internal Memo_Communication Policy Between Support Centre and Store Teams.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Communication Policy
SUMMARY: This internal memo outlines a communication policy between the support center and store teams to ensure efficient, direct, and expedient communication.
KEYWORDS: communication policy, support center, store teams, internal memo
---

DIVA INTERNAL MEMO

COMMUNICATION POLICY BETWEEN SUPPORT CENTRE & STORE TEAMS

From: Eugene Biankin, General Manager

In order to provide a quality service to support both the Support Centre and the Store Teams, Cheryl and I have put together a Communication Policy which we all need to observe.

This is to ensure that the lines of communications are direct, efficient, addressed to the correct area and is expedient.

Support Centre General Weekly Comms to Store

Any communication directly to stores from Support Centre will only go through “In The Pink”, as the policy currently stands.

Support Centre Urgent Ad Hoc Comms to Store

If there is anything Urgent to be communicated to stores from Support Centre, this will be communicated to State and Regional Managers, ccing the GM of Ops. The State & Regional Managers will then be responsible for cascading this information to stores.

Support Centre/Retail Relations

Any general communications from Support Centre to State Managers and/or Regional Managers can be done so. For example, feedback n a prospective campaign/process. However, Support Centre must be mindful of the frequency. This is to avoid these teams receiving phone calls/emails all the time from Support Centre and disrupting them from their own tasks.

General Stores Comms to Support Centre

Stores communicating back to Support Centre should be filtered through either the State or Regional Managers where possible.

This is to avoid Support Centre receiving 194 calls/emails on the same topic. It also allows the Regional and State Manager teams to see patterns across stores so they are aware of the severity of issues.

Collateral Requests

Regional Managers will need to collate any VM or Marketing requests for fixtures/acrylics or signage, so RM’s are aware how many are being ordered to enable costs to be controlled.

The Regional and State Managers should be communicating to the relevant area at Support Centre for an answer and not phone around to other departments for an instant response.

To reiterate contacts for State and Regional Managers to direct feedback to, please see the following:

Planograms/Floor Plans

visualmerchandising@diva.net.au

Pricing

buying@diva.net.au

Markdowns/Merchandise

merchandising@diva.net.au

Contact Person for Merchandise is Allison Berger.

Acrylics

acrylics@diva.net.au

Signage

signage@diva.net.au

PR/Stylist Requests

pr@diva.net.au