SOURCE: E-commerce Metrics and KPIs.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: E-commerce Valuation Drivers
SUMMARY: This text discusses the critical factors for successful and thriving digital brands, including transaction metrics, marketing, customers, and industry dynamics.
KEYWORDS: e-commerce, valuation, digital brands, metrics, KPIs
---

VALUA

TION &

POSITIONING

— Indicated here are the

critical pillars to successful

and thriving digital

brands.

— Many of the top digital

brands possess many of

these qual

positioned to achieve a

premium valuation.

— As Honey Birdette thinks

about its DTC strategy, it

will be important to

determine how best to

deliver on these qualities

and metrics.

E-COMMERCE VALUATION DRIVERS

Transaction Metrics

Marketing

Customers

+

Sustainable

Contribution

Margin

+

Favorable Industry

Dynamics

Discussion Materials for Honey Birdette | August 2020

AOV: ideally increasing, as to minimize impact of increasing CPAs.

UPT: multiple items per basket prove out the demand.

AUR: is discounting utilized to drive both new and repeat demand?

Lillie Value

LTV/ CAC: minimum 2x within 2-3 years, ideally 3x or higher; often most prominent metric.

Distinct, authentic messaging: communicates as a friend, not a corporation.

CPA trends: Stable growth year-to-year and relative to increase in marketing spend.

First order profitability: not just buying revenue, but building a sustainable business.

Channel Diversification: proven success beyond the Facebook ecosystem.

Organic drivers: owned/viral content and media, influencer relationships, and customer engagement.

LTV growth: multi-year progression, no foreseeable ‘cap,’ and recent cohorts performing as strongly

or stronger than prior cohorts.

Top 20% customers: understanding of this customer segment and runway to continue acqu

Retention drivers: need to spend money to entice repeat behavior, or does it occur organically?

High NPS score.

Strong gross margins.

Manageable fulfillment costs.

Low return rates, relative to industry average.

Incumbent, legacy brands have not innovated for many years and are struggling to connect with its

core customers.

Digital brands are rapidly taking market share through innovative strategies, with a clear reason-for-

being, inherent channel-market fit, and demonstrated traction and longevity.

Sizable market opportunity: broad appeal and relevance across multiple geographies and

demographics.

Credible offline potential: room to grow offline, ideal to demonstrate success ahead of an exit.

24