SOURCE: E-mail Management.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Email Management
SUMMARY: Guidelines for effective email management, including limiting email volume, maintaining clarity, and responding in a timely manner.
KEYWORDS: email management, email etiquette, email efficiency, email guidelines, workplace communication
---

ave/tus

GROUP

Dliix< 7

Email Management Guidelines

1. THREE LINKS

Only send, or respond, if the email chain will have less than 3 links. If not, resolve the Issue by phone,

zoom or face to face.

2. CC

CC should be used for information purposes only. CC means no action or response is required.

Set up a ‘cc’ file so your inbox only receives direct emails to you.

3. LIMIT LOW VALUE EMAILS

Limit email volume by thinking twice before hitting ‘reply ali’, responding with ‘thanks’ by exception only,

and using NNTR (no need to respond) when appropriate.

4. CLARITY

Be clear about what the receiver needs to do — read and respond, make corrections, approve,

etc, Include a desired response timeframe, ensure the subject heading reflects the nature of the email and

highlight the important ideas or dates with bold, CAPS, or underline.

5. ACCOUNTABILITY

Be accountable for the work generated for others. Communicate in the most efficient and effective way

for ail parties, even if it means slightly more work for you. Limit open ended questions and minimise

attachments and photos.

6. NO CYA

'f an issue needs to be brought to someone's attention, bring it fo their attention in person or during

a meeting. This can be followed up with an emai! to reiterate the point.

7. KISS

Keep It Simple Silly. Keep e-mails short and simple — people are more likely to read three sentences than

three long paragraphs.

8. RESPONSE TIME

Respond to emails within 1 business day (24 hours). Up to 2 business days (48 hours) is acceptable for

non-urgent emails.

9. BATCHING

Schedule times each day to batch checking and responding to emails. Once in the morning, middle of the

day and afternoon is ideal. Your CC folder can be checked just once at the end of the day.

410. ONE TOUCH EMAILS

Aim to action 80% of emails the first time they are opened.

10 + 1. EMAIL LIMITATIONS

Remember the limitations of email. Do not email if there is potential conflict,

the email could be misinterpreted, or if you want to influence someone to change

their position.

®

»

ae @