SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Internal Communication Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the crucial role of area leaders in effectively communicating information and feedback between store managers and the organization, emphasizing the importance of meetings and the sieve model for communication.
KEYWORDS: area leaders, internal communication, store manager meetings, sieve model, feedback
---

to the store managers will be those pieces of information that may not be

necessary or appropriate for them to know (for example, highly sensitive

information).

The role of area leader requires you to lead with influence, so the way

you communicate to get the right information to the right people at the

right time is crucial. Area leaders are the most important cogs in the

organisation’s wheel. They are the people in a leadership role who have

the most contact with stores and, often, have the most influence.

Changes to products and systems and implementation of those changes

will be a significant part of your role and, if you do that well, managing

expectations and seamlessly implementing new systems, you will save

yourself a lot of time that would otherwise be spent putting out spot fires

and solving problems.

The sieve system from area leaders to store managers should also operate

in the other direction, from area leaders to those providing support and

business functions for the stores. Area leaders need to provide important

feedback from their stores to their own leadership, combining and

communicating information from the stores that will assist with evaluation

of current strategies and formulation of possible future strategies.

Store visits will always provide the best vehicle for you to communicate

with the store manager and in-store team members (see Chapter 8),

however, there are other opportunities for the people of your region to

connect and communicate.

If you want to keep all of your staff engaged and updated regarding

important information affecting the business, store managers need to fully

appreciate the important role they play when it comes to communication.

104

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 10 Strategy 5 Have meetings that matter

There should also be an expectation that the sieve model, from area

leader to store manager, continues so the information is sifted down the

chain again, from the store manager to the rest of the in-store team – so

that everyone in the business receives and understands all the important

information. This could be achieved by store managers having daily

team updates.

Merchandising

Merchandising

Marketing Technology

Marketing Technology

Finance

Finance Product

Product

Area leader

Area leader

Store

managers

Store managers

Sales staff

105

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Meetings that matter

Store manager meetings

Case Study: Neil

I worked with Neil, an area leader who was responsible for eleven retail stores.

Neil and his fellow area leaders had been holding monthly store manager

meetings. However, when the focus of the business began to be to reduce

unnecessary costs, store manager meetings were seen as representing one

of those unnecessary costs and the decision was made to schedule only

quarterly store manager meetings.

As a result of this change, there was a noticeable difference in the level of

connection and sense of community felt across Neil’s region. It impacted

his ability to communicate important information to the stores. If any store

manager missed one meeting, this meant that she or he would not see the

other store managers for six months. Support for each other waned and so

did their results.

Neil believed that the most significant impact on his results had been caused

by the change from monthly to quarterly store manager meetings. He was

supported in this belief by his store managers and by area leaders from other

regions. As a result, Neil’s region, along with those of his peers, reverted to

holding monthly meetings again.

Monthly store manager meetings were no longer seen as an unnecessary

cost to business but as an investment in building strategy, communicating

important information and maintaining a connected environment.

Having well-planned and well-executed monthly store manager meetings

at the start of each month is an important strategy for delivering improved

results. I do understand that making this happen can be challenging, due

to time spent in planning for the meetings and store managers needing

to take time away from their stores, but I do believe that store manager

meetings must happen every month, without exception.

This suggestion will not be popular with some retailers. There will be

resistance based on the store managers’ time away from their stores and

106

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 10 Strategy 5 Have meetings that matter

the cost to the business in extra wages for staff to cover their absence, but

I am convinced that this practice can have the greatest positive impact

on results.

I often hear that store managers within a region might only get together

once or twice a year, mainly due to the cost to the business of doing so

more frequently. This flies in the face of research indicating that we work

better when we feel part of a community or ‘a tribe’. As humans we have a

need to feel connected and part of something bigger than our day-to-day

work. Monthly store manager meetings help achieve this.

At monthly meetings some of the best ideas are shared, relationships are

built and problems are solved. When store managers feel connected, they

will call on each other to ask for and offer advice which will mean that not

every question will need to be answered and not every problem will need

to be solved by you as their area leader.

At monthly meetings, store managers can reflect on the month that was,

celebrate successes, address disappointments and move on, to set goals

for the new month. Once they have worked together to set their goals as a

region and have decided how each individual store will contribute to those

goals, you can spend time working with them all together to formulate

strategies that will assist in delivering each goal that has been agreed upon

for the region.

Without a doubt, the three hours each month spent having a store manager

meeting were always my most crucial hours of the month. Putting time and