SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of clear roles and responsibilities for area leaders and store managers, as well as the need for store managers to have a strong understanding of key business drivers and ownership of their store's results.
KEYWORDS: store management, area leaders, store managers, business acumen, key performance indicators
---

a greater need to focus on marketing and higher sales per customer.

Staffing levels and rosters are a key focus for most retailers and each of

your stores will have different staffing requirements. Therefore, designing

a standard KPI template to help you assess how each store is tracking and

what each store needs will help you to have clear and focused store visits.

Store visit preparation sheet

Once you have a clear impression of each store and its results, you need

to ask yourself:

• ‘What do I want to achieve from visiting this store?’

• ‘What do I need to walk away from the store visit having achieved?’

• ‘What do I need the store manager to know/achieve?’

To help with achieving your desired outcomes, I recommend you design a

‘Store visit preparation’ template to help you prepare to cover everything

you want to cover during the store visit. This template for the store visit will

help you stay on track and ensure you are thorough in your approach, so

you cover everything required.

I preferred to spend time on Mondays completing the templates for my

week of visits ahead and planning the visits for the week.

On the next page is a sample template you might like to use as a guide for

designing your own.

85

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

STORE VISIT PREPARATION SHEET

Store: Date of visit:

What are the specific outcomes I want to achieve from this store visit?

What are the key strategies to follow up from the store managers’ meeting?

What are the KPIs telling me about this store’s results? Which KPIs need my focus?

What specific reports will I need for reference? Is there any additional preparation I

need to do?

Are there any specific questions I need to ask to help me achieve my desired

outcomes?

Who else in the store do I need to speak to/connect with?

How/when will I follow up to ensure desired outcomes are achieved?

This table is available for you to copy from my website: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

STORE MANAGER PREPARATION

I am passionate about everyone in retail stepping up, or ‘levelling up’ – to

put it in video gaming parlance. By this I mean to progress to the next

level. For this to happen area leaders need to do their jobs and allow store

managers to do theirs and grow in their roles.

It is important that the two roles of area leader and store manager are not

confused. Often I see area leaders taking on some of the responsibilities

of store managers which, as I described earlier, can become a source of

frustration for the area leaders and often leaves the store managers feeling

more like caretakers and less like leaders.

If we want our store managers to improve their business acumen and to

take more ownership of their results, this starts with teaching them what

the key drivers of their business are and with being transparent in regard

to their results. We need to allow store managers to feel like true business

leaders, having ownership of their results and the ability to personally

impact them.

86

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 8 Strategy 3 Deliver on your store visits

I recommend that you create another template for each store manager to

complete prior to your visit to her/his store. This template should include

somewhere for store managers to record the KPIs for their stores as well

as questions to consider about their businesses.

Each store manager should complete their preparation sheet prior to your

visit so they are clear about what they hope to achieve from your visit.

STORE MANAGER PREPARATION SHEET

Store: Date of visit:

What specific outcomes do I want to achieve from my time with my area leader?

How are my individual team members performing?

Is there anything regarding team performance that I need to discuss with my area

leader?

What are the KPIs telling me about my store’s results?

Which KPIs need my focus?

What specific reports will I need to show my area leader?

Is there any additional preparation I need to do?

Are there specific questions I need to ask or support I need to request to help me

achieve my desired outcomes?

From a leadership perspective, is there anything with which I need support?

How/when will I follow up to ensure outcomes are achieved?

This table is available for you to copy from my website: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

87

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

MANAGING BRAND STANDARDS

Retailers take pride in their brand. The brand is the way customers

recognise and experience the business. It can include marketing material,

advertising, a logo, the way staff presents to customers, and the appearance

of shopfronts and retail premises. The way merchandise is displayed is a

large part of this. In-season stock needs to be displayed in a prominent

place and stores need to be generally well presented.

It is the area leader’s responsibility to ensure that stores meet brand

requirements, but it is the store manager’s responsibility to ensure the

ongoing upholding and maintenance of brand standards.

Many retailers have their own brand standards checklist. If this has not

been devised and is not in place, I recommend that a brand standards

checklist be designed based on the brand standards of the business. This

checklist should be completed by the store manager prior to the area

leader’s visit so that the area leader can sign off on it if the store fulfils all

the requirements, or can take care of anything that needs addressing if

it doesn’t.

This will mean the store manager takes responsibility for meeting brand

standards and it will save you time during your visit.

Tools for your visit

If you have followed the suggestions I have made, you will now have:

1 a key performance indicators (KPIs) template

2 a store visit preparation sheet