SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses strategies for effectively scheduling and prioritizing store visits as an area leader in retail.
KEYWORDS: store visits, store prioritization, retail management, store leadership, retail strategy
---

Use of these folders creates a more professional business mindset, not

only for an area leader but also for store managers, and it makes following

up much easier for you.

Scheduling your store visits

The way you schedule your store visits does require some thought. There

are a number of ways to plan your schedule.

Store visits are often scheduled with the main consideration being

geography and proximity, which makes sense if your goal is to spend the

least time driving from store to store. But it would be more effective and

efficient to schedule your visits based on where you are needed most.

How you schedule your store visits should be determined by the specific

situation of each of your stores, such as the level of experience of the

store manager, the level of experience of the in-store team and the store’s

recent results. New stores can sometimes require more of your focus than

established stores.

The location of the stores (regional or metropolitan) will also determine

how you schedule your visits. Visits to regional stores sometimes need to

be scheduled based on geography if the visits require significant time on

the road. Regional stores often receive fewer visits due to their location,

which means those visits require even more time and planning so you

make the most of your time when you are there.

What I have found works best is to start by prioritising stores into categories

A, B and C, as described under the headings on the next page.

79

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

PRIORITY A STORES

Priority A stores require a high level of support for a variety of reasons,

which may include the following.

• The store might have a new store manager.

• The store might have a manager that isn’t performing to

expectations.

• The store temporarily might not have a store manager.

• The store might be a new store that has recently opened.

PRIORITY B STORES

Priority B stores require less support than Priority A stores. These are the

stores that:

• have a good level of leadership experience

• maintain very good results

• perform to expectations

• have a settled team.

PRIORITY C STORES

Priority C stores perform very well. They are usually your ‘blue chip’ stores.

They will:

• often be located in major shopping centres

• have managers with a high level of leadership experience

• be able to maintain or exceed expectations

• be busy stores, usually trading seven days per week.

I find that categorising stores according to the criteria above works very

well. From your own experience, you might wish to add some of your own

criteria to these lists as well.

You know best what level of support each of your stores requires, so you

should be well-equipped to allocate your stores to A, B or C priority.

80

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 8 Strategy 3 Deliver on your store visits

Spend some time considering the stores you oversee then, based on the

criteria I have just provided for Priority A, Priority B and Priority C stores,

list each of them in the appropriate column of the table below.

PRIORITY A STORES PRIORITY B STORES PRIORITY C STORES

This table is available for you to copy from my website: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

Scheduling your store visits for the month

Once you have listed your stores and they each have been assigned a

priority, plan your store visits for the month, in the following order.

1 Priority A stores

2 Priority B stores

3 Priority A stores (again)

4 Priority C stores

Naturally, you will schedule your Priority A stores as your first visits for the

month. These visits will be at the start of the month, which is a great time

to set the stores’ daily, weekly and monthly goals and ensure they have a

plan in place with which you can assist and that you are able to follow up.

81

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Priority B stores will be next. It is likely that your visits to these stores will

be mid-month (depending on the number of Priority A stores you need to

visit). Remember, these stores are generally solid performers.

You will then return to your Priority A stores for a follow-up visit to check

on their progress and assist with implementing the plan put in place at the

beginning of the month.

Your visits to your Priority C stores will be later in the month. Remember,

your Priority C stores are your best performing stores, so visiting them later

in the month means you will usually have an opportunity to acknowledge

their positive results for the month.

Following the schedule just described means that you will spend more

time in the stores that require more support and you will be using your

time where it is most needed.

I have been asked whether visiting the Priority C stores towards the end

of every month created a belief in the minds of the store managers that

their stores were not as important as the stores I visited earlier and at

which I spent more time. It is important, to avoid this misconception, to

communicate to the store managers and staff of your Priority C stores that

you visit them later in the month because you have absolute confidence

and trust in them and just want to empower them to get on with the job

they are doing.

Each month, you should spend time reassessing and reprioritising

your stores. A lot can change from month to month, so a store that is a

Priority C store this month could easily become a Priority A store in the

following months.

I am surprised to hear that some area leaders don’t always let the store

managers know when they are going to visit their stores. When I ask why,