SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Environment and Culture
SUMMARY: The text discusses how leaders create the business environment, which in turn shapes the organizational culture, and how the best results are achieved when the environment and strategies work together.
KEYWORDS: business environment, organizational culture, leadership, vision, relationship building
---

a cultural problem, it will have an environment problem – and if a business

has an environment problem then, ultimately, it has a leadership problem.

Le

a

d

e

r

s

h

i

p

Environ m e n t e

C u l t u r

40

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 4 Building the environment

Leaders create the environment and the environment creates the culture.

The more effort put into the environment of your business, the better its

culture will be.

The best results are achieved when the business environment and

strategies are working together. A lot of the strategies that I will share in

this book impact on the environment.

Building an environment of which everyone

wants to be a part

Some of the steps I took when aiming at building an environment that

became the catalyst for turning around results are:

1 a common vision (achieving alignment through storytelling)

2 building and valuing relationships

3 harnessing connection

4 creating ownership

5 valuing and appreciating people (all of them).

I will elaborate further on each of these steps on the pages following

and also in Chapter 5, ‘Building strategies’, so that you can see how the

business environment and business strategies work together.

1 A common vision (achieving alignment through

storytelling)

I felt I needed to create a shared vision for my region and for what the

region stood. For the vision to be something which everyone in my region

could relate to, focus on and believe in, it also needed a compelling story

to support it.

This vision and its back story would be crucial for setting the standards and

behaviours I expected and that would build our success.

The vision supported by almost every other business I had seen was

focused on the business itself and where that business was heading, but I

felt that I needed to create something that was about people – a vision that

was about working together to build something special. Our vision had to

41

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

be represented by more than just a bunch of statements that looked good

on the wall. The following is the original unedited version of what became

<Take in Crabb A/W 16 (Treat the scanned

the shared vision of my region and the story behind it.

document supplied in the artwork brief as realia.

It is a scan of the original text Alison used to

establish the region’s ‘vision’ so can look like it OUR VISION: ‘IT TAKES A VILLAGE TO RAISE A CHILD’

is on a slightly weathered piece of paper, slightly

angled on the page. Give the impression it is a

real, used document. It must fall directly under

the C heading above this instruction and might

need a whole page for it and the heading. The

previous page can fall a bit short if that needs to

happen>

42

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 4 Building the environment

The message of the African proverb that inspired this ‘vision’ means that

an entire community of people must interact supportively with children for

those children to grow and experience a safe and healthy environment.

This vision is about support for each other, not about a paternalistic

dominant authoritarian leadership style. We are all adults, not even

metaphoric children, but establishing a strong community support network

helps us to all be better adults and meet our adult responsibilities.

This vision drove every decision we made in the region and created the

standards we all came to expect of ourselves and of each other. Our vision

was communicated, utilised and reinforced at every opportunity when we

were together.

2 Building and valuing relationships

Initially, every one of my store visits was focused on building relationships.

I felt this was imperative for turning around results.

In order for me to get everyone on board with new strategies, behaviours

and standards, I first needed store managers and consultants to trust

me. Trust would only be built if I invested time in building relationships

with everyone, from the most experienced store manager to the newest

consultant. I invested time in getting to know each person during one-

on-one discussions. Initially, I did not ask each of them much about their

work role but more about themselves: their motivations; and their hopes

and dreams for their careers. I learnt about their families and their lives

outside of work, as well as sharing with them a lot about my own life and

my passions. I related this back to my own experience as a novice travel

consultant and the impactful conversations Geoff Harris had with me. It

was the care Geoff had showed for me and the leadership that he had

modelled to me that taught me the importance of this kind of interaction

as a valuable strategy.

3 Harnessing connection

Not only was it crucial for me to develop trusting relationships with store

managers and consultants, it was crucial that store managers had trusting

relationships with each other and with their teams.

43

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

I believe that area leaders can spend too much time dealing with people

problems – whether the problems be conflict, performance or relationship

issues within teams, all of these prevent the establishment of a connected

environment and are a cause of teams not working together. I believe that

most staff turnover is due to unhealthy relationships within the workplace

environment. Whether the relationship issue is with a team member or the

team leader, if there is a lack of connection and trust, people will leave.

A group of store managers who are cohesive and aligned to a shared

vision and goals will have an enormously positive impact on the whole

environment in your region.

I found ways to ensure that the store managers spent time together, not

only working on their business but also building connections with each