SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Management Strategies
SUMMARY: The text discusses effective strategies for retail store manager meetings and assistant store manager meetings to implement new systems, communicate initiatives, and develop future leaders.
KEYWORDS: store manager meetings, assistant manager meetings, succession planning, leadership development, retail strategies
---

strategies that will assist in delivering each goal that has been agreed upon

for the region.

Without a doubt, the three hours each month spent having a store manager

meeting were always my most crucial hours of the month. Putting time and

effort into them was time well spent. I would always remind myself of my

own sales budget goal for the month ahead and that this was how much

my store manager meeting was actually worth to my region.

I would make notes throughout the month and, at the end of the month,

I would plan the next month’s store manager meeting. I would reflect on:

• ‘With what do I want my store managers to walk away from

this meeting?’

• ‘On what do I need to focus to achieve this?’

• ‘What preparation do I need to do for the meeting?’

• ‘What preparation do my store managers need to do for

the meeting?’

107

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Your monthly store manager meetings also provide you with your best

opportunity to implement new systems and strategies, and to communicate

important product and marketing initiatives. Various head office/support

staff can attend the meetings and present any necessary information to all

the store managers from the region at once, which is a far more efficient

use of their time. Store managers who might have the same questions

will have them all answered at once and all the information will be better

communicated to them, which will improve implementation.

Assistant store manager meetings

If you are looking for ways to improve your succession planning and

development of future leaders (see Chapter 12), assistant store manager

meetings can play an important role in helping you to recognise future

leaders. Appointment of sales staff to future leadership roles might be

based on informal assessments made at these meetings.

The meetings provide an opportunity to communicate strategies

consistent with those of the whole business and consistent with what you

are communicating to your store managers. Having these meetings with

assistant store managers highlights to them that you value them and that

you are invested in their development. You will be amazed at the level of

discretionary effort you get from your assistant store managers when they

feel valued.

Assistant store manager meetings can be used as training and leadership

development sessions. They are a great way to identify when assistant

managers are ready to step up and lead their own stores. Investing time

and money into assistant managers will pay dividends at a later date, when

you are looking to fill store manager roles (more on this in Chapter 12).

Focus groups

Courage is what it takes to stand up and speak; courage is also what

it takes to sit down and listen.

Winston Churchill

Focus groups are a fabulous way to gain feedback. Inviting a group of

individuals from across your region to provide you with feedback on a

particular topic will not only enable you to accumulate valuable insights

and information but also improve engagement across the region.

108

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 10 Strategy 5 Have meetings that matter

I would regularly facilitate quarterly focus groups of approximately a

dozen people from my region. I would decide on a particular topic and

invite people I felt were in a position to provide feedback on that topic.

Occasionally, I might have a general focus group and ask the questions,

‘As an organisation, what do we do well?’, and ‘What can we do better?’

For a focus group topic, you might select a particular strategy that you are

aware needs work in your region or across the organisation. You might

want to explore a product strategy for launching a new product. Or, if you

are experiencing high staff turnover among your casual staff, you might

want to invite a group of casuals to better understand why this could be

happening and what could be done to improve their experience.

When staff are invited to focus groups, it makes them feel valued and

heard. It elevates their level of engagement because it is interpreted by

them as you showing you care about them and what they have to say.

109

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Strategy 5 Have meetings that matter:

Light bulbs

Type here

110

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Strategy 5 Have meetings that matter:

Actions

Type here

111

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 11

STR 6A TE

G

Y

• •

Develop your business acumen

When we think about business acumen, we tend to think about the

numbers or the KPIs. These might include sales figures, conversion rates,

margins, customer satisfaction or net promoter scores (NPS), costs, and

results from staff engagement surveys, etc. These all provide an important

window into understanding your region and its results and are crucial if you

want to know where to focus when planning and implementing strategies.

I like to think that these numbers, as well as reflecting financial results,

are a measure of how well you are looking after your people and your

customers.

I have already written earlier about the importance of knowing your

numbers and results in order to have effective store visits, so I don’t intend

focusing on the financial side of business here. There is no doubt that time

invested on strategies that are within your control and that impact on your

results is time well spent and will serve you and your organisation well.

From a retailer’s perspective, there are other areas that I believe should

demand your focus if you want to favourably impact your results.

Invest in all of your people

People aren’t where you save money, they are where you should invest

money. Recently, I attended a two-day national retailers’ conference.

It was a very well-organised event and was well-attended but, when it

came to retail strategy, a great amount of the focus was directed towards