SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Leadership
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies and best practices for area leaders in the retail industry to create a positive business environment and empower their teams.
KEYWORDS: retail management, business environment, leadership strategies, employee engagement, store operations
---

the issues you face in your role.

If you are not achieving what you want to achieve in the role, I hope

you have found some answers in the pages of this book. But, from my

own experience, the best place to start is focusing on improving the

environment within your region. Building a great business starts with the

business environment but, often, this aspect is the most neglected.

The role of every business leader should be to create an environment of

which everyone wants to be a part; an environment in which people feel

valued, appreciated and part of a community. To achieve this, there is a

need for leaders to learn the softer skills of leadership, such as empathy

and an understanding of the importance of relationships and connection.

All of the following are important in building a healthy business

environment:

1 a common vision

2 building/valuing relationships

3 harnessing connection

130

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 13 Conclusion

4 creating ownership

5 valuing and appreciating people (all of them).

When you have the right environment, implementing strategies becomes

easier because your teams are happy, engaged and want the organisation

to do well.

Key strategies I have found to work for an area leader are:

• Strategy 1: Prioritise and manage your time (see Chapter 6)

Allow time for the unexpected and don’t overschedule your time;

avoid spending an unwarranted amount of time in stores; spend

time planning, preparing and establishing key outcomes for store

visits; and prioritise your activities.

• Strategy 2: Maximise your store visits (see Chapter 7)

The best results occur when store managers are allowed to develop

into true business leaders, taking spiritual and psychological

ownership of their stores. Allow and encourage them to do this

when you visit their stores.

• Strategy 3: Deliver on your store visits (see Chapter 8)

It is the quality not the quantity of store visits that matters. Be

prepared and organised; carefully schedule and prioritise the stores

you need to visit; prepare a business folder for each store; be clear

of purpose; and follow up on the implementation of strategies

discussed at the visits.

• Strategy 4: Engage your part-time workforce (see Chapter 9)

Aim at making all staff, including the casual and part-time

employees, feel valued, appreciated and cared about.

• Strategy 5: Have meetings that matter (see Chapter 10)

Get the right information to the right people at the right time. Area

leaders are responsible for ensuring all of the important information

from various parts of the business reach the store managers so that

they are all informed.

• Strategy 6: Develop your business acumen (see Chapter 11)

Invest in all of your people; invest in locations, value your shopfront,

and realise that understaffing is costly. Realise the impact that the

choices you make or don’t make can have on results.

131

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

• Strategy 7: Develop your future leaders (see Chapter 12)

Succession planning and development of future leaders is important

for the future of your organisation.

Results are what we are all in business to achieve. However, as much as we

want to achieve those results, they are really the outcome of how well we

manage to provide a happy and productive workplace environment and

how well we can implement our strategies.

Whether your organisation has a focus on developing area leaders or

not, you can take responsibility for your own development. I have always

focused on my own personal and professional development, rather than

waiting for the organisation employing me to take on that responsibility.

Regardless of your budget there is a lot you can do to develop yourself as

a business leader, such as: read books (like this one), listen to podcasts,

find mentors within your own organisation, engage a leadership coach

or seek suitable training from an expert in the specific skills you want to

development.

This book was designed as a practical guide, containing lots of strategies

to help you. It might be helpful to go back and reread the whole book or

to reread certain sections containing the information on which you want

to focus. If you have taken the opportunity to fill in your ‘Light bulbs’ and

‘Actions’ at the end of the chapters throughout this book, you already have

some specific areas to reflect on and strategies to implement.

I sincerely hope that I have been able to convey to you the important role

you play in your organisation and that you are worth investing in. Now,

more than ever, retail needs great leadership!

132

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Afterword: Work with me

My hope is that reading this book might be the catalyst you needed to

make a change in the way you lead. If change for the better is what you

seek, then implementing some of what you have read here will assist.

I am committed to working with retail managers and leaders to deliver

genuine growth in the people they employ and to deliver results for their

businesses.

If you would like to develop your skills as an area leader further, I extend

an invitation for you to work with me. You can do this in a range of ways.

All of the information in this book can be unpacked and developed further

through a range of webinars, workshops, programs and one-on-one

coaching sessions provided by Alison Crabb Consulting.

If you are part of a larger retailer network and would like to discuss a

bespoke program for your retail leadership team, please get in touch.

Visit my website: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

Contact me: alison@alisoncrabb.com.au

MENTOR AND COACHING PROGRAMS

A feature of great leaders is that they never stop learning. Mentorship and

coaching for leaders is a sound business investment which can positively

impact on your entire organisation and the people you lead.

While the specific challenges faced by individual leaders vary, the one-on-