SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Management and Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for area leaders to improve the staff experience, which in turn impacts the customer experience, through time management, store visits, workforce engagement, meetings, and leadership development.
KEYWORDS: employee engagement, staff experience, customer experience, leadership development, business strategies
---

or how to improve your customer service. That is not to say that I don’t

believe this to be important. I am a believer that the customer experience

can only improve if the staff experience is focused on first. What matters to

customers is how they are treated by staff. When morale is high and staff

feel valued and appreciated for the work they do, that has the greatest

impact on how well they look after customers. Area leaders are in a position

to have the biggest impact on the staff experience, which also impacts on

the customer experience.

In the following chapters, I will share some of the most effective key

strategies, which have proven to work. Each chapter is dedicated to one

of the following strategies.

• Strategy 1: Prioritise and manage your time (Chapter 6)

• Strategy 2: Maximise your store visits (Chapter 7)

• Strategy 3: Deliver on your store visits (Chapter 8)

• Strategy 4: Engage your part-time workforce (Chapter 9)

• Strategy 5: Have meetings that matter (Chapter 10)

• Strategy 6: Develop your business acumen (Chapter 11)

• Strategy 7: Develop your future leaders (Chapter 12)

As you read each of these chapters, it would be helpful for you to have the

right mindset. Author Carol Dweck, is ‘a pioneering researcher in the field

of motivation, why people succeed (or don’t) and how to foster success’

(https://www.ted.com/speakers/carol_dweck). She is a respected expert

when it comes to mindset and believes we either have a ‘fixed mindset’ or

a ‘growth mindset’.

50

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 5 Building strategies

A ‘fixed mindset’ refers to the belief that we only have a certain skillset and

are only capable of what comes naturally. For example, if you are a good

swimmer but not a good runner, then a fixed mindset would accept that is

just how it is – it’s how you were born and you can’t really do much about it.

This mindset means that there is no opportunity to change or to improve.

A ‘growth mindset’ refers to the state of mind in which our beliefs tell us

that we can keep growing and developing if we are open to change and

looking for possibilities. If we are open and prepared to try something

different, then we have the capacity to improve and grow.

As you read through each of the following chapters it would be helpful

to adopt a growth mindset and be open to thinking about how you could

try implementing some of the strategies discussed. Not only would this

mindset be helpful for you in your role, but it would also benefit your store

managers to open their minds to the same possibilities.

If you are delivering great results already, then I would say that what you

are doing is working fine and the following chapters might just represent

an interesting read, or might provide the icing for an already ‘well-baked

cake’. But, no matter how good your current results are, if you feel you have

the potential to achieve better results, whether that be an improvement in

your time management or an improvement in your financial results, then

having a growth mindset will be helpful as you read the next chapters.

51

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Building strategies:

Light bulbs

Type here

52

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Building strategies:

Actions

Type here

53

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 6

STR 1ATE

G

Y

• •

Prioritise and manage

your time

Case Study: Vivian

I worked with Vivian, an area leader for a national mid-sized fashion retailer.

In her region, Vivian was responsible for seventeen stores across New

South Wales. She loved her job, was passionate about her brand and was

committed to its success, but she was burnt out and exhausted.

She and I worked together to determine what was causing her to feel burnt

out. The answer was that, when she described herself performing her job, what

she was describing resembled the description of someone who was working

two full-time jobs. Her day job was to visit stores and her evening job was to

respond to emails, send updates to her stores and complete KPI reports.

Vivian was working up to fourteen hours a day and recognised that this was

not sustainable. It was also not how she wanted to work, because it was

impacting her family life and her health. It surprised her to find that working

all of those hours did not appear to be improving her results.

Vivian admitted to working the hours she did so she would be perceived as

a good area leader. She felt she needed to be visible to all of the staff in her

stores and wouldn’t leave a store before closing time even though she had

mountains of work-related tasks to complete when she got home. She did

not want store managers and sales staff to perceive her as not working as

hard or as long as they did.

By working so many hours, Vivian was making her role appear unattractive

to store managers who might otherwise aspire to step up and become area

leaders themselves. She was unintentionally indicating that area leaders

needed to work day and night to get the job done. This was a lose/lose

situation for everyone.

55

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Traps for area leaders

I have worked with hundreds of area leaders and I have found that there

are some common mistakes many area leaders make when it comes to

how they spend their time. Some of the common issues I have seen are:

• they overschedule their time and don’t allow time for the

unexpected

• they are obsessed with spending an unwarranted amount of

time in stores

• they don’t spend time planning, preparing and establishing key

outcomes for each store visit

• they don’t prioritise their activities.

Let’s now look at each of these in more detail.