SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Environment Strategy
SUMMARY: This text discusses how the business environment provides the foundation for a successful strategy, with the strength of the environment impacting the implementation and results.
KEYWORDS: business environment, strategy implementation, organizational health, performance pyramid
---

3000 BCE. Historical analysis tells us that they took 85 years to build. It is

incredible that, thousands of years later, they are still standing in all their

magnificence. But the reason they are still standing is that they were built

on very strong foundations – a solid limestone rock plateau under the sand,

with solid limestone and granite blocks used for the construction. The

Egyptians knew the pyramid shape to be stable and strong and it is the

strong foundations and the use of that strong stable shape for construction

that has kept the pyramids standing to this day.

I will never forget seeing the pyramids for the first time and the profound

effect it had on me.

I see the leading of great teams in business as being very similar to the

building of a pyramid.

Results

Strategy

Environment

25

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

The foundation of a business needs to be built by focusing on the business

environment first. It is the environment that provides the foundation for

the strategy that will then be formulated. The strength of the business

environment has a great impact on how well a business strategy can be

designed and implemented. Results are achieved based on the success

of the environment’s foundation as well as on the strategy implemented.

Let’s look at each of the layers of the performance ‘pyramid’ in more detail.

The environment

Results

In business, or in any aspect of life, great teams

Strategy

must be built on stable strong foundations. In

retail business, these foundations are part of Environment

what I call the business ‘environment’.

The ‘environment’ of any team or business is often intangible – something

that you can feel, but you can’t touch or quantify. It might be hard to

describe or explain but, if you pay attention when asking someone what

they love about their job, the answer usually relates to the environment. It

will most likely include a description of how they feel about the organisation

and the leader for whom they work.

In his book The Advantage: Why organizational health trumps everything

else in business (Jossey-Bass; Wiley, San Francisco, CA, 2012), Patrick

Lencioni calls what I call the ‘environment’ the ‘health’ of the organisation.

Lencioni says of organisational health (on page 3 of his book) that:

It’s not at all touchy-feely, and it’s far bigger and more important than

mere culture. More than a side dish or a flavor enhancer for the real

meat and potatoes of business, it is the very plate on which the meat

and potatoes sit.

I will never forget my very first one-on-one discussion with Flight Centre

Travel Group’s co-founder Geoff Harris when I first joined the company in

1990. I was only into my third week on the job and had never worked in

travel before, so I was still learning all of the systems and products and

getting to know my team. Geoff was visiting my store and, after spending

time with my store manager, he asked if he and I could leave the store for

26

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 3 The performance pyramid

a coffee. I was a little nervous and wondered why on Earth the ‘big boss’

wanted to speak with me. I was the newest member of the team and was

just hoping that I hadn’t done anything wrong.

Geoff proceeded to ask me a lot of questions, not so much about the job

but about me – as a person. We discovered we both had a love of sport, in

particular AFL football. He asked me about my goals and aspirations and

where I wanted to take my career. To be honest, I had never really thought

about it before but, if I’d had any doubts about my decision to join the

company, they were alleviated within fifteen minutes of that conversation.

From that moment on, I was all in.

Geoff would visit each store once a month and, after spending time with

the store manager, would always spend time one-on-one with various

team members.

In about my third month, Geoff and I had another coffee. This time he

asked me for feedback. He said, ‘Now that you have been around for a

few months, I am interested to know, what you think we can do better as

a business.’

I thought about it for a couple of minutes. During my days at university I

had worked part-time for a fashion retailer. Each week the store window

displays would be changed to feature new stock. At the beginning of each

week, I would look forward to arriving at the store to see what was in the

new window displays.

I shared this with Geoff, saying, ‘As retailers of travel, I don’t think we

maximise the opportunities offered by our store windows.’ He slowly began

to nod in response and started writing notes about what I was saying.

Within weeks, store windows across all fourteen Victorian Flight Centre

stores had new window banners that were rotated monthly.

I felt really gratified that an idea from a three-month employee had been

taken on board and implemented. I felt valued, appreciated and listened

to. I also knew that this experience would be something I would never

forget and it became a core contributor to my own leadership philosophy.

I am convinced that building a great business must start with the business

environment but, often, this aspect is the most neglected. If you want

27

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

to attract great people to your organisation it is necessary to have an

environment in which people want to work. How people feel about the

environment of the business will determine how engaged they are when

working in it and whether they will choose to stay or to leave your business.

Concentrating on sales and KPIs will never attract the best people or help