SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Strategy and Investment
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of investing in people and prime business locations over technology and data systems for improving retail results.
KEYWORDS: retail strategy, employee investment, business location, customer experience, leadership
---

People aren’t where you save money, they are where you should invest

money. Recently, I attended a two-day national retailers’ conference.

It was a very well-organised event and was well-attended but, when it

came to retail strategy, a great amount of the focus was directed towards

technology, customer data and logistic systems. Over the two days of

the conference, only a one-hour session was focused on people and

leadership, which I found extremely disappointing. Having state-of-the-

113

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

art technology, tracking your customer data and having efficient logistic

systems are all important, but nothing happens with any of that without

great leadership. From my perspective, that is what matters more than

anything if you want to improve your results.

Invest in your locations

I understand the pressure that retailers are under when faced with

increasing rents. I also understand that shopping centres need to achieve

their revenue budgets and often have unrealistic expectations concerning

annual rent increases and the ability of their tenants to pay. This all puts

enormous pressures on retail costs.

As a result, many retailers look at ways of reducing their rental costs. One

solution is to relocate to a cheaper location. This is evident when you

consider the turnover of retailers and the number of vacant stores in major

shopping centres, and the relocation of stores to cheaper, less prominent

sites within the centre or on a community strip location.

High rents are usually high for a reason. Premises for which the highest

rents are charged are usually located in busy shopping centres and are

exposed to the most foot traffic, or have the largest shopfront and the

best layout. Investing in a prime business location is the best marketing

investment in that business that can be made.

That is not to say that rental increases should always be accepted, but

there are ways to work around this.

The responsibility for leasing may not be part of many area leaders’

roles, but it is still important that you spend some of your time gaining

an understanding of leasing, leasing arrangements and the fact that not

all leases are created equal. Paying for a good location can be the best

marketing investment that can be made for a business.

114

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 11 Strategy 6 Develop your business acumen

Case Study: Location is important

I was a regular customer at a small women’s fashion boutique. It was located

on a very busy shopping strip across from a train station, surrounded by

buzzing cafés, homeware stores and a very popular day spa. I would wander

past on my way to the day spa for my monthly facial and, invariably, would

notice something I liked in the window, which would tempt me into the store.

Bingo! The retailer would have made a sale!

When I popped in on one occasion, I was surprised to be informed that

the retailer was relocating the store because the landlord was increasing

her rent and, at her new location, she could save 50% of what she was

currently paying.

I spoke to her about the decision and the dangers that it might prove to have

for her business. I suggested that she should try to renegotiate further with

her landlord or, at least, attempt to find another location in the shopping

strip in which the store was already situated.

She was confident that she had a loyal clientele and that they would follow

her. She believed the money she would save on rent would help her improve

her bottom line.

The new location was on a busy road. However, it only had one other retail

store, located next to her – and that was a dog grooming business.

Within twelve months I received a text from her inviting me to her ‘closing

down sale’.

I was very disappointed for this retailer because she had a great range of

women’s fashion and did have a loyal clientele.

There had been a couple of times when I had made a special trip to the store

if I had needed something for a particular occasion, but most of my purchases

had resulted from me just happening to walk by and noticing something in

the window. My purchases had largely been impulse purchases.

115

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Value your shopfront

If higher rents are being paid for prominent store locations, it is important

to understand that, ultimately, it is the exposure of the shopfront that is

being paid for. It is the store’s shopfront that will often entice a customer

to walk into the store, so the shopfront needs to be valued and utilised to

best advantage to ensure the business is getting value for the rent being

paid. This means a very strategic approach to what is displayed, ensuring

that you display and promote merchandise which your customers are

likely to buy.

Case Study: Appeal to what customers want to buy

Recently, I was visiting a coastal Victorian town and noticed in the main street

that the local travel agent had a large display in the window promoting tours

to South America.

Now this is not to say that South America is not a place people aspire to visit.

I admit some people want to travel there, but I am not too sure how many

enquiries this promotion would have attracted from passers-by, because

there are many other, more popular, destinations to which Australians are

more likely to travel.

I was back three months later to see the same display in the same shopfront.

It is important to use your shopfront to attract customers, by advertising what

they want to buy rather than what you want to sell.

It is also important to have a welcoming shopfront. The aim is to attract

customers into the store. Stores in shopping strip locations should ALWAYS