SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Time Management and Business Planning
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of prioritizing and managing time effectively as an area leader in retail, including dedicating time for unexpected events, working on business (WOB) days, and planning weekly activities.
KEYWORDS: time management, business planning, KPI analysis, store visits, unexpected events
---

the unexpected. This might include important recruitment interviews,

62

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 6 Strategy  Prioritise and manage your time

dealing with a challenge or issue at a store, or an unexpected unscheduled

meeting. If you are lucky enough to avoid any unexpected demands

cropping up on your Friday, you can use the day to visit a store that

needs additional support, or use the time for follow up or to work with a

particular individual or team. I know there is always something to do and

creating spare time ahead of when that time might be needed is better

than cancelling a pre-arranged store visit to make the necessary free time.

WORKING ON BUSINESS (WOB) DAYS – ONE DAY PER MONTH

Working on business (WOB) days are business planning and reflection

days (as opposed to the regular ‘working in the business’ days of your area

leader role dealing with stores). These are days you allocate for looking

at your results as a whole. They provide a chance to step back and assess

things from a distance.

To do this effectively, I recommend you need one day per month – either

on the last day of the month or the first day of the new month, depending

on how quickly you can gain access to important KPI reports and results

that will provide you with the information to not only see your region’s

results but to understand how they were achieved, regardless of whether

the results were pleasing or disappointing.

Here are some questions to consider that might help you.

• What positive KPI results did your region achieve?

• Which KPIs results were disappointing and what indications of them

did you miss?

• How does your staffing look? Are there vacancies you need to fill?

• What leadership positions do you have vacant, if any?

• What is your plan to fill any leadership vacancies?

• Does the filling of vacancies require your focus this month?

• Of which stores/results are you most proud?

• Which specific results do you find disappointing?

• What are some key areas on which you should focus for the new

month/season?

63

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Your answers to these questions will help you formulate some of the focus

areas for your store visits and store manager meetings for the new month.

This process will also indicate the stores and individuals you need to

reward and recognise.

I guarantee that investing your time in doing this will pay huge dividends.

Not only will you feel more in control of your business, you will have better

quality conversations with your teams and will spend more time focusing

on the things that matter. This will increase your confidence, enhance your

business acumen and improve your results.

Your week

Remember, when planning each week, I recommend that Mondays are for

working on your business and planning your store visits for the week, while

Fridays should be kept free for the unexpected. So, this leaves you three

days for store visits.

When it comes to planning your schedule of store visits, Chapters 7 and

8 focus on how to schedule, plan, prepare and execute great store visits.

Your day

Based on the monthly and weekly schedules already described, most

weeks you will have three days for store visits. This thought might make

you anxious because you could be accustomed to spending most of your

time visiting stores – perhaps as many as four or five days per week.

When you have learnt to plan, prepare and execute efficient and successful

visits you will see that it is the quality of the visits and not the quantity that

makes the biggest difference to your results.

Depending on your store locations, I recommend you visit one store per

day, or no more than two stores on any one day.

Once you learn to take control and strategically think about how to

schedule your time, you will start to see benefits quickly. You will be able

to think more clearly, be more outcome focused and will not feel as though

you are constantly rushing from place to place.

64

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Strategy  Prioritise and manage your time:

Light bulbs

Type here

65

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Strategy  Prioritise and manage your time:

Actions

Type here

66

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 7

STR 2A TE

G

Y

• •

Maximise your store visits

Case Study: Helen

I worked with Helen, an area leader for a mid-sized national retailer. Although

Helen was based in Western Australia and was responsible for eight stores

there, she was also responsible for five stores in South Australia.

I asked her about the results from each of the two states. What fascinated me

was that Helen’s South Australian stores were significantly outperforming the

Western Australian stores, even though she was responsible for more stores

in Western Australia. Sales were higher in South Australia, staff retention was

better and there seemed to be far fewer issues with which to deal generally.

As we spoke in more depth, I asked Helen a lot of questions so she could

reflect and identify why there might be such a difference in results and,

more importantly, what was creating that difference. I was interested to

know how she was leading her Western Australian stores compared to her

South Australian stores. Below is a brief outline of her feedback on each of

the states.

Western Australia

Being based in Western Australia it was easy for Helen to visit the stores

regularly. She visited each store at least once a week; usually visiting two

stores on most days. Her greatest frustration was feeling that she was

constantly running from store to store, ‘putting out fires’ and spending a

great deal of time dealing with people problems.

It was a struggle to keep staff for long, so Helen was also spending a great