SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of communicating store visit schedules to store managers, preparing efficiently for store visits, and focusing on key performance indicators (KPIs) to improve store performance.
KEYWORDS: store visits, store management, key performance indicators, retail leadership, store preparation
---

Priority C store this month could easily become a Priority A store in the

following months.

I am surprised to hear that some area leaders don’t always let the store

managers know when they are going to visit their stores. When I ask why,

I am usually told it is in order to surprise the store managers so that the

area leaders can see what is ‘really’ going on in stores, or else these area

leaders don’t like to work to a schedule in case unexpected things crop up

and they can’t get to a store as planned.

It is almost impossible for a store visit to be effective and purposeful if the

store manager isn’t aware of it beforehand and is, therefore, unprepared.

82

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 8 Strategy 3 Deliver on your store visits

Once you have scheduled your visits, it is important that you communicate

the schedule to all of your store managers and their teams. This will ensure

that your store managers can prepare for your visit and they will usually

have the store looking fabulous because they want to impress you.

It also means that the store can be adequately staffed in advance so you

will be able to spend quality time with the store manager and members

of the in-store team.

Preparing for your store visits

The saying that ‘Time is money’ is certainly true when it comes to store

visits. Area leaders spend up to 80% of their time conducting store visits,

so it makes sense that, if you want to improve your results, preparing

yourself efficiently for your store visits is essential.

Following the suggestions I have made will require a bigger focus on your

preparation for store visits and will require you to have a clear purpose

and a clear idea of the outcomes you want to be achieved. It is often our

mindset that needs addressing and changing first when it comes to the

discipline of spending time on preparation.

If your store managers are made aware you will be visiting, they can also

prepare so the most is made of the time you spend with them.

As you start to prepare using some of the strategies I have described,

ask yourself:

• ‘What are my region’s profit or sales targets for the month?’

• ‘How much is each of my stores contributing to my overall target for

the region?’

If you have a sales target of $500,000 for the month and one of your stores

has a target of $50,000, that store visit is worth 10% of your overall monthly

target. When you can interpret each of your store visits in this way, it will

help to change your mindset, the way in which you prepare and how much

value you place on each visit.

Here are some key areas on which to focus when preparing for each

store visit.

• Look at the store’s KPIs.

83

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

• Store manager preparation.

• Managing brand standards.

These areas of focus will now be discussed in more detail.

LOOK AT EACH STORE’S KPIS

I have always said that ‘KPIs don’t lie’. Performance indicators will tell the

story of what is going on in your region and in each of your stores. The

better you can get to know these numbers, the better you can implement

specific strategies to improve results.

The key performance indicator (KPI) template

I recommend designing a standard KPI template that you can use in your

preparation for each store visit. If you are part of a team of area leaders,

this might be something you can create together.

Whenever I am working with area leaders, whether it be one-on-one or

with a whole group of area leaders together, we spend time designing a

KPI template specific to each of their businesses. This makes an enormous

difference to the quality of store visits and the business acumen of

area leaders.

Once you have designed your own template, you can amend it and perfect

it as you become more comfortable using it.

Your KPI template might include such KPIs as:

• sales – last year’s figures, figures to date for the current year and

forecasts for the rest of the current year

• margins – last year’s figures, figures to date for the current year and

forecasts for the rest of the current year

• costs – last year’s figures, figures to date for the current year and

forecasts for the rest of the current year

• customer reports

• staff reports.

Whatever the measures recorded for your business, take the time to

familiarise yourself with the details, so you know the numbers.

84

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 8 Strategy 3 Deliver on your store visits

I always preferred to handwrite the KPIs of each of my stores on my

template. I am not a fan of fancy systems and spreadsheet software that

will populate tables of figures for you because this inhibits your ability to

develop your business acumen. Handwriting the numbers helps to teach

you the key drivers of your business and improves your business acumen

and understanding, which is essential for your growth in your role.

Each store is unique and needs to be treated differently (remember the

Priority A, B and C stores). It is likely that there will be a slightly different

focus for each of your stores. For example, busy shopping centre stores

might have a greater need to focus on achieving high volumes of sales

and high volumes of customers, while community strip stores might have

a greater need to focus on marketing and higher sales per customer.

Staffing levels and rosters are a key focus for most retailers and each of

your stores will have different staffing requirements. Therefore, designing

a standard KPI template to help you assess how each store is tracking and