SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Time Management for Retail Area Leaders
SUMMARY: This text discusses the common pitfalls of area leaders in retail, including overscheduling, spending too much time in stores, and lack of planning and preparation for store visits.
KEYWORDS: time management, store visits, planning, overscheduling, retail leadership
---

unexpected

• they are obsessed with spending an unwarranted amount of

time in stores

• they don’t spend time planning, preparing and establishing key

outcomes for each store visit

• they don’t prioritise their activities.

Let’s now look at each of these in more detail.

Overscheduling and not allowing time for the unexpected

Area leaders can fall into the trap of overscheduling – not allowing time and

space to plan and work on their business, or to deal with the unexpected.

They can be beyond busy, going from store to store and filling their diaries

to an unworkable and unrealistic capacity, causing themselves additional

(but avoidable) stress.

Nothing disappoints store managers more than a call from their area leader

to say she or he has been held up, or something urgent has cropped up

elsewhere and the anticipated store visit needs to be rescheduled.

Obsession with spending unwarranted amounts of time

in stores

There is no doubt that area leaders assert the greatest influence when

dealing directly with the teams in their stores. But the focus needs to be

on the quality of those store visits, not the quantity.

Area leaders can develop a mindset that the more time they spend in

stores the better they are doing their jobs and the better the support is that

they are providing. There is no evidence supporting this misapprehension

that a store’s results will be better the more times an area leader visits the

store or the longer the visits are. I can recall examples of times when area

56

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 6 Strategy  Prioritise and manage your time

leaders I was leading took a few weeks of annual leave and, during the time

they were on leave, their stores exceeded budget expectations. I believe

this was due to those area leaders concentrating, in the time before they

were away, on setting expectations for when they would be absent and

it was also due to their store managers working together, relying on and

supporting each other more during the time their area leader was away.

Actually, visiting a store more than is necessary can be detrimental to the

long-term development of a store manager, reducing the need for her

or him to develop the ability to problem solve, to make decisions and to

improve leadership skills.

Constant visits by area leaders can also cause store managers to lose their

belief in themselves and in the fact that they are able to do their jobs

effectively.

No planning, preparation or establishment of

key outcomes for store visits

If you have not put adequate preparation into planning each of your store

visits and are unclear about the outcomes you need to achieve, then you

are most likely to be just ticking boxes to appear to have achieved and not

actually achieving. If you are going to stores without a plan, or an outcome

to be achieved, you are likely to have no impact on the store’s ability to

achieve the desired outcomes. This will mean that your precious time is

being wasted, along with the valuable time of your store managers, and

will make following up on any actions and strategies much more difficult.

57

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Failure to prioritise activities

It is important to examine the areas in which you are currently spending

your time so you can start to separate and prioritise what is worth doing

from what you could be doing less.

Following is an activity that will produce results you might find useful and,

possibly, surprising.

I have done this activity with many area leaders, especially those feeling

overwhelmed and overworked. When ‘keeping too many plates spinning’,

you might not be conscious of where you are spending your time and,

even more importantly, be unable to decide which activities you should

make your priority to achieve positive differences in your results. Making

an effort to understand where you are spending time can be the catalyst

for improving what you focus on and adjusting your priorities.

On the next page is a table entitled ‘Listing activities for one week’, listing

some key activities that an area leader is most likely to do in a typical week

(but feel free to add or delete activities to adapt the table so it relates

specifically to the way you work).

At the end of each day, for the period of one week, allocate the hours/

minutes you spent on each function listed and record the results in the table.

This will give you a clear idea of how you are spending your time every day.

At the end of the week, use the ‘Prioritising activities’ table on the page

following the ‘Listing activities for one week’ table to allocate a number to

each activity, from 1 through to 10 (or to 12 if you have added activities

of your own in the spaces provided), based on how much time you spent

on each activity for the week. The activity to which you allocate number 1

will be the activity on which you spent the most time. Continue to allocate

numbers to the activities in the list, 2–10 (or 2–12), in order from greatest

to least amount of time spent.

Suppose it is possible to design a plan for exactly how you should spend

your time, based on what you believe will have the biggest impact on

results. Which activities from the list in the first table do you believe have

the greatest impact on sales, and which do not? In the second column of

the ‘Prioritising activities’ table, allocate numbers from 1 through to 10 (or

1 to 12, if you have added activities of your own in the spaces provided),

indicating highest priority (aimed at impacting results most) to lowest, with

1 being the highest priority.

58

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 6 Strategy  Prioritise and manage your time