SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Leadership
SUMMARY: The text discusses the differences in leadership styles and store management approaches between the Western Australian and South Australian stores, highlighting the importance of empowering store managers.
KEYWORDS: store management, leadership styles, retail operations, store autonomy, team building
---

stores on most days. Her greatest frustration was feeling that she was

constantly running from store to store, ‘putting out fires’ and spending a

great deal of time dealing with people problems.

It was a struggle to keep staff for long, so Helen was also spending a great

deal of time recruiting new team members.

67

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

The Western Australian store managers didn’t meet as a group because

Helen believed this would mean they were spending valuable time out

of stores. She felt such meetings were unnecessary, as well as costly. She

tended to work with each store manager individually and made sure she

was always close by, in case they needed her. Store managers seemed to be

reliant on Helen to make decisions.

South Australia

Helen could only visit her South Australian stores every eight weeks, so she

had to lead these stores a little differently from her Western Australian stores.

When she was in South Australia it could only be for a few days at a time.

When Helen arrived in South Australia, she would gather all of the store

managers together for a team meeting, because this seemed an efficient

way of making the most of her time while she was there. She would give

the managers a business update and confirm sales targets for the next two

months. They would then discuss results and share ideas and strategies.

The South Australian store managers were a cohesive group of leaders. They

worked together and contacted each other regularly to solve problems.

They would only contact Helen when they were in need of her expertise and

advice. The South Australian store managers seemed to have taken more

ownership of their stores than their Western Australian counterparts. They

were a tightknit connected leadership group who nearly always achieved

their budget goals and had very high retention of team members.

‘Light bulbs’ appeared, for me and for Helen, as she recounted the

differences between the ways in which she led the two states. She began

to see that what she had unintentionally created for herself in Western

Australia was a leadership style that made her store managers reliant

on her. She didn’t value the time she spent in Western Australia as

much, because she knew she would be back again the following week

or could pop into a store at a moment’s notice. The Western Australian

store managers didn’t need to think for themselves and solve their own

challenges, and Helen hadn’t built the same tightknit community of leaders

that she had in South Australia.

Visiting stores as often as Helen did in Western Australia doesn’t teach

store managers to step up, take responsibility, solve their own problems

and deliver results. It doesn’t allow them to be true business leaders.

68

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 7 Strategy 2 Maximise your store visits

To improve results, it is imperative that everyone in a leadership role needs

to step up and this starts with area leaders. Area leaders need to provide

appropriate levels of support, set clear expectations, manage those

expectations and create the space in which store managers can step up

and do their jobs.

It creates a lose/lose situation if area leaders try to be the pseudo store

managers of multiple stores, leaving store managers to be nothing more

than store caretakers. It results in a lack of ownership of stores and of results

by store managers and staff, which leads to frustration. It just doesn’t work!

The best results occur when store managers are allowed to develop into

true business leaders, taking spiritual and psychological ownership of their

stores, caring about their staff, caring about their customers and caring

about their results.

To assist you in improving the outcomes of your store visits and the

results they achieve, complete the ‘Store visit maintenance checklist’ on

the following pages. It is a kind of ‘health check’ aimed at helping you

to evaluate what you are doing well and the changes you may need to

consider making to improve your results.

After completing the checklist, you will easily see which strategies you

marked ‘Yes’ and which you marked ‘No’.

Some of the strategies that you are not implementing, and you marked

‘No’, may not be important to you right now but, as you continue to read

through this book, I hope you will see that you may want to consider also

implementing some of those strategies in your region.

Store visit maintenance checklist

Read through the behaviours listed in the checklist on the following pages.

• If you always behave in the manner described, circle ‘Y’ for ‘Yes’.

• If you behave in the manner described only some of the time, circle

‘S’ for ‘Sometimes’.

• If you never behave in the manner described, circle ‘N’ for ‘No’.

69

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Try to avoid circling ‘S’ for ‘Sometimes’ unless it proves really difficult to

decide between ‘Y’ for ‘Yes’ and ‘N’ for ‘No’ because this response, while

indicating room for improvement, does make it difficult to determine the

behaviours on which you need to focus most to improve what is achieved

by your store visits.

STORE VISIT MAINTENANCE CHECKLIST

I look at the results and key performance indicators (KPIs) Y S N

of each of my stores, so that I know exactly how each store

is performing and can note opportunities for improvement.

My shop visits are always well prepared. I know the areas Y S N

on which I need to focus with each store manager to make

the most out of each visit.

I have a monthly meeting with all my store managers Y S N

together and use this for communication, focus and

development.

I follow up on strategies from the store manager meetings Y S N

with each store manager during store visits.