SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Area Leadership in Retail
SUMMARY: The author shares her experience as an area leader in retail, highlighting the challenges and lessons learned in this role.
KEYWORDS: area leadership, retail management, professional growth, operational responsibilities, leadership challenges
---

greatest area leaders I had the pleasure to lead, who read these pages

before they went to print. His constructive feedback was invaluable.

Some of the greatest times in my life have been spent with the area leaders

I have worked alongside and who I have led over the years. I thank them

for giving me the opportunities to learn the lessons of leadership that have

made these pages possible.

I am also grateful to the readers who take the time to read this book and to

be open to new ways of leading. My wish for them is that this book opens

a world of opportunities for taking control of the ways they lead and the

differences they want to make in their businesses and their lives.

Alison Crabb

xi

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Introduction

In 1995, after three years as a store manager for travel retailer Flight

Centre, I was fortunate enough to be appointed as the first Flight Centre

‘area leader’ in Victoria. I was beyond excited to have been offered the new

role and even more excited to accept it.

The region for which I was appointed area leader consisted of thirteen

stores in Melbourne. Being a newly created role, there were no pre-existing

job descriptions or systems manuals to guide me on the way to doing

the job effectively. It was a case of trial and error; working it out as I went

along. I relied on simply sharing with my team of store managers my own

knowledge and experience.

Back then, there wasn’t the benefit of professional backing from a big

support team so, being full of enthusiasm for my new role, I took on a lot of

the operational responsibilities myself. It was a huge growth phase for the

company, so a lot of my time was taken up finding new sites, negotiating

leases and appointing suitable store managers and consultants. To find

suitable candidates to take on travel consultant roles, I recall bringing

home bags of resumes that had arrived with me through the post (it was

1995 after all)!

As my workload and responsibilities increased, I could see that I wasn’t

achieving the results I wanted and that I had achieved as a successful

store manager. I was frustrated, stressed and working long hours, feeling

completely overwhelmed.

I just couldn’t see where I could be going wrong. It was as if I was on

a treadmill, constantly on the move but not getting anywhere, working

harder and harder to try and get on top of everything but making no

inroads. Desperately wanting to provide as much support as I could to my

store managers, I found myself taking on even more, and more.

I knew this could not continue and that I needed to make some changes,

but I just couldn’t see where I was going wrong. I had been a very

successful store manager, so why couldn’t I achieve the same results on a

bigger scale?

I was three years into the role, when I became pregnant with my first son,

Aaron. I was thrilled to be a first-time mum and excited to start a new

xii

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Introduction

chapter, leaving my area leader role behind. I took maternity leave and,

soon after, I had my second son, Matthew.

After a two-year break from my role at Flight Centre, I started to get itchy

feet and felt ready to go back to work. I returned to Flight Centre and,

making use of my teaching degree, took on a part-time role training all of

the new store managers upon their appointment. It was this time that was

to shape the next phase of my career.

Spending time with small groups of new store managers, allowed me the

opportunity to really understand the role of an area leader from a store

manager’s perspective. I listened to what the store managers felt to be

the most challenging elements of their roles, and what they felt they most

needed to be successful in those roles.

What I found to be consistent about all the new store managers with whom

I dealt was their desire to do well and their reliance on a significant amount

of support from their area leaders to achieve their goals. As I listened, I

identified with them and could really relate to what they were saying. I

could hear my own thoughts and words in theirs. I understood for the first

time why I had loved the role of store manager so much when it had been

my role and what it was that had driven me to attain the results I had.

New store managers consistently shared with me how much their own

individual success relied on the relationship they each had with their

respective area leaders. They needed to know that their area leader

believed in them, was there to support them and was committed to

their success.

I loved this time in my career and this training role provided me with the

knowledge I needed to step back into an area leader role myself and to

do it with an entirely different approach and perspective.

After twelve months of delivering store manager training, I was to become

the area leader of Flight Centre’s most underperforming Victorian region

(which also happened to be the most underperforming region in Australia).

The region consisted of eighteen stores, of which only one was profitable.

The other seventeen stores were all losing money. Some of the stores

didn’t have a store manager and, of those that did, there were a number

of store managers who were not performing in their roles.

xiii

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Introduction

With a young family to consider, I had returned to the area leader role

knowing that, if I was to successfully juggle a career and a family, I needed

to find a better way of managing it all and to focus on the things that would