SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Leadership and Strategy
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of creating a great work environment and developing effective business strategies to drive results in retail organizations.
KEYWORDS: work environment, business strategy, organizational performance, leadership, retail
---

environment of the business will determine how engaged they are when

working in it and whether they will choose to stay or to leave your business.

Concentrating on sales and KPIs will never attract the best people or help

you retain them. It is the way people feel about the organisation and about

their leaders that will have enormous impact on the morale of the team –

and it is the morale of the team that impacts on how well your team looks

after its customers.

The role of every business leader should be to create a great environment

of which everyone wants to be a part.

The strategy

As well as a great environment, a successful

Results

organisation needs a great strategy – a simple,

Strategy

easy to implement plan of action designed

Environment

to assist with achieving the goals of that

organisation.

A business strategy is like a road map. We need to know where we are

and where we are aiming at going. The strategy is the road map outlining

the way to get there. Having a clear, workable strategy creates focus and

direction, as well as bestowing ownership and accountability on everyone

tasked with implementing it.

Retailers invest heavily in their marketing, their product, their technology

and their strategy for dealing with customers. All of these are vital for the

sustainability and growth of the business.

Although the business will have an overarching strategy, each leader within

the business should be able to take the organisation’s business strategy

and apply it to their own business plans. They can operationalise the

organisation’s strategy in their own approaches to the business and have

some level of accountability for the strategy’s implementation.

28

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 3 The performance pyramid

Results

Every organisation is focused on achieving

Results

results. Whether it is a sales target, a profit

Strategy

target or a growth target, there is always an

Environment

outcome that everyone in an organisation is

aiming to achieve.

Having observed many organisations in many different industries, I have

noticed that there seems to be a huge emphasis and focus on discussing

results. Most executive meetings and store staff meetings are consumed

with focusing on KPIs and this takes up the majority of the discussion time.

Hours of store visits and one-on-one discussions (commonly referred to as

just ‘one-on-ones’) are spent trawling through KPI reports.

Results are an outcome and, if you think about it, you can’t actually control

your results with certainty. What you can control is where you choose to

focus. My experience has shown me that the most impactful areas on

which to focus are working on improving your environment or working

on improving your key business strategies. The diagram below is a simple

representation of the idea that focusing on the environment and strategies

indirectly focuses on results.

Environment

Results

Strategies

Favourable results are what we are all in business to achieve. However,

as much as we want to achieve those results, they are really the outcome

of how well we manage to provide a happy and productive workplace

environment and how well we can implement the strategies that we have

agreed with our staff will further the business.

29

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

I often say that you can’t actually directly control your results, but what you

can control are the things that impact on your workplace environment and

strategies. Recognising that results are dependent on the environment you

create and the strategies you implement will make you realise that more

discussion time during in-store visits and one-on-ones should be focused

on these areas.

Environment, strategy and results all

working together

The ability to achieve results through implementing your strategy will rely

heavily on the health of your environment. You could have the best strategy

in the world but, if there isn’t alignment and a common focus across the

members of your leadership team, who feel collectively responsible for

achieving common goals, you will spend a lot of your time trying to get

everyone on board and working for the same ends. I doubt that dealing

with these kinds of issues was part of your business strategy!

Your results are an outcome of how well you have managed to provide

an environment of which everyone in your organisation wants to be a

part. When your staff are working in a positive, cohesive environment,

their engagement will be increased and your strategies will be easier to

implement.

The region health checklist

To help you determine how well your region is performing in the areas

of ‘environment’, ‘strategy’ and ‘results’, a checklist is provided on the

following pages for you to complete.

When you think about your role as an area leader, what do you believe

your purpose to be?

The descriptions in the checklist are designed to help you identify what

you might need to focus on to improve your leadership and to achieve

better results. Be as honest as you can be when completing it – this is not

about being right or wrong! As well as a column for placing a tick beside

the descriptions you think apply to you, there is also a column provided

for you to make notes.

30

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 3 The performance pyramid

Sometimes in business, we know there are opportunities for improvement

and to achieve better results. It is just a matter of knowing where to focus

to make the most of the opportunities and achieve those results. There

are plenty of strategies in this book to help you improve in all of the areas

listed in the checklist.

Region health checklist

Put a tick in the column provided beside each of the descriptions you think

applies to you. Add notes if needed.

ENVIRONMENT ü NOTES

I have a clear understanding of the type

of environment that maximises my team’s

performance.

I feel a strong sense of connection to my