SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Management
SUMMARY: This text examines the leadership behaviors and strategies that maximize team performance and drive results in a retail environment.
KEYWORDS: team performance, store management, leadership behaviors, retail environment, key performance indicators
---

Put a tick in the column provided beside each of the descriptions you think

applies to you. Add notes if needed.

ENVIRONMENT ü NOTES

I have a clear understanding of the type

of environment that maximises my team’s

performance.

I feel a strong sense of connection to my

region and treat the business like my

own.

I ensure my store managers feel valued

and appreciated for the work they do.

I know about my store managers’ lives

away from their work.

I know my store managers’ hopes and

dreams.

I find ways to show my commitment

to helping each of my store managers

succeed in their role.

A high level of mutual trust exists

between me and each of my store

managers.

I ensure the part-time and casual staff in

my region feel valued and appreciated for

the work they do.

(Continued on next page)

31

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

I spend time getting to know my part-

time and casual staff and their hopes and

dreams.

I create opportunities for my store

managers to work together to develop

and benefit from connection and a sense

of belonging.

Regardless of their roles, I create

opportunities for staff across the region to

spend time together to create a sense of

community.

I create opportunities for my team to

provide feedback and share ideas.

STRATEGIES ü NOTES

Everyone in our team shares and owns the

same clear vision for the business.

A set of core values is used to help guide

the making of decisions in the business.

Our business has clear strategies in place

to achieve goals that are known and

owned by everyone in the team.

All of my team members know exactly

what is expected of them in their roles

and they meet those expectations.

A measure of our success are the KPIs that

are in place, aligned to the organisation’s

goals and owned by the team.

There are reliable communication systems

in place to ensure everyone is informed

about what is happening in the business.

(Continued on next page)

32

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 3 The performance pyramid

There is a workable plan in place to

continue to develop the leadership

attributes of members of my team.

I have a workable plan in place to identify

and develop future leaders in the business.

I spend time planning and preparing for

my store visits so that they are purposeful.

I have a plan in place that helps prioritise

the way I schedule my store visits.

I spend time working on my part in the

business and on a plan to help keep me

focused on my goals.

There is reward and recognition to

acknowledge great performance across

my region.

RESULTS ü NOTES

I know which KPIs are the key drivers of

results in my region.

I spend time at the end of each month to

assess my results.

I create a 90-day and 30-day plan that

help me stay focused on my goals.

Results of my region are communicated

across my teams.

The store managers in my region know

their budgets and take ownership of their

results.

This ‘Region health checklist’ is available for you to copy from my website: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

33

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Once you have completed the checklist, ask yourself whether completing

it has changed the way you perceive your role and its purpose? You might

find that you already have more clarity regarding what might be missing

from the way you are fulfilling your role and where you could focus to

achieve improvement.

From what you have read so far and from competing the checklist, you

might already have some ‘light bulbs’ and ‘actions’ to note on the pages

following.

When your environment and strategies are working together, results will

take care of themselves.

In the following chapters, we will start to work through some of the key

areas that will help you improve your business environment, implement

some key strategies and improve your results.

34

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The performance pyramid:

Light bulbs

Type here

35

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The performance pyramid:

Actions

Type here

36

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 4

Building the environment

Results

Strategy

relationships value appreciation community

ownership connection Environment cohesion

create connection

sense of belonging

In my second stint as an area leader with Flight Centre, I took over the most

underperforming area in Australia. It was made up of eighteen stores of

which only one was profitable. Seventeen stores were losing money – some

a significant amount of money!

Before I visited any of the stores, I spent time looking at their KPIs in

an attempt to understand what could be causing the results and, more

importantly, what needed to be fixed to turn things around. What I saw

was alarming!

Of Flight Centre’s five Victorian regions, the region to which I had been

appointed had the lowest sales per consultant. It also had the highest staff

turnover of all Flight Centre’s regions throughout Australia, which resulted

in a lack of experience among the consultants, contributing to a high level

of customer complaints and high costs.

I went from store to store to meet each of the store managers and

consultants and had one-on-one conversations with everyone in the region.

37

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

The feedback from every individual was consistently the same. There was

no shared vision and no goals for each team to work towards. There was

a lack of teamwork and cohesion in the teams. I found the best way to

describe it as, ‘Everyone came to work, sold some travel and went home.’

The stores were messy and appeared disorganised, with not even the

most basic systems in place. It became very clear that there were a lack of