SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Retention
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of engaging and retaining part-time and casual retail employees, who often feel undervalued.
KEYWORDS: part-time employees, casual employees, employee engagement, employee retention, retail workforce
---

business sense for retail employers to take good care of them, especially if

their products require confident sales staff with good product knowledge.

Training new staff can be time-consuming and costly.

I believe retailers could focus and do better in their dealings with part-

time and casual employees. I have interviewed many casual workers, be

they working parents, students working while studying, or people working

casually in a second job. Consistently, I hear that their experience is one

of not feeling valued or of feeling like a number or a ‘dollar per hour’

commodity. Many of them have experienced having shifts cut at the last

minute, being asked to come in and cover a shift’s staff shortage with little

or no notice, being rostered for a four-hour shift only to be sent home

early, or being given only a couple of shifts a week which doesn’t provide

them with an adequate income.

97

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Casual members of staff do not receive the same benefits as full-time

employees. They are often excluded from the benefits of store discounts

and from opportunities for personal and professional development. What

casual staff and part-time staff members really want is to feel valued,

appreciated and cared about.

Understanding the make-up of your

workforce

This activity is aimed at helping you to determine the type of staff working

for you (full-time, part-time or casual) and the percentage of each that make

up your total workforce. Fill in the table and perform the calculations to

assist you to understand what kinds of workers constitute your workforce.

BREAKDOWN OF TYPES OF STAFF

HEAD COUNT % OF TOTAL STAFF

(NOT FTE)*

TOTAL STAFF NUMBERS 100%

NUMBER OF FULL-TIME STAFF

NUMBER OF PART-TIME STAFF

NUMBER OF CASUAL STAFF

* FTE = Full time equivalent

This table is available for you to copy from my website: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

If casual and part-time staff make up a large percentage of your workforce,

the longer they continue working for you the more beneficial it can be

for you. The longer these people are employed in your organisation, the

better their product knowledge and systems knowledge will be, they will

form deeper relationships with staff and customers, and will develop more

brand loyalty.

There is a danger for retailers if their part-time and casual staff members

do not feel valued, appreciated or cared about because this impacts their

desire to go above and beyond for the customer and the brand, or to

volunteer more of their effort willingly.

98

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 9 Strategy 4 Engage your part-time workforce

Engaging your casual and part-time

workforce

Below are some questions that you might find useful for deciding ways in

which you can retain and engage your casual and part-time workers – who

probably represent the largest category of workers in your stores!

1 How can you ensure these workers are part of the community within

your region?

2 How can you ensure you have very good communication channels

with them?

3 How can you gather valuable feedback from these workers?

4 How can you ensure you know their career aspirations?

5 How can you find ways for them to transition from part-time to full-

time, and back to part-time, if necessary?

The more you can show genuine appreciation, support and care,

understanding their goals and displaying a truly collaborative approach,

your casual and part-time workforce will become more committed and

will care more about your customers and your results. They will embrace

striving for sales targets together with you.

I cannot stress enough that this relationship needs to be built on mutual

respect, care and trust. British business magnate, investor and author

Richard Branson has been widely quoted as saying the following, which I

believe sums it up perfectly:

I have always believed that the way you treat your employees is the

way they will treat your customers, and that people flourish when

they are praised.

99

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Strategy 4 Engage your part-time workforce:

Light bulbs

Type here

100

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Strategy 4 Engage your part-time workforce:

Actions

Type here

101

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 10

STR 5A TE

G

Y

• •

Have meetings that matter

Communication

If you have ever baked a cake, you will be familiar with most recipes

instructing you to sift all of the dry ingredients together through a sieve

to combine them thoroughly and get rid of the unpleasant lumpy bits.

Whether the recipe requires flour, castor sugar, salt, baking powder, baking

soda, cocoa or other dry powdered ingredients, all of those ingredients

are placed into the top of the sieve, are sifted together and combined to

fall lightly and effortlessly through the sieve.

When it comes to communication within an organisation, I see the role of

the area leader as equivalent to the part played by the sieve when baking.

Merchandising

Merchandising

Marketing Technology

Marketing Technology

Finance

Finance Product

Product

Area leader

Area leader

Store

managers

Store managers

103

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Sales staff

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Area leaders are responsible for ensuring all of the important information

from various parts of the business and support functions, such as

marketing, merchandising, product, technology and finance, are sifted

together and reach the store managers so that they are all informed.

Being the organisation’s sieves means area leaders need to understand

the responsibility they have to their store managers to ensure they pass

on to them all the information they need to know while filtering out the

‘lumpy bits’. The ‘lumpy bits’ that are left behind and not filtered through

to the store managers will be those pieces of information that may not be

necessary or appropriate for them to know (for example, highly sensitive

information).

The role of area leader requires you to lead with influence, so the way