SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Time Management and Prioritization
SUMMARY: This text discusses how area leaders in retail can prioritize and manage their time by identifying and ranking activities based on their impact on results.
KEYWORDS: time management, prioritization, activity planning, retail leadership, store visits
---

1 to 12, if you have added activities of your own in the spaces provided),

indicating highest priority (aimed at impacting results most) to lowest, with

1 being the highest priority.

58

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 6 Strategy  Prioritise and manage your time

This table is available for you to copy from my website: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

59

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

KEEW

ENO

ROF

SEITIVITCA

GNITSIL

LATOT

NUS/TAS

YADIRF

YADSRUHT

YADSENDEW

YADSEUT

YADNOM

YTIVITCA

)nim/h(

rof

gniraperp

dna

gninnalP stisiv

erots

serots

ot

gnillevarT

seno-no-eno

dna

stisiv

erotS

semuser

gnittev/tnemtiurceR

gniweivretni

dna

/gnitropeR

tnemeganam

IPK

dna

sredael

htiw

sgniteeM

rehto

gnimrofrep

snoitcnuf

eciffo

daeh/troppus

sliame/noitartsinimdA

dna

gninnalp/gnitekraM

seitivitca

erots

lacol

gnitucexe

sredael

gnipoleved/gniniarT

/sreganam

erots

htiw

sgniteeM

sreganam

erots

tnatsissa

:rehtO :rehtO

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

PRIORITISING ACTIVITIES

AREA LEADER ACTIVITIES NUMBERS NUMBERS

ALLOCATED (FROM ALLOCATED

1 to 10 [OR 12]) TO TO PRIORITISE

RANK EACH ACTIVITY ACTIVITIES

(1 = most time (1 = greatest impact

spent) on results)

Planning and preparing for store visits

Travelling to stores

Store visits and one-on-ones

Recruitment/vetting resumes and

interviewing

Reporting/KPI management

Meetings with leaders and performing

other support/head office functions

Administration/emails

Marketing/planning and executing

local store activities

Training/developing leaders

Meetings with store managers/assistant

store managers

Other:

Other:

This table is available for you to copy from my website: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

From the list in the tables, there are probably not going to be any activities

that you can eliminate altogether. However, focusing on quality not quantity

and putting more focus and effort into the activities that will help improve

your results will ensure better use of your time.

60

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 6 Strategy  Prioritise and manage your time

After completing the tables, you will have a full week of data showing you

how you actually spend your time and you will be able to reflect on which

of your activities will make the biggest difference to your results.

Are you spending too much time on activities that have little or no impact

on results?

For example, you might find that you are spending the majority of your

time in stores. If so, are your store visits carried out in a way that delivers

key outcomes for the business? Are store visits an activity for which you

need to spend more time planning and preparing, so you can improve the

way in which you conduct your visits to make them more effective?

When you calculate the total time you spend on the road, are you spending

a day a week in your car driving from store to store? Sometimes this is

unavoidable – but ask yourself if there is a better way to do it.

If you are working long hours, and fear this will become unsustainable,

completing the tables and prioritising your activities will help to shed

light on the areas in which you are spending most of your time. Your goal

should be to use the time more productively to deliver better results.

Based on what you believe to be activities that represent time well spent,

what changes do you need to make to how you are spending time so that

you are using your time in ways that will best impact your results.

Scheduling your activities

Area leaders all need to be mindful of how they spend their time and

prioritise their activities. So let’s look at how you schedule your time and

see if there is a way to ensure you feel in control and you are investing the

right amount of time in the right activities.

Starting with your month, your week and your day, the following are some

strategies that might help you.

Your month

It is important to think about your time in whole months, rather than week-

to-week, or day-to-day. The following suggestions will help you to schedule

your time based around your month.

61

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Whether you have an online diary or a paper diary, I suggest you always

start with a monthly planner. I also recommend always having your next

month’s calendar handy.

There will be key activities that you will have every month and these should

be listed ahead of time.

I offer the following suggestions as a guide. The way you adapt them

will vary depending on how many stores you oversee, but you can make

adjustments according to your specific requirements.

MONTHLY COMMITMENTS

Put into your diary all of the commitments you have for the month, such

as store manager meetings, assistant store manager meetings, training or

planning sessions that you are either attending or facilitating, area leader

meetings, product updates, local store marketing activities, recruitment

days, etc. Once you have done this, you will be able to see the number of

days you have left for other activities.

The following are some recommendations for prioritising and allocating

time in your monthly plan:

• Mondays: administration, leadership calls, planning for the week’s

store visits

• Tuesdays: store visits

• Wednesdays: store visits

• Thursdays: store visits

• Fridays: keep free for anything that might arise – urgent store visits,

meetings, interviews, etc.

Mondays are generally not a good day to visit stores because this is the day

when store managers are often out of the stores and Mondays can often

be a quieter trading day. For this reason, Monday each week is the best

day for you to plan your store visits for the week. Tuesdays, Wednesdays

and Thursdays are the best days to make the visits.

Area leaders can fall into the trap of overscheduling themselves and

filling their diaries, so I always encourage them to keep Fridays free for

the unexpected. This might include important recruitment interviews,

62

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 6 Strategy  Prioritise and manage your time

dealing with a challenge or issue at a store, or an unexpected unscheduled

meeting. If you are lucky enough to avoid any unexpected demands