SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The author shares her experience in building a leadership company and offers a practical guide to help area leaders in retail improve their results and make a positive impact on their organizations.
KEYWORDS: retail leadership, area leadership, professional development, retail management, leadership strategies
---

huge life decision to start my own leadership company.

Since 2016, I have been combining and refining all of my knowledge, first-

hand experience and philosophies, to create a range of workshops and

programs to teach and support other business leaders to improve their

results. I have also had the pleasure of working with many area leaders

from retail businesses. All of the challenges faced by them are similar to

those that I once faced and was able to overcome.

This book is designed to be a practical ‘How to’ guide, aimed at assisting

area leaders to have more impact, achieve better results and make a

difference to the organisations employing them. It also provides an

opportunity for retail business leaders to reflect on how they are developing

the skills of their area leaders and maximising the opportunities to lead

them in a different more productive way.

It is intended that anyone working in retail will gain valuable insights from

the pages of this book.

I am passionate about the important role area leaders play in retail and

truly believe that the key to success and improved results lies with retailers

starting to value and invest in the role and in the employees who fill it.

Retail leaders and managers need to understand the enormous influence

an area leader has. There is no better time for those business leaders and

managers to rethink how they value, invest in and empower those in area

leadership roles to ensure maximum return for their own investment in

their businesses. For this to happen, there needs to be a shift in thinking

and a genuine understanding of the unique nature of the area leader role,

as well as an appreciation of the specific skills required and the importance

of investing in the professional development of area leaders to help them

navigate their role more effectively.

xvi

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Introduction

How to use this book

This book is intended to support area leaders in fulfilling their roles. As I

mentioned earlier, It has been conceived as a ‘how to’ guide containing

strategies that will help you to find better ways to work.

All of the strategies in this book have been proven to work for me and for

the area leaders I led during my eight years as a state manager. They have

also helped many other retailers with whom I have worked in a training and

coaching capacity since 2016.

Each chapter of this book focuses on a key aspect of the area leader role

and you are encouraged to make your own notes throughout the book.

Each chapter has a page on which you can write your ‘Light bulbs’; by

this I mean any points that suddenly made something clear to you and to

which you can particularly relate, or that you would like to discuss or reflect

upon further.

Each chapter also has a page on which you can note ‘Actions’, meaning

points I have made to which you not only can relate but that also suggest

strategies you would like to enact and implement in your region and in the

way you work.

I encourage you to make use of those two pages in each chapter, so that

you can start to create your own toolkit of ideas and actions.

xvii

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 1

The role of the area leader

For the purpose of this book, I will use the term ‘area leader’ to refer to

an employee whose role it is to oversee several retail outlets within an

organisation. Different retailers may use different names to refer to the

same role: ‘multi-site manager’; ‘regional leader’; or ‘cluster manager’, to

name a few.

The number of stores a person who is employed in this role will oversee

varies from retailer to retailer, as does the level of responsibility expected

of the role within the organisation. Regardless of their title and level of

responsibility, the fundamental role of people in this position will be

similar, no matter the type of retail or the organisation, and the strategies

in this book will apply to anyone performing that role.

Case Study: Mary

I would like to introduce you to Mary.

Mary is an area leader at a large retail chain. She oversees twelve stores, is

very passionate about her brand and wants her region to do well.

Mary often feels stretched as a result of dealing with so many stores and she

wishes that her teams would just do what needs to be done to deliver their

daily and weekly budget projections.

She spends a great amount of her time dealing with people issues, often

spending time recruiting staff and looking for suitable people to fill store

manager roles.

Mary also spends a lot of time working to motivate staff to achieve

budgets, answering store managers’ questions and dealing with day-to-day

challenges. She feels constantly stressed.

Due to her responsibility for a large casual workforce, Mary spends many

hours managing rosters and making sure stores have just enough staff, but

1

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

not too many, so staffing doesn’t become an unnecessary expense for the

business. This can be challenging and time-consuming when managing a

seven-day roster every week.

Some of Mary’s stores do not have store managers. She constantly feels like

she is pulling people from one store to another to cover shifts.

In stores that don’t have store managers, Mary struggles to hold staff

accountable for results because she feels they are doing the best they can

without a manager. She feels compelled to spend more time in those stores

to provide additional support and this takes her away from her other stores.

As a result Mary spends a great deal of her time driving between stores

every day.

Mary doesn’t have a pool of potential leaders ready to take on leadership

roles because her staff members do not see leadership roles as attractive,