SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges faced by an area leader in retail, including juggling multiple responsibilities, motivating a casual workforce, and achieving budget goals.
KEYWORDS: store management, leadership challenges, retail operations, employee motivation, budget management
---

As a result Mary spends a great deal of her time driving between stores

every day.

Mary doesn’t have a pool of potential leaders ready to take on leadership

roles because her staff members do not see leadership roles as attractive,

with very little perceived reward for effort.

Motivating staff is sometimes difficult, because the staff is largely a casual

workforce and members of staff do not see their work as a priority in their

lives. This is frustrating for Mary because she feels under pressure from head

office to achieve her budget goals.

After spending all day in stores, Mary’s job continues when she gets home,

where she responds to emails, reviews individual store results and sets up

interviews aimed at filling vacancies.

Mary often questions why she is doing what she is doing and why people

need her to motivate them to do the jobs for which they are paid. She was a

very good store manager herself and can’t understand why others can’t do

the job as well as she did.

You may have been to the circus and watched clowns who have mastered

the art of keeping plates spinning in the air on sticks, concentrating

intensely and focusing on each of the plates, careful not to let one of them

fall and break. This could describe what Mary is attempting to do!

For the first three years of my own time as an area leader, I was like Mary.

I experienced all of the highs and lows of leading in retail and I was that

clown, trying to keep all the plates spinning.

I am sure, if you are an area leader, you too can relate to the difficulties

faced by the clown. Do you have days where you feel as though you are

2

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 1 The role of the area leader

working very hard to keep all of those ‘plates’ spinning? Are you rushing

from store to store, juggling competing priorities, trying to meet the needs

of all of your stores, managing your costs, and all while working hard to

achieve sales targets? You can probably even see the funny side of the

way you are overstretching yourself if you are able to visualise an image

of yourself spinning plates.

meetings

training

merchandising

one-on-one discussions marketing

rosters sales

store visits

stock control

cost control

recruitment

The truth is you are probably working longer hours than you should to

get everything done and keep everything on track. Just as it would be

impossible for the clown to keep the plates spinning for days and days, it

is impossible for an area leader to keep on top of everything, unless she

or he finds a better way to do the job and deliver results.

As support staff are reduced and training budgets squeezed, area leaders

are required to shoulder more responsibility than ever before. They are

being given more tasks and responsibilities to perform while still under

pressure to achieve their expected budgets.

The most successful store managers are often promoted to area leader

roles, yet the leadership style and skillset required for a successful area

leader are different from those of a successful store manager.

3

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

A store manager works in the same location every day, managing a frontline

team made up of people who also work in the same environment every

day. A store manager is able to build relationships with staff quickly and,

being very familiar with the circumstances and work environment, is able

to make decisions on the spot and in the moment, to assert immediate

control over the situations arising within the store.

By contrast, an area leader works across multiple locations, each

representing a different environment. An area leader needs to lead from

a position of influence, by motivating and coaching the next tier down in

the hierarchy of leaders at each of the stores which she or he visits. This

requires a stronger leadership style than is required by a store manager.

One area leader described the change from store manager to area leader

as being like stepping up from primary school to secondary school

where you have to think more independently and make more decisions

of your own.

Once we acknowledge the difference between the roles of store manager

and area leader, we can appreciate the need for a shift in mindset when

taking on the role of area leader, to broader thinking and a focus on

developing new skills and new ways of working. Even the most successful

store managers need to appreciate the need for a change, to leading

through influence rather than through control, which will be the key to

success if they are offered and accept area leader roles.

If you have been a successful store manager and were able to build a great

team, lead a good business and deliver great sales results, you should have

developed the confidence and credibility to be a successful area leader.

But you do need to recognise that the role of an area leader requires a

unique set of skills – skills that are not learnt from being a store manager

and that need to be taught and developed.

When you come to appreciate the differences between the store manager

and area leader roles and become open and adaptable to learning the

necessary new skills, you will quickly build confidence in your new role and

in your ability to achieve the results to which you aspire.

If you read the respective job descriptions of a store manager and an

area leader, you will realise that both roles work towards achieving the

same outcomes. Typically, both job descriptions will include the following

requirements.

4

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 1 The role of the area leader

• Lead, motivate and coach a group of people.

• Maximise financial performance and deliver budgeted results.

• Ensure an outstanding customer experience.