SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of creating a welcoming and customer-focused retail environment, and the need to empower store managers to make autonomous decisions.
KEYWORDS: retail management, customer experience, store manager autonomy, sales strategy, business acumen
---

It is important to use your shopfront to attract customers, by advertising what

they want to buy rather than what you want to sell.

It is also important to have a welcoming shopfront. The aim is to attract

customers into the store. Stores in shopping strip locations should ALWAYS

have their doors open – even in winter! This advice may not be popular,

but research has shown that a customer is more likely to walk into a store

if the door is open.

Experiment for yourself. Walk along your own local shopping strip and,

when you notice something in a shopfront that catches your eye, pay

attention to whether you are more likely to walk into that store if the door

is open or shut.

A closed door is a barrier to your business!

116

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 11 Strategy 6 Develop your business acumen

Allow your store managers autonomy to

make customer-focused decisions

Case Study: Autonomous decisions

It was the start of a new season and I was in desperate need of new shoes.

I went to my favourite shoe store at my local shopping centre. It’s not the

cheapest shoe store but always has a fabulous range of shoes, regardless of

the season. The store manager was very enthusiastic to help me and showed

me a range of shoes that suited my needs.

I tried on four pairs and loved them all. My budget really only stretched as far

as two pairs. I cheekily suggested that, if she could give me a small discount,

I might try and stretch the budget to three pairs, or even all four. She very

politely said that she couldn’t because she would ‘Get into trouble’. Wow,

get into trouble for selling more shoes!

It was 10:00am on a Tuesday morning. I would have thought that a big sale

would have been a nice way to start the day.

I said to the shoe store manager ‘Can I ask, if this was your business, would

you give me a discount?’ She immediately replied ‘Absolutely!’

I didn’t hold this against her. Clearly, she had not been given the autonomy

to make a decision that would not only have benefitted me (the customer)

but would have contributed a healthy amount towards her sales target for

the day. There would also have been the added benefit of increasing her

sense of achievement and ownership over the business she was leading as

store manager.

As I wandered past a competing shoe store only a few doors down, I noticed

that shopfront was advertising: ‘Buy one pair and get the second pair

half price.’

Aside from me genuinely wanting the shoes, my actions and questions

were also a result of the fact that I like to push the sales and service

boundaries whenever I can because it often provides me with some further

insights into the retail industry as well as a great story to share with my

retail clients.

117

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

We need to trust our salespeople and allow them to make their own good

business decisions. Occasionally they might make a mistake, but the

benefit of allowing them to have control of their results will make a great

difference to how they feel about the business and how they want to be

seen to be performing in their roles.

Understaffing is more costly than

overstaffing

Retailers have many systems in place for managing staff costs. From my

own work with area leaders, I have found that it is on this that they spend

a lot of their time and it is from this that most of their frustration arises. The

old saying is true: ‘You need to spend money to make money.’

Like many retail customers, I do most of my shopping on a Saturday or

Sunday, hoping to get in and out of stores as quickly as possible. I will

usually head to one of the major department stores.

I find what I am looking for, then wander around the floor looking for a

sales assistant to take my money. As I wander, I might finally find a checkout

that is open. I join the long queue and wait … and wait! If I really need what

I am buying, I deal with my frustration levels and continue to wait. But, on

occasions, I have left the item I wanted to purchase and have walked out.

I recently listened to an address by the chair of the board of a major

department store. He explained that the store’s results had been

disappointing for the first half of the year and, as a result, there would be

store closures, investment in online shopping and a focus on products that

drove a higher margin.

I couldn’t help but think, why not invest in your people and have more

staff working when your customers want to buy? Saturdays and Sundays

are when foot traffic is at its highest and when customers want to shop.

The formula that retailers work from to keep their staff costs down can be

flawed and doesn’t always make sense. Yes, it does cost more to have more

staff on a weekend, but that is when your customers want to buy and when

there is the greatest opportunity to increase your sales.

I often read about retailers wanting to improve the customer experience.

This staffing strategy alone could change the performance of a retailer.

118

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 11 Strategy 6 Develop your business acumen

Sales results, KPIs and budget achievements are less about the numbers

themselves and more about the choices we make. They are also about area

leaders being able to see the impact that the choices they make or don’t

make can have on results.

Different organisations allow different levels of autonomy to their area

leaders. Having worked with many area leaders from a variety of retailers