SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Leadership Roles
SUMMARY: This text compares the roles and responsibilities of store managers and area leaders in retail, highlighting their different leadership styles and expectations.
KEYWORDS: retail leadership, area leaders, store managers, leadership styles
---

same outcomes. Typically, both job descriptions will include the following

requirements.

4

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 1 The role of the area leader

• Lead, motivate and coach a group of people.

• Maximise financial performance and deliver budgeted results.

• Ensure an outstanding customer experience.

• Oversee day-to-day operations.

• Ensure that operational and brand standards are met.

However, the way store managers and area leaders go about the delivery

Types of Area Leaders

of these requirements is very different and, as I mentioned earlier, each

High expectations relies on a different set of skills and a different leadership style.

Leadership styles necessary for

store managers and area leaders

Controlling Empowering Low control

Low support High support

High control

High High

expectations expectations

High support

Low support

High influence

Stagnating Accommodating

Low support High support

Low Low

Low influence

expectations expectations

Store manager Area leader

The table below illustrates the key differences between the approaches

Low expectations

and functions performed by both types of retail leaders.

STORE MANAGERS: AREA LEADERS:

control influence

tell ask

train coach

do follow up/support

plan for now plan for the future

5

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

A store manager can control results on a daily basis. Store managers are

able to be hands-on and usually work from day to day, and week to week,

focusing on the here and now. They are able to direct staff to do what

needs to be done and can give on-the-spot training and feedback to the

sales staff. They recruit, train and manage their own staff daily.

Area leaders spend more time in stores than they do in any other part

of the business, so they have more contact with the staff and customers

than anyone else in a middle-management leadership role within the

business. When a new business strategy needs to be communicated and

implemented throughout the store network, it is often the responsibility of

the area leader to ensure its seamless roll out.

Area leaders need a broader range of skills than store managers. They

need to learn to influence behaviours, to think more strategically and to

be able to forward plan.

Area leadership: The most influential

role in retail

I believe area leaders are more influential than any other leaders in retail.

Even though online retail sales are growing, 85% of all retail sales are still

made face-to-face, in bricks-and-mortar stores. So, strategically, it makes

good business sense to invest in your retail stores and in people, who

remain your greatest sales avenue. It is vital that investment in frontline

leadership become a bigger strategic focus for retailers.

All retailers work hard to improve their results. Thousands of retailers invest

large amounts in enabling their teams of area leaders to spend most of

their working days visiting stores. When salaries, on-costs and travel costs

are considered, this can total millions of dollars.

But, dissecting the training and development budgets of most retailers, it

would appear that there is least investment in training and developing area

leaders to do their roles and deliver results. There is an assumption that a

successful store manager can slip straight into an area leader role, without

there being any consideration of the need for investment in teaching the

new skills she or he might need to develop.

6

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 1 The role of the area leader

There is often far more investment in the induction and training of the

newest staff members joining the business than there is for a new area

leader who has just been promoted to the role.

It is not surprising that, without investment in training and acknowledgement

of the change and focus required for the new role, a newly-appointed area

leader could lack clarity in regard to that role, resulting in a choice to stay

well within her/his comfort zone and to retreat back into the store manager

persona that had been successful previously. Stuck in that comfort zone, the

new area leader becomes the pseudo store manager for the day at each of

the stores she/he visits as area leader, because this feels comfortable and

makes her/him feel useful.

Area leadership: The most rewarding

role in retail (when done well)!

Throughout my twenty-five-year career in retail, my time spent as an area

leader was, without doubt, the best and most rewarding of those twenty-

five years – building and being part of a community, and creating a sense

of belonging and connection among a group of passionate people who

were all working together towards a single vision and shared goals.

It was always rewarding to watch a new person join my regional team,

usually starting as a novice travel consultant, then working their way

to become a store manager and then advancing further to become a

successful area leader.

I can recount many stories about young, keen, enthusiastic people building

amazing careers, like the story about Adrian on the next page. This was the

part of being an area leader that I loved most. Nothing gave me greater

job satisfaction than watching a store manager from my region promoted

to an area leader position and then watching their success in that role lead

them to further promotion and more recognition. Decisions that I made as

an area leader, supporting and encouraging new employees and assisting

their development, benefitted not only the employee but also the entire

business long-term.

7

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Case Study: Adrian

I interviewed Adrian who had applied for a novice travel consultant position.

He was young, not long out of high school, and had limited experience.

He didn’t quite have all of the necessary skills, mainly due to his youth and

lack of experience, but he was full of passion and enthusiasm.

I couldn’t give him a job right then, but my advice to him was that, if he