SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Leadership Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for effective store visits, including planning, preparation, and empowering store managers to take on more responsibilities.
KEYWORDS: store visits, area leadership, retail strategy, delegation, training and development
---

their region?’ This is a difficult question to answer because the ideal number

depends on a lot of factors, such as the geography of the area (regional

or metropolitan), the size of the stores and the specific requirements and

responsibilities of the area leader. However, I am convinced that area

leaders can be responsible for larger regions with greater numbers of

stores if they implement the strategies suggested in this book, becoming

more strategic in their approach and the way they spend their time and

providing the space and opportunity for store managers to step up. There

also needs to be a commitment from the business leaders to provide

training and development to store managers, providing them with the

necessary skills.

Have you ever:

• asked yourself, while driving to a store for a store visit, ‘What will

I cover in this visit today?’ – being unclear on the outcomes you

wanted to achieve?

76

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 8 Strategy 3 Deliver on your store visits

• left a store after a store visit and remembered later that there was

something you intended to share or discuss, but that you had

forgotten?

• been unexpectedly ‘blindsided’ by a resignation from one of your

store managers?

• carried out activities in a store that are really the role of the

store manager?

• needed to reschedule a store visit at the last minute to ‘put out a fire’

in a store somewhere else?

All of these scenarios can result from a lack of planning and a lack of

preparation for your store visits. They can all be avoided with some focus

on the right areas.

The following pages contain some of my recommended strategies to assist

with preparation and planning. Some of these strategies involve a change

of belief and mindset while some will require a change in behaviour. They

might be enough to encourage some area leaders to undertake a degree

of self-reflection and self-discipline, to change what isn’t working and try

something new.

Strategies for store visits

Quality not quantity of store visits

In most cases, you should only need to visit a particular store once or twice

a month – at most!

It is the quality of a store visit rather than the quantity of store visits that

will make the biggest difference to your results. The need to visit stores too

frequently can sometimes result from lack of preparation.

If every store visit was prepared and delivered with purposeful outcomes,

area leaders wouldn’t need to spend quite so much precious time on the

road driving from store to store. Their time could be spent on important

areas of the business and would contribute more to favourable results.

77

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Creating business folders

Do you keep a notebook and make notes during each store visit?

When conducting store visits, how do you make notes regarding your

conversations? What system do you have in place for following up after

your store visits?

I have found that area leaders use a variety of tools to varying degrees of

success. The following is what I have taught many area leaders and it has

changed the way many of them work.

I own the fact that what I am about to suggest isn’t the most environmentally-

friendly system and there are more ecofriendly ways to store information.

But, using a pen and paper (and relaxing your environmentally responsible

attitudes in this one instance) may be a sacrifice worth making for an

enormous difference to your results and the way you work.

This system will enable you to have more focused store visits and to keep

all of your information in the one place. It will also make it easier to follow

up whether staff have enacted suggestions made during your visit.

I suggest you purchase two good quality display books for each store in

your region. If there are ten stores you will buy twenty folders. Invest in the

ones that have twenty plastic pockets in which you can insert documents

and that allow you to insert a page into the front cover. These should each

cost you $7.00, or less, from major stationery suppliers.

I call these ‘business folders’. For each store, one of the business folders

you purchase is for you and the other is for the store manager. Each

business folder becomes the place for all of the information you gather

about one store to be filed. Information, such as the store budget, the store

business plan, local store marketing plans, notes from one-on-ones and

any other business information should be kept in a store’s business folder.

This means that you have one folder for each store and each store manager

also has her/his own folder. Each store manager should use her/his

business folder for the same purpose as you use your folder; to store all

the business information pertaining to the store.

78

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 8 Strategy 3 Deliver on your store visits

In addition, I suggest purchasing two A4 exercise books for each store.

Again, this is one book per store for you and one for each of the store

managers. The book for each store should be kept in your business folder

for that store. These books are where you make notes from store visits,

from discussions with store managers and assistant store managers, and

from one-on-ones with staff, along with any other notes you might make

relating to individual stores.

When you conduct your store visits, you and the store manager should

both use your business folder for reference and to make further notes.

Use of these folders creates a more professional business mindset, not

only for an area leader but also for store managers, and it makes following

up much easier for you.

Scheduling your store visits

The way you schedule your store visits does require some thought. There