SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Management, Employee Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of developing and investing in assistant store managers, who are key future leaders in the retail business.
KEYWORDS: assistant store managers, employee development, retail management, future leaders, training
---

Developing your assistant store managers

The time and money you invest in developing your assistant store managers

will pay dividends down the track. You might invest in quarterly training

sessions; or in them attending focus groups; or in providing specific

projects for which they are responsible, such as a local store marketing

initiative, training a new staff member or driving promotion of a particular

product, etc.

The best time for developing and inspiring this important group of future

leaders is during your store visits – spending time with them, getting to

know them, career planning with them one-on-one and giving them a

sense that their role is important. When you start to give their important

role more focus in this way, more people will begin to see it as an attractive

and valued role in the business and will aspire to take it on.

Assistant store manager focus groups

I have already highlighted the importance of assistant store manager

meetings (in Chapter 10). Asking assistant store managers to participate in

focus groups can also be a great way to gain feedback on future business

strategies.

125

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

I held quarterly focus groups and at least one of them would be specifically

for assistant store managers to gain insights into how the business could

be improved. I found that groups of assistant store managers often

had valuable information and feedback to share, and the focus groups

provided a vehicle for me to hear and implement some of their ideas.

Having multiple assistant store managers

Most retailers will have some stores that are particularly busy, trading seven

days a week. These are sometimes known as ‘flagship’ stores. These stores

require more staff, juggling multiple shifts, and provide an opportunity

to have multiple assistant store managers who can lead the way in the

stores and learn the ropes at the same time – fulfilling their apprenticeship.

Some retailers are reluctant to adopt this approach because they see it

as a cost, but I feel it is far more costly to fail to have a solid succession

and development plan. The more grounding that can be given to assistant

store managers as leaders, the better it is for the business long-term.

126

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Strategy 7 Develop your future leaders:

Light bulbs

Type here

127

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Strategy 7 Develop your future leaders:

Actions

Type here

128

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 13

Conclusion

I will never forget the excitement I felt when I received the call from Geoff

Harris to let me know that I had ‘got the job’ when he appointed me to the

role of Flight Centre Travel Group’s first area leader in Victoria. My elation

at starting a new role was mixed with the sadness of leaving my store team

who had become like my second family. But I also couldn’t wait for the

opportunity to show other store managers how to achieve the results I had

been able to achieve. I felt like I could change the world! I knew how to

run a successful store so, surely, it would be just a matter of telling those

other store managers what to do so they could achieve the same results

as me – or so I thought!

Over the following few years my excitement and enthusiasm turned to

frustration and I was overwhelmed. I wish someone had written this book

back then, so I could have referred to it. It would have been like having

a mentor who related to my struggles and could guide me, prepare me,

teach me the new skills I needed to learn and the shift in mindset I would

need to make, and help me understand how different the area leader role

would be to that of the store manager role I had left.

I can’t help but think of all of the potentially successful area leaders who

have stepped away from their roles as a result of not receiving the right

training and guidance to adapt their approach to leadership – to start

leading through influence, rather than through control.

From a business perspective, millions of dollars have been invested over

the years in recruiting area leaders to their roles, but not much has been

invested to develop them in the roles and set them up for success.

In my own coaching and training business and, now, in this book, I have

attempted to share my own experience of being an area leader and of

leading area leaders. I have found there are four general categories into

which area leaders can be seen to fit, according to how they deliver on

support and expectations (see Chapter 2).

129

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

1 ‘Accommodating’ area leaders (providing high support and having

low expectations)

2 ‘Controlling’ area leaders (providing low support and having high

expectations)

3 ‘Stagnating’ area leaders (providing low support and having low

expectations)

4 ‘Empowering’ area leaders (providing high support and having high

expectations)

Area leaders categorised as ‘empowering’ usually find a balance between

the creation of a great working environment and implementation of

strategies that achieve results. Becoming a leader of this type is the goal

at which to aim. But ‘empowering’ area leaders don’t suddenly appear.

Typically, they evolve through some experience of behaviours from the

other three categories of area leadership, often starting as accommodating

(high support, low expectations) and evolving through experience.

If you seek out the necessary support and specific training to become an

‘empowering’ area leader, you will come to see the resolution of many of

the issues you face in your role.

If you are not achieving what you want to achieve in the role, I hope

you have found some answers in the pages of this book. But, from my

own experience, the best place to start is focusing on improving the