SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Area Leadership in Retail
SUMMARY: The text discusses different types of area leaders in retail, focusing on their level of support and expectations for their teams.
KEYWORDS: area leadership, retail management, leadership styles, employee engagement, store operations
---

15

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Types of Area Leaders

High expectations

Controlling Empowering

Low support High support

High High

expectations expectations

High support

Low support

Stagnating Accommodating

Low support High support

Low Low

expectations expectations

Low expectations

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Controlling

Empowering

Low support

• store managers being unclear as to what degree of autonomHiyg ht hey High support

High

have and which decisions they are able to make indepenedxepencttlaytions expectations

• accepting store managers doing only what is required of them

without going above and beyond for the customer or the

organisation

• an evident lack of teamwork and harmony in the stores in

their regions

• a constant need to put out spot fires at store level that result from

some of the symptoms listed above.

3 T HE ‘STAGNATING’ AREA LEADER

Stagnating Accommodating

(LOW SUPPORT AND LOW EXPECTATIONS) Low support High support

Low Low

An area leader categorised as ‘stagnating’ will appear expectations expectations

inconsistent across the environments and strategies of

their region.

Leaders from this category probably have no systems or

strategies in place.

They may have been in the role for some time and have already tried the

different styles described in the other three quadrants of the diagram, but

with no success.

These types of area leaders have lost sight of the purpose of their role

and are unclear regarding the outcomes they want to achieve. It feels

as if they are trying to keep all those plates we discussed in Chapter 1

spinning at once and will, at times, feel quite overwhelmed. They will be

so overwhelmed that they find it difficult to stay focused on a task and will

be constantly trying to ‘tick boxes’ as an indicator of achievement while

feeling confused as to why they aren’t actually achieving anything. They

may develop a mindset that there is a lack of reward for effort in their role.

If they can’t find ways to make their roles work for them, they will likely step

down from their area leader positions or leave the organisation.

Typical symptoms of ‘stagnating’ area leaders might be:

• low staff engagement and little desire to achieve budgets

• high staff turnover, particularly of store managers

16

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Types of Area Leaders

High expectations

Controlling Empowering

Low support High support

High High

expectations expectations

High support

Low support

Stagnating Accommodating

Low support High support

Low Low

expectations expectations

ChapterL 2o w eTxhpee cftoatuiorn scategories of area leaders

• disharmony or frustration among staff

• disengagement with the area leader role and its purpose.

4 T HE ‘EMPOWERING’ AREA LEADER

(HIGH SUPPORT AND HIGH EXPECTATIONS)

An area leader categorised as ‘empowering’ will be

responsible Cfoorn tbroallliangnce between the creation of a

Empowering

Low support

great working environment and implementation of High support

High

High

strategies theaxtp aeccthatiieonvse results.

expectations

Typically, those leading from this category deliver

the best results. They are able to create and

maintain high performing stores, regardless of their customer demographic

or location. They take complete ownership of their region and its results.

These area leaders develop store managers who take full responsibility for

results, deliver a consistent customer experience and create environments

that make their stores great places to work. They demonstrate a genuine

care for the organisation’s brand.

Ultimately, these area leaders are able to achieve results by providing high

Stagnating Accommodating

levels of support in order to achieve the high expectations they have of

Low support High support

their store manLaogwe rs and staff. Low

expectations expectations

‘Empowering’ area leaders will:

• be highly driven to achieve

• deliver or exceed their budget expectations

• take ownership of and responsibility for their region and will believe

in the company’s goals and vision

• be passionate about the company brand and will find purpose in the

area leader role

• be highly respected by their staff and their peers.

Moving between the categories of area leader

From my own research and experience of working with hundreds of area

leaders, I have found there to be a correlation between motivational

behaviours from leaders and great results in regions. However,

17

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

‘empowering’ area leaders don’t suddenly appear. There is typically an

evolution through the other categorical behaviours that occurs.

HOW ‘ACCOMMODATING’ AREA LEADERS CAN BECOME

‘CONTROLLING’ AREA LEADERS

Typically, area leaders start as ‘accommodating’ (high support and low

expectations), wanting to support their stores and wanting to be liked –

which results in wanting to please the people with which they deal, solving

their problems and making everyone happy. Sometimes area leaders

promoted from retail roles have become the leader of those who had been

their peers and it takes some time to transition to this new role and the

change in relationships it represents.

When results are not being achieved, the ‘accommodating’ area leader

becomes frustrated. The role starts to feel difficult. The area leader,

becoming uncertain of where to focus attention, starts to give even more

to the role, working longer hours hoping that will achieve better results.

As they work longer and longer hours to get the job done (trying to ‘spin

more plates’), resentment starts to build. As a result, these area leaders

may move from the ‘accommodating’ category to the ‘controlling’ one.

HOW ‘ACCOMMODATING’ AREA LEADERS CAN BECOME

‘EMPOWERING’ AREA LEADERS

At the same point ‘accommodating’ area leaders find themselves dealing

with the frustration that could lead them to become ‘controlling’ area

leaders, they could also take the path of moving from the ‘accommodating’

category of area leaders to the ‘empowering’ category.

The decision to find ways to move from ‘accommodating’ to ‘empowering’

usually results from receiving helpful, honest feedback from a leader or

mentor, which assists the area leaders to find a balance between the

support given to their stores and the expectations they have for them.