SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses tools and strategies for effective retail store visits, including KPIs, checklists, and one-on-one meetings with store managers.
KEYWORDS: store visits, retail management, key performance indicators, store manager, preparation
---

standards and it will save you time during your visit.

Tools for your visit

If you have followed the suggestions I have made, you will now have:

1 a key performance indicators (KPIs) template

2 a store visit preparation sheet

3 a business folder for each store.

Each store manager will also have:

1 a store manager preparation sheet

2 a brand standards checklist

3 a business folder for her/his own store.

If you design and utilise these tools, you will improve the quality of your

store visits and the outcomes achieved by them.

88

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 8 Strategy 3 Deliver on your store visits

Have a consistent focus

It is important not to focus on too many strategies at once.

Your store manager meeting, held at the start of each month, should be

the vehicle to drive the strategy for your region (see Chapter 10). On

your store visits, you can then follow up on the discussion and decisions

from the meeting, helping and supporting store managers with their

implementation of the strategy.

When you have a well thought out, well-planned monthly store manager

meeting, your store visits are able to reflect and reinforce the focus from

the meeting and any key strategies moving forward.

If your store manager meeting highlighted an upcoming promotion, that

should be followed up during your store visit.

Executing your store visits

Once you have done the planning, it is time to visit your stores.

The goal is for your visits to be well-planned and well-prepared, so that

you don’t need to visit every store often. Preparation and planning will

mean that you will spend more quality time in each store and each visit will

usually take half the day, or a maximum of three hours.

I prefer for one-on-ones with store managers to take place away from the

store. A local coffee shop is usually a good place to sit and focus, with no

distractions.

Store managers appreciate receiving individual attention and this helps

build strong trusting relationships with them.

I understand that, due to staffing levels, off-site meetings of this kind might

present a challenge but, if the visit is planned well in advance, plenty of

notice is given and the visits occur infrequently, staffing levels should be

able to be addressed to accommodate your visit.

On the day you are planning to visit staffing levels might be inadequate,

meaning that the staff with whom you want to meet are not free. I suggest

that you organise visits on a day when staffing levels are not an issue. It is

pointless visiting a store if you can’t spend quality uninterrupted time with

the store manager, or with anyone else with whom you want a one-on-one

discussion.

89

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Importantly, part of your store visit should also be devoted to spending

time with the assistant store manager. This meeting should be an abridged

version of your discussion with the store manager. Meeting in this way with

assistant store managers will help you to build relationships with them and

provide one-on-one support for their development as future leaders.

If there is part-time or casual staff working on the day of your visit, ensure

you spend time with them also – ideally, out of the store, but even time

within the store would suffice.

Conducting your one-on-ones

Your one-on-one discussions with your store managers are possibly the

best opportunity you will have to ensure the agreed strategies to improve

your region’s results are being implemented. Remember, your goal should

be to elevate the quality of your one-on-ones so that the need for you to

visit stores frequently is reduced. Having positive and focused one-on-ones

is also the best way to build trusting relationships with your store managers

and with all staff members.

Here are some tips to help you with the effectiveness of your one-on-ones.

AVOID ANY INTERRUPTIONS

Be genuinely interested and attentive during one-on-ones with store

managers. Just as you have spent time preparing for the discussion, so

have they.

Your mindset for any one-on-one, with store managers or staff, needs to

be the same as your mindset would be for a business meeting. This means

putting away your mobile phone or, if you must keep it near you, turning

the ringtone down and avoiding answering any calls, if you can. Your store

managers will really appreciate having your undivided attention.

As much as we might want to get to know our staff, it is important that

the time spent together in one-on-one discussions is meaningful and

businesslike. Don’t be distracted by fluffy conversation about your dog,

or what you watched on television the previous night. This is just a waste

of valuable time. I like to save this kind of informal chit chat for when I first

arrive in a store and greet the team, or as we are walking to the coffee

shop for a one-on-one.

90

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 8 Strategy 3 Deliver on your store visits

BE CLEAR OF PURPOSE

Once we sit to begin our discussion, I like to start by stating what I hope

to achieve from our discussion time together. At the beginning of the

discussion, I always ask the store manager or staff member what they hope

to achieve from it too.

Remember, any one-on-one is a two-way conversation and you need

to ensure that, as well as your desired outcomes for the meeting being

achieved, the desired outcomes of the individual with whom you are

meeting are also achieved.

I always had a template for my one-on-ones. This helped me stay on track

and ensured I didn’t leave the store after the visit having forgotten to

discuss something that I needed to cover. While having a template does

help you keep on track, it is important to be mindful that you also ensure

that your one-on-ones don’t feel like interviews or interrogations.