SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Leadership Strategies
SUMMARY: The author, an area leader in retail, shares her experience of managing a career and family, implementing new strategies to improve store performance and employee engagement.
KEYWORDS: retail leadership, work-life balance, employee engagement, store performance, business growth
---

Introduction

With a young family to consider, I had returned to the area leader role

knowing that, if I was to successfully juggle a career and a family, I needed

to find a better way of managing it all and to focus on the things that would

matter most to deliver the best results – at home and at work. I needed to

turn things around in my work role as quickly as possible.

I knew I was facing an enormous challenge, but it would also be a wonderful

opportunity to revisit a previous role and do it differently, changing the way

I operated and applying newfound knowledge from my time training the

new store managers. I realised I needed to change the way I performed

the area leader role the second time around.

One of the first things I needed to learn was how to structure my time

more efficiently – daily, weekly and monthly – and to make all the time

I spent count, allowing me to lead with maximum influence in the best

ways possible.

I needed to focus on what I had discovered during my time spent training

the store managers, employing to best advantage not only what I had

learnt but also what I believed would make the biggest difference to the

success of the stores in my area.

I knew I would have to make many changes to almost every aspect of

the region, but I was up for the challenge. There is no doubt that the first

twelve months were difficult, but they were also very exciting.

I needed to develop some new store leaders quickly and to recruit new

travel consultants and have them trained as quickly as possible. Existing

store leaders not only needed to raise their standards and the expectations

they had of themselves and their teams but they also needed to feel

valued and appreciated for the important role they played. Most of all,

people at every level of the business in my area needed to feel valued and

appreciated. They needed to feel connected to and personally invested in

their team and to the region of which their store was a part.

As a business, we all needed to focus on valuing our customers and

providing them with the best experience possible.

There was an enormous opportunity for growth. I was able to add an

additional five stores to the region very quickly.

After two years of hard work, building a dedicated leadership team and

addressing almost every aspect of the business, my region’s group of

xiv

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Introduction

23 stores became the most profitable region in Victoria and the second

most profitable region globally.

Results indicated that the strategies I had implemented over my two

years in the role were working. The results were consistent and they were

strong. Over the next two years the region continued to perform very well,

achieving year-on-year growth.

After four satisfying and rewarding years of leading my region, I was asked

to take on the role of state leader for Victoria and Tasmania, leading 149

stores and a team of six area leaders. These area leaders had been my

peers, but I was being asked to be their leader.

The decision to accept the offer was not an easy one because I had worked

very hard and invested a lot of myself into building my region, which was

by then recording some fantastic results. I had come to love the people in

my region and the store managers were like a part of my extended family.

But state leadership roles are not offered every day and, if I hadn’t taken

the role then, who knows if and when it would have been offered again.

So I accepted the role, with the blessing of everyone I had worked with in

my region.

At this time, the performance of the business across the whole state was

not meeting expectations. I began visiting many stores and speaking to

many store managers. Those conversations revealed many of the same

challenges and feelings I had heard years before. But I was confident, if I

implemented the same strategies and held the same philosophies I had as

a successful area leader, I could replicate the same good results as a state

leader. It was a big job, but I was up for the challenge.

During the eight years that followed, I opened a further 80 stores and the

team of area leaders in my region grew from six to ten. Over those eight

years, the business in my region increased, from a profit of $18 million to

$49 million, making it the most profitable division within the Flight Centre

Travel Group globally.

I am incredibly proud of the results that were achieved by my whole team

and even prouder of those area leaders who eventually took on even

bigger roles within the Flight Centre Travel Group.

The experience of leading a large team of area leaders highlighted to

me the pivotal role those individuals played in the results of the business.

xv

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Introduction

They had the greatest influence on how stores performed and provided

essential inspiration and motivation for their store managers.

From my years of experience, I have no doubt that area leaders have

the most challenging role in a retail business, but it can also be the most

rewarding role if done well.

I became convinced that the philosophies I had developed and

implemented during my time at Flight Centre could be successfully

implemented in any organisation wanting to improve results, in any

industry. So, in 2016, after twenty-five years at Flight Centre, I made the

huge life decision to start my own leadership company.

Since 2016, I have been combining and refining all of my knowledge, first-

hand experience and philosophies, to create a range of workshops and

programs to teach and support other business leaders to improve their