SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses how accommodating area leaders can transition to become empowering leaders through mentorship, mindset shifts, and specific training.
KEYWORDS: retail leadership, area leadership development, mindset shift, mentorship, training
---

The decision to find ways to move from ‘accommodating’ to ‘empowering’

usually results from receiving helpful, honest feedback from a leader or

mentor, which assists the area leaders to find a balance between the

support given to their stores and the expectations they have for them.

Recognising there is a need to change their mindsets and build their own

self-esteem and confidence in their abilities often results from engaging

a mentor or receiving supportive leadership from their workplace leader.

This change of mindset could be all that is required for an ‘accommodating’

area leader to start to become an ‘empowering’ one.

18

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 2 The four categories of area leaders

HOW ‘ACCOMMODATING’ AREA LEADERS CAN BECOME

‘STAGNATING’ AREA LEADERS

It is at the point when a region is not achieving results that an area leader

could lose confidence in his/her ability, becoming overwhelmed with the

role and feeling that the rewards are not worth the effort being made. An

area leader in this position could slip from being an ‘accommodating’ area

leader to being a ‘stagnating’ one. This is a point at which the area leader

could consider stepping down from the role or leaving the organisation

altogether.

It is a real shame when this happens because the circumstances are

avoidable. With specific training and mentoring, and a shift in mindset,

a disillusioned area leader can make the transition to a more productive

category of area leader and find ways to be successful.

The area leader category checklist

As you read through some of the behaviours displayed by the four

categories of area leaders, I am sure you were able to identify with some

of them. You may have even experienced moving through some of the

categories throughout your own journey as an area leader.

On the following pages is a checklist aimed at helping you to identify

which type of area leader category you are leading from. Once you have

completed the checklist, the category with the most ticks will indicate the

category that best describes your area leadership. This also will indicate the

areas on which you need to focus in order to move into the ‘empowering’

category of area leader.

If you seek the support and specific training necessary for you to become

an ‘empowering’ area leader, you will come to see the resolution of many

of your area leader issues, as well as an increase in staff engagement and

retention – and you will feel a genuine sense of reward for effort.

The more you can reach out to mentors and find ways to develop your

leadership capabilities, the quicker you can grow and move towards being

the best area leader you can be. Not only will you achieve better results,

you will remain motivated to stay invested in your region and its people.

19

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Area leader category checklist

Put a tick in the column provided beside each of the descriptions you think

applies to you.

ACCOMMODATING ü

I often avoid having honest conversations, even when I know they are

needed.

I feel the results I am achieving do not reflect the enormous effort I am

making.

I place more value on my relationships with my teams than on the results

they achieve.

I feel deflated when I can’t solve a store manager’s problem.

Above all else, I have a need to be liked.

I sometimes feel store managers take advantage of me.

I accept poor performance too easily.

CONTROLLING

I become frustrated when store managers make excuses and don’t achieve

what I expect.

I know my region’s KPIs and ensure that my store managers know theirs.

When visiting stores, I place a high emphasis on KPIs.

I become frustrated when people only do the minimum expected of them

and don’t go above and beyond to deliver results.

I value results over relationships.

I am comfortable with replacing people if they are not achieving results.

I become frustrated when store managers find it difficult to make decisions

for themselves.

(Continued on next page)

20

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 2 The four categories of area leaders

STAGNATING

I sometimes question whether this is the role for me.

Often I cannot see how my role has a direct impact on achieving store results.

I am unsure of the outcomes I want to achieve from my store visits.

I sometimes feel I am ‘ticking boxes’ just to justify my role.

I find it very challenging to create a plan and follow it through.

I don’t feel that my role rewards me for the effort I make.

I feel disengaged in my role most of the time.

EMPOWERING

I place equal value on my relationships with store managers/staff and the

results they achieve.

My store visits are well planned with a clear purpose and outcome.

I expect high standards in store presentation and brand standards.

I feel that my store managers find me approachable.

I have a good team of store managers who are experienced in their roles.

I provide reward and recognition for the results my stores achieve.

I work hard but feel rewarded and recognised for the results I achieve.

This ‘Area leader category checklist’ is available for you to copy from my website:

www.alisoncrabb.com.au

21

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The four categories of area leaders:

Light bulbs

Type here

22

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The four categories of area leaders:

Actions

Type here

23

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 3

The performance pyramid

In 1993, I was very fortunate to travel to Egypt. Like most tourists, I was

excited to visit the Pyramids of Giza. The Giza pyramids were built in

3000 BCE. Historical analysis tells us that they took 85 years to build. It is

incredible that, thousands of years later, they are still standing in all their

magnificence. But the reason they are still standing is that they were built