SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses a retail manager's advice and hiring decision for a passionate but inexperienced candidate who later became a successful store manager and area leader.
KEYWORDS: employee development, hiring decisions, retail management, career growth, enthusiasm
---

He didn’t quite have all of the necessary skills, mainly due to his youth and

lack of experience, but he was full of passion and enthusiasm.

I couldn’t give him a job right then, but my advice to him was that, if he

went and had some further work experience and then contacted me again

in twelve months, I would re-interview him.

Twelve months later, to the day, I received a call from Adrian. He said, ‘Hi

Alison, my name is Adrian. You may not remember me, but you interviewed

me twelve months ago today. You said that I needed to get more experience.

Well, I took your advice and I have been working for Optus in one of their

retail stores. I have worked my way up to be a store manager and I am ringing

to see if I can be interviewed by you again.’

After a long conversation, I said to him, ‘Adrian, there is no need for me to

re-interview you. I remember you and you have shown me that you have the

attitude and enthusiasm to do well. You have the job!’

Not only did Adrian have an outstanding first twelve months in the role I

employed him to fill with Flight Centre, he became a very successful store

manager who was able to turn around underperforming stores.

Some years later, when Flight Centre expanded into Asia, the business

needed skilled people to help set up the retail arm of the business in

Singapore. They were looking for someone who could open a store, train

leaders quickly and, just as quickly, be ready to move on and open the next

store. Adrian was appointed to the role and did a fabulous job often wearing

two hats, as a store manager and an area leader. He remained in Singapore

successfully for a few years before returning to Melbourne.

8

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The role of the area leader:

Light bulbs

Type here

9

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The role of the area leader:

Actions

Type here

10

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 2

The four categories of

area leaders

When you think about your role as an area leader, what do you believe

your purpose to be?

I am not referring to your job description. I’m asking you what you believe

to be the true purpose of your role? Why were area leaders put on

this Earth?

I want you to think beyond the role’s job description and to reflect on the

following questions:

1 Why do retailers invest resources to have area leaders in their

businesses?

2 What do you believe the true purpose of the role of an area

leader to be?

3 If I was to ask the CEO of your organisation the same two questions

about the role of an area leader, how would she or he answer them?

Area leaders are a single point of contact for most of what happens at

store level and they, most certainly, have the greatest influence on how

well sales teams meet the needs of customers.

Area leader roles are roles of influence rather than of control. Area

leaders influence the behaviour of all the store managers and staff for

whom they are responsible. An area leader cannot be in every store every

day (although some may try – remember Mary and the spinning plates

in Chapter 1)! Fundamentally, area leaders are at the heart of a retailer’s

communication and are the source of all information relayed to stores from

upper management. They communicate all areas of the organisation’s

support functions to stores and are the avenue for stores to provide

feedback back to the providers of those various support functions.

11

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

To your stores, as an area leader, you are the face of the organisation’s

brand and you represent to them all facets of the business. Your attitude,

body language, mindset and choices matter. What you model in your own

behaviour will be the behaviour that is adopted and displayed by the

personnel in your stores.

Area leaders assume a lot of different roles within the retail landscape:

leader; motivator; problem solver; recruiter; mentor; and merchandiser –

sometimes juggling several of these roles simultaneously (or spinning

those plates)!

Every area leader wants to do a great job for the organisation but all of

them can easily lose sight of their respective roles and, with the best of

intentions, take on the duties of the store managers of the stores they

visit. Having worked with many area leaders, I have seen this happen for a

variety of reasons.

1 Sometimes it is because they genuinely want to help and support

the store managers with their roles.

2 They may have a mindset that they can best support the store

manager by taking this approach.

3 Maybe they are not sure of their own role, or how it enables them

to make a difference so, having come from store manager roles

themselves, they revert to what they know and with which they are

most comfortable.

Expectations and support

From dealing with the hundreds of area leaders I have led and with whom

I have worked, I have come to realise that area leaders require a well-

developed capacity for providing to their store personnel what are best

described as ‘expectations’ and ‘support’.

Expectations: Ensuring that everyone knows what is expected of them in

their roles. Area leaders should have a clear insight into what they expect

of stores and personnel, and this needs to be clearly communicated to

store managers and understood by them. Area leaders should also know

what store managers expect from them.

12

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 2 The four categories of area leaders

Support: Area leaders need to provide store managers with the tools and

training for them to be able to deliver on what is expected of them. Store