SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Store Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of one-on-one discussions between area leaders and store managers, including the use of a template, limiting the number of actions, and avoiding the risk of taking over the store manager's role.
KEYWORDS: store visits, one-on-one discussions, store management, performance review, strategy implementation
---

and ensured I didn’t leave the store after the visit having forgotten to

discuss something that I needed to cover. While having a template does

help you keep on track, it is important to be mindful that you also ensure

that your one-on-ones don’t feel like interviews or interrogations.

On the next page is a sample template that you can use for your one-on-

ones or that might be helpful in assisting you to design your own.

I like to use paper and pen to make my notes because I find devices like

iPads impersonal and distracting. Just remember that the store manager

will have done preparation for your store visit and, like you, should have

a business folder containing information and topics for discussion (see

where business folders are discussed earlier in this chapter).

From a single discussion, I usually restrict the number of actions or

strategies we record and plan to implement to just two or three. One

strategy, well implemented, can sometimes be better than three which

have not been carried out well.

Simply use my recommendation of limiting the number of activities and

strategies to be carried out as a result of each discussion as a guide

and base your own expectations on each store’s results and the level of

experience of each store manager. Based on the discussion, the area

leader and store manager might both have actions to follow up, but I have

known some area leaders to have a very long ‘To do’ list at the end of a

visit. This is not what is intended. The purpose of one-on-one discussions

of this kind is to empower the store manager to run the store, with your

support. Be careful that you do not fall into the habit of stepping in as

pseudo store manager and taking over the role.

91

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

AREA LEADER STORE VISIT TEMPLATE

Date of visit: Store: Store manager:

What I want to achieve from this visit:

What the store manager wants to achieve from this visit:

Review performance/results (what the numbers are saying)

Week to date:

Month to date:

Which KPIs need focus?

People check

Is there anything particular with which the store manager needs help?

How are the individual team members performing? Is there anything we need to

discuss in regard to this?

Strategies and actions:

1

2

3

Specific focus:

How/when will I follow up to ensure desired outcomes are achieved?

This table is available for you to copy from my website: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

92

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 8 Strategy 3 Deliver on your store visits

I have found one-on-ones can cover a range of things that can’t always

be listed or recorded on a template. However, if you are able to use the

template provided on the previous page as a guide and adapt it to your

own purposes, it will make a difference to the quality of your store visits.

Following up your store visits

Every store visit should finish with agreement on the strategies or actions

to be implemented before the next visit. The store manager will have

actions to perform and strategies to implement, but you may also have

things that you have agreed to implement or follow up and it is important

that you follow through with those. Failure to do this is one certain way to

break trust with store managers and staff.

You may agree with your store managers on different ways to follow up

on their progress, depending on whether the store you are visiting is a

Priority A, Priority B or Priority C store.

You may prefer to allocate time each week for following up or you might

make an agreed time at the end of each future visit to do that. If you use a

template during each store visit for recording actions and strategies to be

implemented, it will make follow up much easier. Sometimes, depending

on the nature of the strategies, you will follow up throughout the month via

phone or email, rather than waiting until your next store visit.

Regardless of whether you follow up throughout the month or not, it is

important that you discuss the strategies decided on the previous visit

when you next visit the store. This will help with consistency.

Once you are in the habit of documenting and following up, and

encouraging your store managers to do the same, you will see an

elevated level of ownership from the store managers for the business and

their results.

93

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Strategy 3 Deliver on your store visits:

Light bulbs

Type here

94

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Strategy 3 Deliver on your store visits:

Actions

Type here

95

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 9

STR 4A TE

G

Y

• •

Engage your part-time

workforce

Part-time and casual staff make up almost 70% of the retail workforce. After

hospitality, this is the second highest participation rate by part-timers and

casual workers in any Australian business sector. Retail is also the biggest

area of growth within the female workforce. The employment of casual and

part-time staff allows retailers flexibility to have more staff working at peak

shopping times and during peak shopping periods.

The availability of casual and part-time work in the retail sector also allows

many people to have a role in the workforce while studying or raising

a family. Not only employers need flexibility! When handled well, the

employment of part-time and casual staff can result in win/win situations,

mutually benefitting both retailers and their workforce.

Having such a large part-time and casual workforce, it makes good

business sense for retail employers to take good care of them, especially if

their products require confident sales staff with good product knowledge.

Training new staff can be time-consuming and costly.

I believe retailers could focus and do better in their dealings with part-