SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Leadership Strategies
SUMMARY: This text discusses strategies for retail area leaders to build a positive work environment, foster team development, create ownership, and value all employees equally.
KEYWORDS: team building, employee engagement, leadership development, customer service, organizational culture
---

vision and goals will have an enormously positive impact on the whole

environment in your region.

I found ways to ensure that the store managers spent time together, not

only working on their business but also building connections with each

other, so they felt supported not only by me but also by their peers. Store

manager meetings are a great way to connect and learn from each other

(more on this in Chapter 10). The store managers were crucial to building

the community I wanted to create.

At the start of every month I met with store managers and assistant store

managers. These meetings became the vehicle not only for building

connection but also for creating opportunities for team development. The

meetings with assistant store managers provided an opportunity for me

to see who was ready to step up and enabled me to begin building a

community within the leaders of the future.

4 Creating ownership

If we want leaders to achieve results, they first need to take ownership

of the results for which they are aiming. Each leader needs to have the

mindset that she or he ‘owns their business’. This need not be physical or

financial ownership, but it does need to be ‘spiritual’ and psychological

ownership.

To meet my regional budget goals, rather than giving each store manager

a target for making her/his share of the total target figure, I would ask

each store manager to develop her/his own store budget goal, ensuring

they each had ownership of their own target. They each needed to make

decisions for ‘their’ business; decisions that would be in line with their

budget goal and attaining it. Not only did this create ownership, it also

improved the business acumen of the store managers (more on this in

44

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 4 Building the environment

Chapters 8 and 11). I would then check that the total of all the stores’ target

figures had reached my overall regional budget goal. More often than

not, the total exceeded the regional goal because each store manager

wanted to achieve more than I had expected. Most importantly, each store

manager had committed to a target and had striven to achieve it.

5 Valuing and appreciating people (all of them)

I truly believe that everyone comes to work to do a good job. Whether they

are the store manager, or a part-time or casual staff member, everyone

needs to be valued equally. This means leaders need to have one-on-one

discussions with part-time staff, getting to know them just as well as they

know full-time staff.

I have never considered the worth of anyone based on their role; be they

store manager or part-time or casual staff member, everyone should be

valued equally.

If you treat your staff as if they are just numbers, they will behave that

way and this will impact on how customers are treated and, ultimately, on

morale. Noticing the little things that someone does and acknowledging

that will pay off. Remembering the name of someone’s partner or the

names of their children, or remembering an important date or event in

their lives can make a real difference.

I hold the philosophy that your staff are humans first and employees

second. It is about who they are, not what they do or the roles they fill.

I have always remembered the following adage and it has been a key

influence on how I have made many business decisions:

Profit is the measure of how well you meet the needs of your

customers. Your customers are the measure of how well you meet

the needs of your people.

45

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Building the environment:

Light bulbs

Type here

46

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Building the environment:

Actions

Type here

47

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 5

Building strategies

Results

planning staffing communication

business acumen Strategy store visits

succession planning leadership development

Environment

In Chapter 4, I have already shared some of the ways of building a positive

environment that were instrumental for me, as an area leader, being able

to turn around my region. You could say that creating a great environment

is actually a great strategy in itself – and you would be right. But building

an environment and building strategies are slightly different.

‘Environment’ in a business is an intangible and is difficult to measure and

quantify. ‘Strategies’ are easier to identify and easier to measure.

I have already emphasised the importance of building a great workplace

environment. Having great strategies is also crucial but I need to stress that

great strategies alone will not achieve great results.

I also need to highlight that maintaining a great environment, once

established, is in itself an ongoing strategy. This is not something usually

focused on when an area leader begins to lead a region, but it is something

that should be focused on consistently and at every opportunity.

49

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

When you have a great environment, implementing strategies becomes

easier because your teams are happy, engaged and want the organisation

to do well. They feel invested in its success.

Patrick Lencioni (in the subtitle of his book The Advantage, already

referred to in Chapter 3) says ‘organizational health [which I refer to as the

‘environment’] trumps everything else in business.’ By this I interpret him

as meaning that the achievement of the best results will happen when the

business environment and strategies are working together.

As you read through the following chapters, it may surprise you to see

that there isn’t a chapter specifically dedicated to the customer experience

or how to improve your customer service. That is not to say that I don’t

believe this to be important. I am a believer that the customer experience

can only improve if the staff experience is focused on first. What matters to