SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Store Visit Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for maximizing the effectiveness of store visits, including meeting with managers, following up on action plans, and building relationships with staff.
KEYWORDS: store visits, store manager meetings, action plans, staff relationships
---

the most out of each visit.

I have a monthly meeting with all my store managers Y S N

together and use this for communication, focus and

development.

I follow up on strategies from the store manager meetings Y S N

with each store manager during store visits.

I have a template that I follow for each store visit. This Y S N

assists me in being consistent and staying on track to help

achieve my outcomes and follow up on previous visits.

I use store visits to communicate important information Y S N

about various areas of the business, such as products,

marketing and merchandising.

I use store visits to build trusting relationships with the Y S N

store manager and the in-store team.

I work to build relationships with assistant store managers Y S N

so that I can assist with their development and career goals.

I spend time getting to know all of the staff, regardless of Y S N

their roles, so I can understand what is important to them

and am aware of their aspirations.

(Continued on next page)

70

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 7 Strategy 2 Maximise your store visits

I finish each store visit by working with the store manager Y S N

to put together her/his action plan, focusing on no more

than two or three objectives and the ways these can be met.

I create time in my schedule to follow up on each store Y S N

manager’s progress with her/his action plan.

I have a strategic approach to how I schedule visits, so I can Y S N

spend most time where it is needed.

I am comfortable with conversing honestly with staff to Y S N

help them improve in their roles.

I give praise and recognition to acknowledge achievement Y S N

of great results.

This ‘Store visit maintenance checklist’ is available for you to copy from my website:

www.alisoncrabb.com.au

71

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Strategy 2 Maximise your store visits:

Light bulbs

Type here

72

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Strategy 2 Maximise your store visits:

Actions

Type here

73

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 8

STR 3A TE

G

Y

• •

Deliver on your store visits

Case Study: Mike

I worked with Mike, an area leader who oversaw a large region of sixteen

stores. Geographically, most of his stores were close together which made it

easy for him to travel to all of his stores regularly.

Each week Mike was on a mission to visit as many stores as possible. He

judged the success of his week by how many stores he had been able to visit.

In a typical month, he would be able to visit each of his stores two or three

times and, the more often he visited a store, the better he felt.

As we started to work together, he displayed frustration that his stores were

not achieving their budget goals even though he was providing a lot of

support and being very visible within his region.

Mike was frustrated that store managers were not taking responsibility for

their results or finding ways to achieve their sales budgets themselves. The

pressure to deliver results was weighing heavily on him. He was often being

questioned by his general manager about why his stores were not meeting

expectations and what he was doing about it – which only amplified his

desire to spend more of his time in stores.

I asked Mike some questions about how he saw his role and how he was

working to understand what could be contributing to his disappointing

results. When I asked him why he felt it necessary to visit his stores so

frequently, he replied, ‘It’s what I have always done.’

He was right, it was what he had always done, but there was no real logic or

strategy behind why he visited his stores so regularly – especially when it was

not delivering results.

75

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

Many underachieving area leaders over the years have given me numerous

reasons why they felt the need to visit stores frequently, even though it did

not seem to improve their results. Among those reasons I have consistently

heard, ‘So that stores feel I am supporting them,’ or, ‘I need to make sure

they are doing the things they are meant to be doing.’

I began to wonder how area leaders making so many store visits impacts

on the mindset of their store managers.

If I was a store manager and my own area leader felt the need to visit my

store so often I would ask myself, ‘Why does she/he not trust me?’ Or

worse, when faced with a solvable problem, I might reach the point of

saying to myself, ‘I have a problem that I need to solve, but I will wait for my

area leader to visit and solve it for me.’ Area leaders who visit stores more

often than necessary tend to take initiative away from store managers to

control situations and solve their own problems. Store managers develop

the mindset of ‘caretakers’ rather than of leaders in the business. They

feel like they are just in their roles to manage the status quo and make

sure their stores are open, while all the big decisions are to be made by

someone else. Handing over responsibility in this way, so area leaders

make the decisions and solve the problems, creates in store managers a

lack of ownership and a lack of accountability for their results.

I have often been asked, ‘How many stores should an area leader have in

their region?’ This is a difficult question to answer because the ideal number

depends on a lot of factors, such as the geography of the area (regional

or metropolitan), the size of the stores and the specific requirements and

responsibilities of the area leader. However, I am convinced that area