SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Management Strategies
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of developing future retail store leaders to ensure effective store management and reduce the workload of area leaders.
KEYWORDS: succession planning, leadership development, retail management, store managers, area leaders
---

leaders being able to see the impact that the choices they make or don’t

make can have on results.

Different organisations allow different levels of autonomy to their area

leaders. Having worked with many area leaders from a variety of retailers

and businesses, I have come to realise that they largely believe they do

not have the authority to make decisions. Yet, when they ask for what they

need, they are often surprised when the response they are given is ‘Yes’

and their request is met!

Regardless of the autonomy you feel you have or don’t have, think about

the decisions you can and should make. If you are unsure, it is best to

speak to your leader about ideas or strategies on which you would like to

act or that you would like to put in place.

It is better to put forward an idea and have it rejected than not to put any

ideas forward at all.

119

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Strategy 6 Develop your business acumen:

Light bulbs

Type here

120

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Strategy 6 Develop your business acumen:

Actions

Type here

121

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 12

STR 7ATE

G

Y

• •

Develop your future leaders

If there is one thing I have learnt from my years as an area leader and the

time I have spent working with area leaders since then it is that what causes

area leaders most distress and increases their workload is not having all of

their stores led by effective store managers.

When a store is operating without an onsite leader this can result in: a

lack of focus on customers; brand standards not being upheld; no one

being held accountable for working towards achieving sales budgets; and

difficulty managing rosters. Ultimately the area leader will be required to

spend more time in that store, managing the day-to-day activities usually

carried out by the store manager. This results in the area leader having less

time for her/his other stores.

The root cause of a lack of effective store managers is a lack of succession

planning and development of future leaders.

Usually the ascension of store managers and area leaders looks like this:

Area leader

Store manager

Assistant store manager

Full-time/part-time/

casual sales assistant

123

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

The key to a happy life as an area leader is for all stores in your region

to have store managers who are motivated and engaged. The only way

to manage this is to have a consistent focus on succession planning and

the development of future leaders. As an area leader this was one of my

most important strategies and I emphasise this now when I am coaching or

working with a group of area leaders. Completing a health check of where

potential leaders currently are in their development and putting a plan in

place to continue to develop them is a must.

Without focusing on succession planning and developing future leaders,

when a vacancy arises you could be forced to fill store manager roles with

unsuitable or inexperienced people. Some of those people might have

never even wanted to be leaders, so will lack the drive and motivation for

the roles. Appointing these people to store manager roles might solve

immediate staffing problems but it does create the potential for other

problems to arise in the future.

Without a focus on succession planning and developing future leaders,

you might also be forced to recruit externally for store managers, which is

not only costly but also time-consuming. Your valuable time will be taken

up by recruiting and interviewing, as well as inducting the new recruits

and training them on business systems, product knowledge and brand

standards. Ideally, to avoid this, you want store managers to be appointed

from within the organisation. This also sends a positive message to the

staff in your region that they can have a career in leadership if they desire.

If you focus long-term on a succession plan and the development of future

leaders this can all be avoided.

Some strategies that might help you are outlined in the remainder of

this chapter.

The role of the assistant store manager

Assistant store managers play an important role in supporting the store

manager, but they play an even more important role for the area leader. A

key to ensuring you have new store managers ready to step up is to ensure

you have a team of competent assistant store managers in place.

124

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 12 Strategy 7 Develop your future leaders

Too often, assistant store managers are appointed without really

understanding their roles. Yes, they are meant to support store managers

but, just as importantly, their role represents an apprenticeship for them to

become future store managers themselves.

If you have a team of assistant store managers who do not have the desire

to be store managers, this will cause you problems when you need to fill

store manager roles. So, when you are recruiting assistant store managers,

you must ensure that a large proportion of the people you appoint want to

lead their own stores. This matter needs to be addressed and understood

during the recruitment process. It is a crucial strategy that, when carried

out well, makes succession planning easy.

Identifying bright, keen and enthusiastic staff in the early days of them

joining your region means you are able to create a leadership pathway

for them. They can see, from their early days, they have a future in your

business. The most successful store managers have usually developed

some of their skills by spending time as assistant store managers.

Developing your assistant store managers

The time and money you invest in developing your assistant store managers

will pay dividends down the track. You might invest in quarterly training

sessions; or in them attending focus groups; or in providing specific