SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Management
SUMMARY: The text describes the challenges faced by a retail business, including disorganized stores, high staff turnover, lack of product knowledge, and low staff morale.
KEYWORDS: retail management, staff training, customer experience, organizational culture, business strategy
---

describe it as, ‘Everyone came to work, sold some travel and went home.’

The stores were messy and appeared disorganised, with not even the

most basic systems in place. It became very clear that there were a lack of

standards and lack of pride in the brand across the teams.

The high staff turnover meant there were many new consultants, resulting

in a lack of the product knowledge critical for delivering the best customer

experience. Considering the fact customers were coming to us for our

travel expertise, this was far from ideal.

Consultants felt frustrated because they were not being given the support

they felt they needed to learn their roles and to be successful at them.

Many staff members felt they were constantly spending much of their time

training new staff due to the high staff turnover, which was taking them

away from their own work.

From speaking with many of the store managers, I discovered they felt lost

and directionless. Some spoke of their lack of motivation to even become

a store manager in the first place but they had felt pressured to take on the

role because they were the most experienced in their stores.

What was evident was that, despite many new people joining the

company with a genuine passion for travel and a genuine desire to have

an outstanding career, their hopes and dreams were quickly dashed once

they started in their roles.

I also saw that some individuals had low standards and couldn’t be part of

the culture I wanted to create.

With what I had uncovered, I began to construct a business plan to give

myself the best chance of turning things around. I reflected on what I had

learnt from my time training the new store managers.

What had resonated most with me was that the store managers wanted to

feel heard, supported, valued and connected. They desperately wanted to

have a sense of belonging to a community (or, as I describe it, a ‘tribe’).

They wanted to feel part of a team and this seemed to matter more to

them than anything else.

38

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Chapter 4 Building the environment

I could see that, while addressing all of the organisation’s strategic

challenges was going to take a little longer, addressing the way people

felt about their roles and the important work they did could be addressed

really quickly. Creating an environment in which people felt valued,

appreciated and part of a community was going to be the foundation I

laid for rebuilding the region.

I have seen many organisations, with clear and well-documented strategies,

but where implementing those strategies proved a struggle – often as a

result of shortcomings in the business environment.

Since 2016, I have worked with many retailers, listening to the challenges

they are facing and want to fix. Those challenges usually relate to a lack

of growth and, in some cases, a drastic decline in results relating to

areas such as profit, sales growth or market share. The cause or major

contributing factor for these problems is usually perceived as lying with

the business strategy of the business – rising costs, declining margins,

increased competition, or online disruption.

All of those are usually correct if we look at the key measures of the

business. However, as I start to work with retailers to uncover the root

cause of these strategic issues, we find the causes nearly always relate

back to the business environment. For example, some of the rising costs

in the business might be attributable to high staff turnover creating the

need to constantly recruit and train new staff. This would also impact on

the level of experience and knowledge possessed by the staff and would

impact their sales ability.

I have read many exit interviews in an attempt to understand why staff

leave their organisations. Consistently, I have found that decisions to leave

do not usually result from the strategic direction of the organisation but

from the environment. I am yet to hear of anyone leaving their place of

employment due to the organisation’s marketing plan or product strategy.

Typically I read comments like:

• ‘I didn’t get along with my manager’

• ‘I felt like a number’

• ‘My shifts were often cut at short notice, which impacted my income’

39

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail

• ‘I didn’t feel rewarded and recognised for my work’

• ‘I was expected to achieve sales targets but didn’t receive the

training to do so.’

What most impacts people’s level of happiness at work is the relationships

they have in the workplace.

Commonly, underlying issues seem to relate to how staff members feel

about their leaders and, ultimately, that affects how they feel about the

environment of the organisation.

Leaders are always responsible for the environment of the business they

lead. In a recent report by Deloitte (Access economics: Soft skills for

business success, Sydney 2017), it was highlighted that, if leaders want to

elevate the employee experience, there is an increasing need for them to

learn the softer skills of leadership, such as empathy and an understanding

of the importance of relationships and connection.

Environment versus culture

When I speak to leaders of retail businesses, I have found it can be easy

for them to confuse ‘environment’ with ‘culture’.

The environment is what often contains the intangible qualities of the

business. It is about how people feel when they come to work. The leaders

of the business create the environment, so the environment can only be as

good as the leaders of the business.

The culture is the product and result of the environment. If a business has

a cultural problem, it will have an environment problem – and if a business

has an environment problem then, ultimately, it has a leadership problem.

Le

a

d

e

r

s

h

i

p

Environ m e n t e

C u l t u r