SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Management
SUMMARY: This text chunk provides definitions of key terms related to retail management, including multi-site manager, area leader, regional leader, regional manager, and state leader.
KEYWORDS: retail management, area leadership, store management, glossary
---

multi-site manager see area leader

136

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Glossary

net promoter score (NPS) an index ranging from –100 to 100 that measures

the willingness of customers to recommend a

company’s products or services to others

one-on-ones face-to-face meetings between two people

regional leader see area leader

regional manager see area leader

sales figures the value or amount of the total sales of products

for a particular period

staff engagement surveys surveys designed to measure and assess how

motivated and engaged employees are to

perform their best at work each day

‘stagnating’ area leaders a category of area leaders who provide their store

managers and staff with low levels of support and

have low expectations for store/area results

state leader The employee who oversees and leads the area

leaders and whose region includes all the smaller

regions in a state. These leaders are responsible

for a range of activities, including staff education,

professional development, policy, advocacy,

communication, marketing, sponsorship, finance

and administration.

store manager the employee in a managerial role in a store,

who is responsible for staff and their wellbeing;

presentation of advertising and store displays;

recruitment, performance management and

workplace scheduling; and product management,

including ordering, receiving, and price changes

strategy a summary of how the organisation will achieve

its goals, meet the expectations of its customers

and sustain a competitive advantage in the

marketplace

support (provided by delivery to store managers of the tools and

area leaders) training they require to do their jobs and deliver

on expectations

working on business contrasting with working in business days, these

(WOB) days are days spent planning and reflecting (rather

than working in the field)

137

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

About the author

Alison Crabb, founder and principal of Alison Crabb Consulting, has

worked with some of Australia’s most recognised and successful retailers

for more than 30 years. Her career in the retail industry began as a travel

consultant with the Flight Centre Travel Group, where her promotion first

to store manager and then to an area leadership role was to eventually

see her spend eight years as a global leader in a highly competitive and

challenging retail environment.

Through these years of learning, development and improvement, Alison

continued to push the boundaries and drive improvement year on year,

seeing profit grow from $18 million to $49 million. The culture of excellence

Alison was instrumental in building at Flight Centre during her years of

leadership led to her division being the most profitable division globally

for eight consecutive years. She achieved unprecedented results working

with more than 1200 staff across more than 200 retail outlets, generating

$1.2 billion in sales annually.

Alison’s achievements were recognised when she was awarded Flight

Centre’s Directors’ Award for Global Outstanding Achievement in 2010. She

was also a finalist in the Telstra Businesswoman of the Year Award in 2012.

Since leaving Flight Centre to begin her own retail consulting business,

Alison has worked in a coaching and consultancy role with some of

Australia’s leading retail businesses, developing and lifting their leadership

to achieve new business heights. Throughout her career, Alison’s business

reputation has been built on knowledge, experience, trust and success.

Alison Crabb is recognised by many to be the industry’s leading expert

on retail leadership. In her consultancy role with Alison Crabb Consulting,

Alison has designed a unique, refreshing, personalised and highly

engaging, retail-centric approach to leadership training and development.

Her 30 years of experience in consumer led retail has provided her with

invaluable insights into the factors influencing retail success and the keys

to achieving and delivering them.

For more details, visit: www.alisoncrabb.com.au

or email Alison: alison@alisoncrabb.com.au

138

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb