SOURCE: Ebook The Essential Guide for Area Leaders in Retail - Alison Crabb.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Management Strategies
SUMMARY: The text discusses various strategies for effective retail leadership, including having productive meetings, developing business acumen, investing in people and locations, and developing future leaders.
KEYWORDS: retail management, leadership strategies, employee development, store operations
---

•

Have meetings that matter 103

Communication 103

Meetings that matter 106

Chapter 11

•

STR 6A TEGY

•

Develop your business acumen 113

Invest in all of your people 113

Invest in your locations 114

Value your shopfront 116

Allow your store managers autonomy to make

customer-focused decisions 117

Understaffing is more costly than overstaffing 118

Chapter 12

•

STR 7A TEGY

•

Develop your future leaders 123

The role of the assistant store manager 124

Chapter 13 Conclusion 129

Afterword: Work with me 133

Glossary 135

About the author 138

viii

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Preface

I had almost finished writing this book in December 2019, just before the

onset of the worldwide COVID-19 pandemic which represents possibly the

single biggest disaster many of us will experience in our lifetimes.

The pandemic has had an unprecedented impact on all of us – socially,

mentally and economically. Personally, within the space of one week, I went

from having my business calendar completely booked with leadership

workshops and coaching sessions to almost all of those bookings being

postponed or cancelled.

The only positive I could find was that this allowed me the time and space

to focus on finishing this book. There were times when I questioned the

timing of releasing it – not because I had stopped believing in the content,

but because I couldn’t predict if what I knew from experience and the

proven practical solutions I believed I could offer would even be heard by

their intended audience in light of the overwhelming circumstances with

which retailers would be dealing.

Naturally, due to the impact of COVID-19, the priority for every retailer is

to make business and management decisions that will enable them and

their businesses to navigate a way through these unprecedented times.

In supporting many of my retail clients during this crisis, helping them to

determine how best to lead their businesses and take care of their staff, I

realised that the strategies in this book are needed now more than ever.

In fact, it became a matter of urgency for me to finish writing the book

and get it into the marketplace of retail businesses and their leaders as

quickly as possible. Now, more than ever, there is a need for businesses to

reconnect, refocus and re-establish goals. Assisting with this became my

purpose and helped me to stay motivated and focused amid the business

chaos I was experiencing myself.

It is now my mission for this book that the strategies it contains will

positively impact retail businesses and their leaders, helping to provide

some positive direction now and during the economic recovery to come.

ix

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Acknowledgements

This book was written in a short timeframe, but I feel like the process of

writing it has brought together all my work of the last 30 years. Without the

support of many people this would never have been possible.

I would first like to thank my mum who dedicated her life to me, often

working two jobs to provide for me and ensuring she gave me the best

opportunities in life. She knew that this book was a work in progress but

passed away before she got to see it completed. My mum was always very

proud of me and would have been even prouder to have read these pages.

Throughout my career, more times than I can remember, my husband

Shane has held the fort at home while I have been working or travelling. I

know he thought I was mad to leave the safety and security of my corporate

career to embark on setting up my own leadership consultancy company

and venture into the unknown, but he has supported me and has been my

number-one cheer squad every step of the way.

My incredible boys, Aaron and Matty, have taught me more than they

will ever know. Although their observation of my displays of frustration

resulting from bad service or poor retailing have made me the brunt of

their jokes over many years, they are my world and mean everything to

me. I know there are times when I have embarrassed them, but I also hope

I have taught them that success cannot happen without great leadership

and commitment. They are two incredible humans that I am proud to call

my sons and are both forging their own paths in life. I know they will both

make a difference in the world in their own ways.

I joined Flight Centre at the most difficult time in my life. If it wasn’t for

Geoff Harris, I am not quite sure what direction my life would have taken.

He was the first person to ever truly believe in me and saw leadership

qualities in me that I didn’t see in myself. He has been my greatest role

model, in life and in my career, and has shown me what it takes to be a

true authentic leader.

My business manager Natalie McGee has been by my side helping to

grow my business since its inception and has the most amazing ‘Can do’

attitude. I thank her for keeping on top of everything, for looking after all

of our fabulous clients and for always exploring ways to do things better.

I need her to know that that none of it goes unnoticed or unappreciated.

x

Copyright © 2020 Alison Crabb

Acknowledgements

Scharlaine Cairns, my book editor and dear friend, has held my hand

throughout the process as I embarked on writing this, my first book. Her

patience and advice have been incredible and this book couldn’t have

happened without her support.

I sincerely thank Anthony Cowles, my ‘voice of reason’ and one of the

greatest area leaders I had the pleasure to lead, who read these pages

before they went to print. His constructive feedback was invaluable.

Some of the greatest times in my life have been spent with the area leaders