SOURCE: eCommera_ClickAndCollect_v1.0.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Omni-channel Retail Operations
SUMMARY: The text provides recommendations for improving click and collect service, focusing on stock allocation and order status notification.
KEYWORDS: click and collect, stock management, order fulfillment, customer experience, training
---

service review check-points. Avoid relying purely

on documentation to train staff. Provide live

training sessions on your new processes as well as

documentation to ensure that the information has

been understood and absorbed. Communicate to

staff the value of the service so they see the benefit

in being prepared to provide an excellent service.

Consider implementing a customer-feedback

programme in-store. This can allow you to monitor

the level of service and adjust training requirements

as you go.

wwwwww..eeccoommmmeerraa..ccoomm MMaakkiinngg mmoonneeyy aatt oommnnii--cchhaannnneell:: HHooww NNOOTT ttoo ddoo cclliicckk aanndd ccoolllleecctt || 77

How NOT to do click and collect

STOCK ALLOCATION

Don’t maintain a

Why not? What should you do?

channel-centric l Customers have to wait longer for their order: Invest in an order management system to give you

Without a single view of stock, click and collect a single view of stock. Many retailers in a rush to

orders are sent from the warehouse regardless implement omni-channel services have taken a

view of stock

of whether the item is in the selected store. This ‘Band-Aid’ approach to tying together their systems.

means customers have to wait on average 3-5

While this might provide an immediate workaround,

days to receive their order versus making the

it is not the right approach for long-term success.

order available from store stock in as little as 30

To provide an optimal click and collect experience,

minutes.

retailers need a real-time single view of stock –

l You are not best-utilising available stock across daily batch updates or approximation of stock

the network: Without a single view of stock there levels are simply not good enough.

is no option of using slow moving store stock

The Argos website – where customers can choose

to fulfil web orders, which typically means more

from reservation and immediate pick-up or home

stock goes to markdown than is necessary.

delivery options – highlights the strength this can

l Returns take too long to get back into the provide to a customer proposition.

network: With fragmented stock pools returns

take longer to get back into the network for resale.

Rather than putting them directly on the shop floor

for immediate resale, they need to be returned to

the warehouse and processed – all of which is

time the product is unavailable for resale.

wwwwww..eeccoommmmeerraa..ccoomm MMaakkiinngg mmoonneeyy aatt oommnnii--cchhaannnneell:: HHooww NNOOTT ttoo ddoo cclliicckk aanndd ccoolllleecctt || 88

How NOT to do click and collect

ORDER STATUS NOTIFICATION

Don’t forget to notify customers the order is in store

Why not? What should you do?

l You risk ‘losing’ the customer: With so many 1. H ave a clear set of automated delivery

options, you only need to provide one poor notifications for the customer

shopping experience to lose what could have

2. H ave a set of in-store instructions for staff

otherwise been a long-term, loyal customer.

to follow if item is not collected on first day,

l Uncollected orders are expensive: You have including contacting the customer directly

to notify the customer, cancel the order, prepare

If at all possible and where appropriate, ensure

a refund and then return the item to stock –

the item can be made available for sale in store,

which could involve shipping the item back to

to save return shipment costs. With a single

a warehouse (slowing stock turn as well as

view of stock, this item could be fulfilled from

carrying delivery costs).

the store to an online order – mitigating the

lost sale opportunity.

wwwwww..eeccoommmmeerraa..ccoomm MMaakkiinngg mmoonneeyy aatt oommnnii--cchhaannnneell:: HHooww NNOOTT ttoo ddoo cclliicckk aanndd ccoolllleecctt || 99

How NOT to do click and collect

TECHNOLOGY

Don’t maintain separate systems for each channel or develop

workarounds to integrate systems

Why not? What should you do?

Consider the following scenarios all of

l It will cost more money in the long- which are a result of disparate systems: Make the right investment for the long term. Ideally, you want to be in a situation

run: With workarounds you will be where you have all of your systems integrated. That can mean replacing some of

l A customer buys an order online and

investing in development time to get those systems or investing in a new system that will tie them all together.

returns it to the store. On return they

your systems functioning in the way

are not refunded as the POS is separate The first step in any technology evaluation process is to define your services

that you need. Each change or new

from the online payments system. The roadmap. What do you plan to offer to your customers along what timeline? With this

feature will require further investment

customer has to wait for a refund. defined you’ll need to do a technology audit. Do your current systems stack up? Will

in development.

they get you where you need to be or do you need to start evaluating other options?

l It will provide a sub-optimal l A customer is due to come in and to

Consider the following questions:

customer experience: Remember pick up their click and collect order; an

that customers are unaware of upsell opportunity is lost as the shop l Am I happy with each of the elements in my technology stack? For example,

channels and have no patience for assistant is unable to suggest other is your eCommerce platform delivering good value or could you benefit from a

poor experiences that are the result relevant items for purchase as they more robust system? Identify the elements which are due for replacement. If the

of system disconnects. have no access to customer purchase list is small, you may want to investigate options to integrate all of your systems

history information. using an order management system or a middleware layer.

l You won’t be able to keep pace

with the changing expectations of l A customer inquires in store as to the l How much time are you spending as a trading team focused on technology?