SOURCE: eCommera_ClickAndCollect_v1.0.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Omni-channel Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the benefits and challenges of implementing a click and collect service, and provides guidance on how not to do it.
KEYWORDS: click and collect, omni-channel retail, fulfillment strategy, store operations, customer experience
---

Making money at omni-channel

How NOT to do

click and collect

www.ecommera.com

More than 50% of UK And how many are making a financial loss on every

order? In this article, part of our ‘Making money at

retailers have implemented omni-channel’ series, we will explore:

l T he benefits of offering click and collect from both

click and collect in some

the consumer and retailer’s perspective

l What NOT to do when it comes to:

form, but how many of them

l Programme design

are offering an optimal

l Staff incentive & recognition

experience? l Staff training

l Stock allocation

l Order status notification

l Technology

l KPIs

wwwwww..eeccoommmmeerraa..ccoomm MMaakkiinngg mmoonneeyy aatt oommnnii--cchhaannnneell:: HHooww NNOOTT ttoo ddoo cclliicckk aanndd ccoolllleecctt || 22

Click and collect, or buy and collect, is when a customer

completes a transaction using the online channel and then travels

to the store to pick up the item. Delivery times can range from

2 hours to 7+ days.

Why customers love it Why retailers love it

l Ability to pick up order at their convenience l Savings on delivery costs

rather than receiving that horrible post

l Ability to generate additional store traffic

office ‘failed delivery’ slip

l Opportunity to upsell customers (although

l Certainty that the desired product is in the

most often under-utilised)

store; countering frustration of visiting to

find THAT dress, only to find it not in stock l Improved shopping experience by offering

in your size customers greater choice/flexibility

l Faster compared to home delivery (in some l Ability to fulfil demand by ensuring stock

cases) is in place for the customer

l Reduced or eliminated delivery costs (in

some cases)

l Option of browsing while in store

l Option, although not always facilitated,

of trying product while in store and then

making an immediate return.

wwwwww..eeccoommmmeerraa..ccoomm MMaakkiinngg mmoonneeyy aatt oommnnii--cchhaannnneell:: HHooww NNOOTT ttoo ddoo cclliicckk aanndd ccoolllleecctt || 33

With all the benefits of click and

collect there seems to be no

reason not to do it. Yet, the reality

is that mastering click and collect

requires a strategic approach

that evaluates all elements, from

training and what locations

to offer the services from, to

staff incentive programmes In this article, we will

tell you how NOT to do

and technology.

click and collect.

wwwwww..eeccoommmmeerraa..ccoomm MMaakkiinngg mmoonneeyy aatt oommnnii--cchhaannnneell:: HHooww NNOOTT ttoo ddoo cclliicckk aanndd ccoolllleecctt || 44

How NOT to do click and collect

PROGRAMME DESIGN

Don’t automatically Why not? What should you do?

l Some of your stores may be too small to offer a good You should create a store suitability matrix when

roll out click click and collect experience: Smaller stores may assessing which locations are appropriate for click

not be able to accommodate the service; consider and collect. Consider:

elements like space for signage as well as space for

and collect to l Minimum store size

potential customers. Consider how you will handle this

at peak demand in the third week of December. l Minimum stock room size

every store l Y our stock room might be too small: Store rooms l Current footfall ratio to POS

under a certain size will impact the efficiency of

l Existing ‘check-out’ wait times at peak

a click and collect service as well as negatively

impacting on the regular running of the store. If there l The expected increase in footfall per store

is limited space, consider how many parcels can be

l Current footfall ratio to staff per store

held at any one time and how they impact regular

inventory stores. It is also important to consider how l Current promotional/signage space per store

long customer orders should be held for as customers

l The impact of sharing promotional/signage space

do not always pick up their orders on time.

with click and collect signage

l You risk negatively impacting on the in-store

l Number and proximity of stores

experience for all customers: If click and collect

orders are serviced from the same counter as other Once you launch the service, keep a close watch on

orders you risk increasing wait times for all customers. the results. We recommend surveying both customers

and store staff 6 to 8 weeks post-launch and working

l Y ou may not need to offer the service in every store:

towards continuous improvement.

When evaluating which stores to offer the service in,

consider the typical shopping intent of customers in

each. Customers are likely to have different intent, for

example, in your store next to Liverpool Street Station

versus your store in Westfield Stratford City.

wwwwww..eeccoommmmeerraa..ccoomm MMaakkiinngg mmoonneeyy aatt oommnnii--cchhaannnneell:: HHooww NNOOTT ttoo ddoo cclliicckk aanndd ccoolllleecctt || 55

How NOT to do click and collect

STAFF INCENTIVE & RECOGNITION

Don’t give 100% recognition

Why not?

for click and collect orders to l You risk providing a poor service experience

for click and collect customers: If store staff do

not receive some recognition for online orders

the online store

they may perceive dealing with them as an

inconvenience.

What should you do?

Review your current KPIs and adapt them to

reflect the way in which customers shop now

– which is across channels. Make sure that

changes are communicated well throughout

the organisation.

wwwwww..eeccoommmmeerraa..ccoomm MMaakkiinngg mmoonneeyy aatt oommnnii--cchhaannnneell:: HHooww NNOOTT ttoo ddoo cclliicckk aanndd ccoolllleecctt || 66

How NOT to do click and collect

STAFF TRAINING

Don’t underestimate training requirements

Why not?

l You risk providing a sub-optimal experience for all

customers: Already challenged by issues with high

staff turnover, adding additional training requirements

for in-store staff can be a challenge. Accommodating

click and collect orders will require new processes

and in many cases new technologies.

What should you do?

Design a multi-faceted training programme with

service review check-points. Avoid relying purely

on documentation to train staff. Provide live

training sessions on your new processes as well as

documentation to ensure that the information has

been understood and absorbed. Communicate to

staff the value of the service so they see the benefit