SOURCE: eCommera_ClickAndCollect_v1.0.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Omni-channel Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of implementing an effective click-and-collect system, including the need to integrate systems, measure the right KPIs, and focus on the customer experience.
KEYWORDS: click-and-collect, omni-channel, KPIs, customer experience
---

history information. using an order management system or a middleware layer.

l You won’t be able to keep pace

with the changing expectations of l A customer inquires in store as to the l How much time are you spending as a trading team focused on technology?

consumers: Retail is changing fast status of an online order and the shop Ideally, as a retailer you want to focus your time and effort on retail, rather than

with new innovations emerging on a assistant is unable to provide any worrying about technology. If you’re not already doing this, you may want to

near-daily basis. With a system that is information. consider SaaS-based technologies like Demandware or a managed service.

not purpose-built for this environment,

l Are you getting a good return on investment in your current technologies?

you will struggle to adapt and add l A customer fails to receive notification

If you don’t know the answer, try to find out. You may be surprised to learn that

new features/services and are at that their click and collect order is ready

the actual cost and time of changing a system is less than the cost of running

risk of playing an expensive game because the systems are disconnected.

inefficient and outdated systems.

of constant catch up.

wwwwww..eeccoommmmeerraa..ccoomm MMaakkiinngg mmoonneeyy aatt oommnnii--cchhaannnneell:: HHooww NNOOTT ttoo ddoo cclliicckk aanndd ccoolllleecctt || 1100

How NOT to do click and collect

KPIs

Don’t measure the wrong things

Why not? What should you do?

l You’ll risk declaring the success of a Try and tie the KPIs back to those which you can

programme that is losing you customers directly influence, and which tie back to three

and money: Avoid focusing solely on outputs, core KPIs:

for example, the number of click and collect 1. R etained revenue: From a customer’s first

orders in a store, or the percentage of sales purchase, how much is retained over time

which are click and collect. Ultimately, (repeat spend)

benchmarks and targets are valuable, but vary

2. O perational satisfaction from shipment and

significantly for legitimate reasons, and an

delivery on customer promise

absolute focus on a target revenue number

3. S ale at full price through gross margin return

will miss the concept of optimisation.

on capital

Therefore, think about:

1. P ick up rate of click and collect orders

2. Percentage of click and collect orders which are

ready to be shipped on time to meet promise

3. T he average delivery time for a click and collect

order to when the customer is notified it is ready

for collection

4. P ercentage of click and collect orders which

drive an additional sale in-store

5. P ercentage of click and collect orders

rejected by store

wwwwww..eeccoommmmeerraa..ccoomm MMaakkiinngg mmoonneeyy aatt oommnnii--cchhaannnneell:: HHooww NNOOTT ttoo ddoo cclliicckk aanndd ccoolllleecctt || 1111

The diagram below illustrates the customer experience when click and collect is not

Not convinced? well implemented. And in this case, everything that could go wrong, does.

2

3

1

5 days later, Sally hasn’t heard

anything about her order. The call Sally contacts the store, but no 4 Sally goes into the store,

centre is unable to tell her where one answers the phone now rather irate, in hopes

it is they do have the item

Shopping online, Sally decides to l Programme issue. With a high

use click and collect – but she l Technology issue: With volume of click and collect Sally arrives at the store; she

finds the service takes 3-5 days. disconnected systems, the call orders during peak store times, doesn’t know who to ask

Disappointed, Sally places an centre is unable to identify the staff are too busy to answer about her order

order anyway precise location of the order the phone l Programme issue:

l S tock issue: With a single view l Training issue: The manual Inadequate signage for

process for order collection click and collect

of stock, Sally would know

notification has broken down

which stores had stock

due to inadequate training

5

The manager insists that Sally

should have the order number

Sally gets into a long queue and is

Eventually, Sally is asked for l I ncentive issue: The manager

further annoyed at having to wait

her order number, but she is not incentivised to help

forgot it. The shop assistant l Programme issue: There are an Sally because click and collect

6

doesn’t know how to find inadequate number of staff to deal orders are not attributed to

the order with the increased store footfall the store, but to the online

l Training issue: Staff are not channel

properly trained to find click

and collect orders

7

wwwwww..eeccoommmmeerraa..ccoomm MMaakkiinngg mmoonneeyy aatt oommnnii--cchhaannnneell:: HHooww NNOOTT ttoo ddoo cclliicckk aanndd ccoolllleecctt || 1122

10

Sally gets the item home but doesn’t A few days later the item is sent

like it. She goes back to the store and back to the warehouse and

Finally receiving her package, Sally leaves waits in the queue (again) taken back into stock. Another

the store After waiting for another 10 minutes online customer is unable to

l Technology issue: the opportunity to in the queue Sally ’returns’ the item buy that product as the website

upsell Sally when she came to collect and is given a slip promising her a showed no stock – despite the

her order has been missed. If the store refund in 14 days item being available.

had purchase history on Sally, they 9 l Technology issue: The store is l Technology issue: With a

could have had complementary items unable to immediately refund the single view of stock, the item

ready to show her. online order as the online/in-store could have be resold in-store

systems are not connected or made available through the

online channel. In this case

the result was a lost sale and

a disappointed customer.

The shop assistant struggles to find the

11

parcel in the small store room, which is