SOURCE: eCommera_ClickAndCollect_v1.0.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Click and Collect Operations
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges faced in implementing an effective click and collect program, including inadequate monitoring, staffing issues, and customer experience problems.
KEYWORDS: click and collect, customer experience, operations, staffing, monitoring
---

systems are not connected or made available through the

online channel. In this case

the result was a lost sale and

a disappointed customer.

The shop assistant struggles to find the

11

parcel in the small store room, which is

wall to wall boxes, and takes a long time

to return.

Sally has now been at the counter for

10 minutes, another annoyed customer

puts their items down and leaves the

store without making a purchase The retail director

Click and collect:

l Programme issue: Inadequate monitoring the number of

staffing levels have resulted in a poor click and collect orders per

customer experience and a lost sale store, reports the success it’s easy NOT to do it well.

of the programme back to

the board. Difficult to do it right.

8

wwwwww..eeccoommmmeerraa..ccoomm MMaakkiinngg mmoonneeyy aatt oommnnii--cchhaannnneell:: HHooww NNOOTT ttoo ddoo cclliicckk aanndd ccoolllleecctt || 1133

Opportunity evaluation Cost assessment

Calculating ROI

for click and

Consider Consider

Service reach Changes to processes and operations

collect

The potential number of customers l Cost to set up delivery notification for click and

who will use service collect

Intensity l Cost to run delivery notification (on-going)

How often will the service be used? l Handling of declines, cancellations

Locations l Training investment (initial)

Number of stores where the service l Training cost (on-going)

will be applicable

l Training documentation

IT

4%

l Cost of additional resources to in-house

development team (if applicable)

2.5%

l Cost of out-sourced managed service (if

applicable)

1%

l Cost of additional software/hardware

100 -

installation/set-up

-0.5% l Cost of running additional software/hardware

75 -

For help in preparing an Store investment

exhaustive ROI calculator for l Signage design costs

50 - click and collect please contact

l Signage cost per store

our retail services experts.

l Cost of in-store hardware, including tablets,

25 - Richard Price computers

+44 203 530 5813 l Cost to modify storage area

0 - mth 12 mth 18 mth 24 Richard.price@ecommera.com l Cost to create dedicated counter (if applicable)

mth 6

wwwwww..eeccoommmmeerraa..ccoomm MMaakkiinngg mmoonneeyy aatt oommnnii--cchhaannnneell:: HHooww NNOOTT ttoo ddoo cclliicckk aanndd ccoolllleecctt || 1144

We can help you ensure your click and collect programme

is optimised to make every customer experience a good

one and every click and collect order a profitable one.

Our omni-channel consulting module includes:

Omni-channel roadmap Technology implementation

We help you understand market and category Our team of technical experts will work with you

specific nuances so you can develop a relevant to deploy new technology, ensuring full integration

omni-channel proposition for each of the regions with existing systems to deliver a consistent

in which you operate. cross-channel experience.

Process design & implementation Training

We help ensure you have robust processes in As well as providing documentation, we work

place to deliver great omni-channel experiences with your store and call centre staff to ensure

– whether you’re implementing click and collect, they are fully trained on new processes and

ship from store or cross-channel returns. technologies.

Technology review & selection Review & refinement

We work with you to convert your roadmap into a We will specify KPIs for you to track the success

set of business requirements which can be used of different omni-channel initiatives and work

to review and then select required technology to with you to improve results over time.

support your omni-channel vision.

www.ecommera.com Making money at omni-channel: How NOT to do click and collect | 15

If you already offer click and collect, we can run an audit of your current

set-up, including a review of the customer experience. The audit will

Contact us today.

include a prioritised list of recommendations for improvement. If you’re

considering implementing click and collect, we can help you design a Richard Price +44 203 530 5813

programme that delivers an optimised shopping experience. Richard.price@ecommera.com

eCommera London eCommera Pune eCommera Sofia eCommera New York

79 Wells Street, 1st floor, Vascon Almonte IT Park, 49B Bulgaria blvd., 3rd floor, 125 Park Avenue, 25th floor,

London W1T 3QN Pune 411014 Sofia 1404 New York 10017

United Kingdom India Bulgaria USA

+44 (0)20 3530 (5800) +91 (020) 3056-8400 +359 (0)2 903 (6000) +1 (212) 221 1724

www.ecommera.com