SOURCE: Effectively Influencing Decision Makers - 09-05-12.doc
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Ethical Business Practices
SUMMARY: The text discusses ways to effectively challenge and influence decision makers while maintaining corporate ethics and integrity.
KEYWORDS: corporate ethics, integrity, challenging up, decision making, business communication
---

By getting ready for a realistic discussion of costs, you can “prepare for objections” to your idea before they occur.  You can acknowledge the sacrifice that someone else may have to make and point out how the benefits of your plan may outweigh the costs.

“Challenge up” on issues involving ethics or integrity – never remain silent on ethics violations.

Enron, WorldCom, and other organizations have dramatically pointed out how ethics violations can destroy even the most valuable companies.  The best of corporations can be severely damaged by only one violation of corporate integrity.  Hopefully, you will never be asked to do anything by the management of your corporation that represents a violation of corporate ethics.  If you are, refuse to do it and immediately let upper management know of your concerns.  This action needs to be taken for the ultimate benefit of your company, your customers, your co-workers and yourself.

When challenging up try not to assume that management has intentionally requested you to do something wrong.  In some cases, a seemingly inappropriate request may merely be the result of a misunderstandings or poor communication.  Try to present your case in a manner that is intended to be helpful, not judgmental.

Realize that powerful people are just as “human” as you are – don’t say, “I am amazed that someone at this level…”

It is realistic to expect decision makers to be competent; it is unrealistic to expect them to be anything other than normal humans.  Is there anything in the history of the human species that indicates when people achieve high levels of status, power, and money they become completely “wise” and “logical”?  How many times have we thought, “I would assume someone at this level…” followed by “should know what is happening”, “should be more logical”, “wouldn’t make that kind of mistake”, or “would never engage in such inappropriate behavior”?

Even the best of leaders are human.  We all make mistakes.  When your managers make mistakes, focus more on helping them than judging them.

Treat decision makers with the same courtesy that you would treat customers - don’t be disrespectful.

While it is important to avoid “kissing up” to decision makers, it is just as important to avoid the opposite reaction.  A surprising number of middle managers spend hours “trashing” the company and its executives or making destructive comments about other co-workers.  When reviewing summary 360° feedback on leaders, the item, “avoids destructive comments about the company or co-workers” regularly scores in the “bottom ten” on co-workers satisfaction with peers.

Before speaking it is generally good to ask four questions:

Will this comment help our company?

Will this comment help our customers?

Will this comment help the person that I am talking to?

Will this comment help the person that I am talking about?

If the answers are no, no, no, and no – don’t say it!  There is a big difference between total honesty and dysfunctional disclosure.  As we discussed earlier, it is always important to “challenge up” on integrity issues.  It is inappropriate to stab decision makers in the back.

Support the final decision of the organization – don’t say, “They made me tell you” to direct reports.

Assuming that the final decision of the organization is not immoral, illegal, or unethical – go out and try to make it work!  Managers who consistently say, “They told me to tell you” to co-workers are seen as “messengers” not leaders.  Even worse, don’t say, “those fools told me to tell you”.  By demonstrating our lack of commitment to the final decision we may sabotage the chances for effective execution.

A simple guideline for communicating difficult decisions is to ask, “How would I want someone to communicate to their people if they were passing down my final decision and they disagreed with me?”  Treat decisions makers in the same way that you would want to be treated if the roles were reversed.  For example, if you stab your boss in the back in front of your direct reports, what are you teaching your direct reports to do when they disagree with you?

Make a positive difference – don’t just try to “win” or “be right”.

We can easily become more focused on what others are doing wrong, than how we can make things better.  An important guideline in influencing up is to always remember your goal – make a positive difference for the organizations.

Corporations are different than academic institutions.  In an academic institution, the goal may be just sharing diverse ideas, without a need to impact the bottom line.  Hours of acrimonious debate can be perfectly acceptable. In a corporation, sharing ideas without having an impact is worse than useless.  It is a waste of the stockholders money and a distraction from serving customers.

When I was interviewed in the Harvard Business Review, I was asked, “What is the most common ‘area for improvement’ for the executives that you meet?  My answer was “winning too much”.  Focus on making a difference.  The more other people can “be right” or “win” with your idea, the more likely your idea is to be successfully executed.

Focus on the future – “let go” of the past.

One of the most important behaviors to avoid is “whining” about the past.  Have you ever managed someone who incessantly whined about how bad things are?  When people consistently whine, they inhibit any change they may have for impacting the future.  Their managers tend to view them as annoying.  Their direct reports view them as inept.  Nobody wins.