SOURCE: Eight Words To Live By.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Ethics and Conduct
SUMMARY: The article discusses eight key principles, including manners, integrity, kindness, and honor, that will separate true pioneers of the new economy from pretenders.
KEYWORDS: business ethics, professional conduct, new economy, corporate values
---

a

By ROSEMARY HERCEG a

Eight words to live by

hen Richard Branson landed

in Sydney last month to shake

up the local airline industry,

something strange happened:

good manners in high-stakes

business. It was nice to see.

The thing about unprecedented change -~ where

Internet start-ups make more money in a day than

“ald” companies used to make in a year — is that

the few things that should not change somehow

seem to be the first to change.

Real change is the rule rather than the

exception in business today. Companies that do

not change lose. Anyone who does not believe

this should remember two words: Encyclopaedia

Britannica.

There are many topics to cover in an article

about change: intangible assets, soft finance,

true finance, circuit riders, free agents, electronic

data systems, channels to market, intellectual

yields, economic value added, bandwidth glut,

aggregators, prophet. These words and phrases

are all part of a new lexicon and each of them

signifies great change.

In a magazine dedicated to looking forward,

we have decided to look forward to the eight

things that will separate the true pioneers of the

new economy from the great pretenders,

1. MANNERS

As the film character Jerry Maguire says,

“There is such a thing as manners.” In the new

economy, manners will separate the real success

stories from the rest. It

is strange how rarely

manners are displayed

in business. It is

always refreshing to

see good manners in

business. It is not a

device to win favor or business — it is simply

good form. In the new economy, the more

common urban business myths will be about

good manners rather than today's more common

stories of arrogance and conceit. In the 21st

century, nice guys will finish first.

2. INTEGRITY

The Macquarie Dictionary says integrity means

“soundness of moral principle and character”.

Stuck for the answer to that million-dollar

question in the most important meeting of your

life? Then say so. Your audience will respect you

more than you will ever imagine. Once we were in

We can only hope

leaders will remember that fortunes

come and go, but good reputations

take a long time to create.

December 17, 1999 BRW.

EA

nd TIM FLATTERY

a meeting — in a pitch situation — when the

chief executive of a Fortune 500 company

asked a big question of the presenter. The

presenter answered that he did not have a clue

and the chief executive said: “You just got the

account.”

3. KINDNESS

Being kind is not a weakness in business. Ever

felt how wonderful it is when you are struggling

to get your laptop working on some faulty PC

projector and somebody in the meeting actually

helps you fix it? You want to hug the person out

of relief and gratitude. Kindness is remembered

long after the business gets done.

4. HONOR

Dictionary definition: “Reputation for behavior

that is becoming or worthy”. It may sound a

little old-fashioned, but in the new world,

honor will go a long way in business. Although

contracts are a necessity in the intellectual

property future, ensuring that your word means

something will become a very attractive

commodity in business. Importantly, it is still

appealing to the real movers and shakers, who

sometimes still manage to make big business

decisions on a handshake — then leave it to the

lawyers to get it down on paper. Growing in the

21st century will be all about strong alliances

and mutual strength. No one can afford to go it

alone and carry all the risks exclusively. Smart

business is all about sharing risk — 20th

century competition

is all but dead.

Honorable business in

an age of the golden

alliance is smart

business too.

the new business

5. SELF-RESPECT

In business, self-respect is the only thing that

no one can take away from you. You can lose

your company, you can lose your job, you can

lose the business account — you can even

think you are losing your mind — but you can

always draw the line when it comes to self-

respect. The potential client is asking you to

do a big job on the vapor of maybe giving you

more work? The answer has to be no. That is

called business abuse and the minute

somebody thinks they can push you around,

they will never respect you — and you will

never forge any fair agreements with them.

THE PHOTO U2 PARTISYONEY/PAUL COZZOUNO

6. RELATIONSHIP

It is the most bandied-about word in business.

It has also been stolen by the marketing world.

In the 21st century, relationship means

connections between people that have taken

years, sometimes decades, to forge. It has

nothing to do with databases, with customers,

or with marketers. lt is a private thing between

people who share history, loyalty and friendship.

Do not mistake the business relationship you

have with your client with the relationship you

have with your husband or wife or kid sister.

#17, 1999

121

Forcing a relationship on to a business colleague

is embarrassing. Just let it grow naturally.

7. HUMOR

Business is funny. A bunch of people in suits

turn up, all looking serious, to discuss an

important distribution strategy for dog food. The

only important stuff in life is health and

happiness. The rest just fills in the gaps.

Everyone who is alive in business recognises and

appreciates good humor. Sometimes things do

not work out. Good ideas do not always make

Mirae Lt

UM HES

ee

Hie hit)

good reality. Bad things happen. Pioneers always

seem to know when to laugh and call it a day.

The one indisputable truth about business is

that tomorrow is a new day.

8. COURAGE

There are times when all the evidence in the

world cannot make that decision for you and all

you have is your intuition and instinct. This is

when courage plays a huge role. True pioneers

have courage in truckloads. When you are