SOURCE: Execution_The Missing Link in Retail Ops.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Inventory Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses challenges in retail operations, including misplaced inventory, employee turnover, and the impact of store manager departures on inventory execution.
KEYWORDS: inventory management, retail operations, employee turnover, store management, assortment planning
---

C

misplaced, or identify items that are in the backroom but should be on the sell-

ing floor, when there are more SKUs in a store. In a bookstore, for instance,

associates find it extremely hard to identify titles that are missing from the sales

floor and available in the backroom as assortment increases. As another exam-

ple, one bread manufacturer described the problem of “lost facings” that his firm

encountered twhen dealing with supermarkets that rely on manual reordering at

stores. Increasing bread assortment led to associates simply forgetting to reorder

o

some bread SKUs for a few days, which eventually led to the item being dropped

from the store’s assortment entirely.

NAdditional inventory leads to more crowded stores, and hence, makes it

harder to keep track of the number of units available. It is easy to count inven-

tory if few units are available per SKU but hard to do so accurately when each

SKU has many units. Moreover, additional inventory also leads to multiple loca-

tions for the same item, which also leads to greater difficulty in counting and

ensuring that items are not missing from the sales floor.

o

Employee Turnover

At Beta Corporation, two aspects of employee turnover were associated

D

with the number of items that were found in the store but not on the selling

floor.

Stores with higher turnover of floor employees had more items that

were not on the floor. This is not surprising because, at Beta, floor employees

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 145

This document is authorized for use only by JOHN STRONG until April 2012. Copying or posting is an infringement

of copyright. Permissions@hbsp.harvard.edu or 617.783.7860.

Raman CMR204.qxd 8/16/01 9:21 AM Page 146

t

s

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

o

are typically responsible for re-shelving merchandise from the storage area to

P

the selling floor. New floor employees understandably are less familiar with the

stores’ products and replenishment processes and probably make more errors in

transferring items from the storage to the selling area. Moreover, as explained

earlier, the inventory in the storage area is neither carefully mo nitored nor orga-

nized at Beta Corporation, as is true at many other retail stores. These stores rely

r

on the employee doing replenishment to know if an item, which has sold out on

the selling floor, is available in one of the storage areas. Newer employees are

o

less likely to have this knowledge and hence could contribute to more items

being in the storage area and not on the floor.

A second observation: stores where the store manager had either resigned

or was fired during the year prior to the store audit had a higher percentage of

misplaced items, an understandable phenomeynon because a store manager’s

departure could be disruptive to various operations at the store.

p

Improving Retail Execution

Enlightened retailers, sucho as Beta and Gamma, are moving to improve

execution in their operations. In fact, both Beta and Gamma have launched

substantial initiatives with participation at the most senior levels in the organi-

zation. The executives in Ccharge of stores and merchandising are personally

involved in the projects; the CEO or Chairman is typically kept abreast of

progress being made. There are three ways in which execution can be improved:

through creating awareness of the problem and its impact; through counting and

inspection; and b y benchmarking performance withinthe retail chain to under-

stand the drivers of poor execution and to allow poorer performers to learn from

t

their better performing counterparts. These potential solutions and the drivers of

poor execoution identified in the previous section are summarized in Table 1.

Quite clearly, the execution problems described here are similar to the

problems described and addressed in quality management. Not surprisingly, our

preNscriptions are similar to and share some characteristics with the solutions

identified to improve quality in manufacturing. Similar to the observations by

Deming, by Juran, and by Crosby, there is no single “magic bullet” or easy

“quick fix” to overcome the problems in retail execution.4However, execution

performance, just like manufacturing quality, can be improved.

o

Create Awareness of the Problem and

Its Impact on the Firm’s Performance

Many employees in retail companies are unaware of the extent and mag-

D

nitude of these execution problems in their chains, even if they are in functions

like Merchandising and Replenishment that rely on such data. Although both

Gamma and Beta are among the relatively few retailers that actually track

inventory quantity at the SKU level and location within the store during their

146 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

This document is authorized for use only by JOHN STRONG until April 2012. Copying or posting is an infringement

of copyright. Permissions@hbsp.harvard.edu or 617.783.7860.

Raman CMR204.qxd 8/16/01 9:21 AM Page 147

t

s

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

o

TABLE 1. Drivers of and Potential Solutions for Execution Problems

P

Driver of

Execution

Problems Examples Potential Solut ions

Store and DC • Errors in scanning at checkout • Create awarerness of execution problems

Replenishment and associated costs among store and DC

• Items not moved from storage to shelf

Processes

at appropriate time

employeoes.

• Inspect (via audits and sampling) accuracy

• Wrong item picked in DC

of inventory records and location of SKUs

• Shipments from DC not verified at store in stores.

• Alter processes based on employee and

customer feedback and inspection results.

y

Merchandising • Greater variety in assortment leads to • Create awareness among merchants and

and Inventory more confusion (e.g.harder to identify inventory planners.

p

Management merchandise that has been sold and is

• Benchmark performance at different

available in storage).Easier for checkout

stores to identify how merchandising and

counter clerk or picker in DC to get two

inventory management affect execution

very similar items confused.

o performance.

• Additional inventory leads to more

crowding in stores.Harder to keep track

of items.

C