SOURCE: Execution - The Missing Link In Retail Operations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Operations Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of inventory management and store processes that can lead to inconsistent performance and inaccuracies in retail operations.
KEYWORDS: inventory accuracy, misplaced SKUs, store processes, backroom design, retail operations
---

Thie daniuimant ie aitharizad far ian ants hy IAUM STRANI nil Ansil O04 Canuing ar ancting ie an infvinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

FIGURE 3. Consistent Performance in Inventory Accuracy Among Stores in Two >

Consecutive Years .

8.00 }

7.00

Absolute Error (1999)

' ' ‘ + ‘

2.00 3.00 4.00 5.00 6.00 7.00 8.00 9.00

Absolute Error (1998)

FIGURE 4. Consistent Performance in Misplaced SKUs Among Stores in Two Consecutive Years

S 12.00%

&

5 10.00%

&

Le

& 8.00%

°

8

; Zz 6.00%

w“

Z 400%

% 400%

2

°o

e 2.00%

. 8

»

& 0.00%

va

0.00% 2.00% 4.00% 6.00% 8.00% 10.00% 12.00%

Fraction of SKUs Not on Floor (1999)

142 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL. 43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

This daniiminnt ie autharignd far ion ankr hu IQUM CTDANG until Anril N49 Canuinn nv nneting ia an infrinnnmant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

“system inventory level” and “physical inventory level.” In the above exampley

system inventory would exceed physical inventory by one unit for plain_yog

and would be a unit short for lemon yogurt. Similarly, many of us have Cy 4

enced situations where, after buying a “large” garment, we returng “to the store deat

to exchange the “large” for a “medium.” It is not unusual in this é n

for salespeople to exchange the garments without entering either transaction

(i.e., the return of one item and the sale of another). Clearly, in this case thi

system would underestimate physical inventory for large and ove restimate

inventory for medium garments. a)

Store processes also cause the “misplaced SKUs” problem. Store sales

people are often charged with moving merchandise fr off the stOrage areas to

the sales floor based on sales of specific items. The task ‘though | it appears to be

simple, is rendered complex by a number of factors. One, BoreSalespeople, who

often are very busy during high-traffic periods, find it hard to replenish mer-

chandise promptly from the storage areas. Two, Ms stores do not organize the

inventory in their storage areas very well. Cons: ie) tly, sales people may not

know if merchandise that has stocked oubimth the area is even available in

the storage areas. Moreover, computerized inf nation systems that track the

inventory at the stores often do not maintain separate fields to identify storage

area inventory. The fact that storage-areaStare,often dispersed over multiple loca-

tions and “SKUs not on floor” cgitld be any. these locations exacerbates the

problem. For example, a at some Stores, there are Storage areas above the shelves,

Rof Magy" near the loading dock, and merchan-

eas are n@irac ed separately.

Store design—egpecially th esign, size, and number of backrooms and

other storage areas per execution. The importance of backroom

size, for example, can be illustrated with an anecdote from Beta Corporation.

While store es was largely consistent from one year to the next, there

were some an s. One store, for example, saw substantial deterioration in

performan m T998)to 1999, The President of Stores at Beta was not sur-

prised at "He POinted out that, after repeated requests, he had allowed the

store to i crease the capacity of its backroom at the end of 1998. Not surpris-

Nas ard mi,proponents of JIT* would have predicted, the backroom had

ory after the expansion than it had before and the store suffered

larger fraction of SKUs not available on the floor than it had in

owever, store processes only explain part of the problem. Gamma, for

example, found that DC processes had much to do with inventory record inac-

Q curacy. In early 1999, Gamma tried an experiment at one of its new stores.

he company planned to open a store on a particular date and the distribution

lepartment was asked to stock merchandise in preparation for this opening.

Unknown to the distribution department, however, the company postponed the

opening of the store and, instead, audited every item at the store before a single

y |

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL 43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 143

Thin dann nt ie autharicad far ian anhs bu IAUR CTDARNIA until Anvil 2949 Canina ar nnctina in an infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

FIGURE 5. Average Store "Absolute Errors" Grouped by Distribution Center

8.00

7.00

6.00

5.00

4.00

Absolute Error (units)

customer had ever walked. thessiore. A r

curate for 29% of thesitems and the avérage absolute error was 25% of system

1OCesses is also supported by Figure 5, which

shows the average error in inventory records at stores served by each of three

: served, even though it is possible that the differences

mmed from regional differences in store management and

DC served stores in a certain geographic region). Gamma

d out that, unlike the other two DCs, DC 1 had had stable man-

: its inception. Over time, the management team at DCI had estab-

Interestingly, merchandise received at the stores directly from the vendor

end to have much more accurate records than those shipped from even the best

C. Gamma managers believed that the superior performance obtained on ven-

dor-direct items could be traced to two factors. First, store managers are more

careful in checking shipments received directly from vendors for accuracy, partly

] to ensure that invoices are accurate. Expecting this, vendors probably are more

144 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL. 43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

Thin danumant ie auithariznd far ies anhs hu IALIA CTOANA tintil Anril 249 Onnuing ar na. in an infrinnamant

#

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

careful than DCs, who at times can be somewhat sloppy in verifying accuracy

Furthermore, Gamma Corporation, in an attempt to save on ai tor mill com- AN

contributed to the increased likelihood of store managers checking _ lor ship-

ments. Second, vendor-direct shipments tend to be smaller overall and oftem

contained fewer items. Consequently, they could be checked mi@re easily.

Merchandising and Inventory Management

Greater variety and more store inventory lead t uy