SOURCE: Execution - The Missing Link In Retail Operations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Operations Analysis
SUMMARY: The authors use regression models to analyze the drivers of inventory record inaccuracy and misplaced SKUs in retail operations.
KEYWORDS: inventory record accuracy, misplaced SKUs, retail operations, regression analysis, store-level factors
---

ables. We use three regression models to derive our results, two applied to

Gamma data (for inveritory record imageuracy) and one applied to Beta (for mis-

placed SKUs). More details of ourtechnical analysis can be found in DeHoratius

and Raman"? and in Raman and Ton."

We estimate thé drivers of inventory record inaccuracy at the record level

and at the store level. For our record level analysis, we use logistic regression to

predict the pft@bability of inventory record accuracy as a function of the cost of

the recorded itempthe quantity sold of that item during the past year, and

whether or. not.the itemiwas shipped to the store direct from the vendor or from

the retail4owned distribution center. We control for differences across stores and

product categories, All variables in our final model are significant at the 99.9%

level

» store level analysis, we predict the average error in store inven-

va

chan

_ NOFPASAefunetion of inventory density (the quantity of inventory in a particular

“selling floor space), the frequency of inventory audits at the store, the product

Mp isPlaved at the store, and the DC from which the store receives mer-

dise. We control for sales differences across stores. In our fina] model,

inventory density and the frequency of audits are significant at the 95% level,

which the store received merchandise was significant at the 99.9% level.

parr variety is significant at the 99% level, and the impact of the DCs from

We estimate the drivers of misplaced SKUs at the store level. We predict

the fraction of items that are present in storage areas but not on the selling floor

as a function of “SKU density” (the number of SKUs in a particular selling floor

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL 43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 {51

Thin dnnumant ie authariond far ian anh: bu

TALIA CTDARIC until Anvil ON49 Canving ar ranting in an infrinanmant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

space), “depth” (the quantity of inventory for each SKU), backroom size, full.

time and part-time employee turnover, general manager turnover, and ‘ -

ing” (the number of training assistant managers at a particular store) /" We ¢ tol,

for regional differences, unemployment rate, age of the store, and the perig

during which the audit was conducted. In our final model, part- time,employee

turnover is significant at the 95% level, depth is significant at the 99 el, and

SKU density and genera] manager turnover are significant at the 99. 5% ‘evel.

HES

Notes ey

1. Carl Steidtmann, “The New Retail Technology,” Disco Rg ZM(Novernder

1999), pp. 23-24.

2. The research consortium, Consortium for Operational Bixcellendsi in Retailing

(COER), is directed by Professor Marshall Fisher of the Wharton School of the

University and Pennsylvania and Professor Ananth Raman of the Harvard Busi-

ness School. The research is supported by the two schools and a grant from the

Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.

3. John F. Krafcik, “Triumph of the Lean Proditetion System,” Sloan Management

Review, 30 (Fall 1988): 41-52.

4. WE. Deming, Out of the Crisis (Cambfidge, MA; The MIT Press, 2000); P.B. Crosby,

Quality Is Free (New York, NY: Mentor, 1980); J. M. Juran, Juran on Leadership for

Quality: An Executive Handbook (New York, NY: The Free Press, 1989).

5. Levy and Weitz define shrinks thésdifférence between the recorded value of

inventory based on merchandise bought and feceived and the value of actual

inventory in stores and distribution centers. Shrink is caused by employee theft,

by customer shoplifting, and by merchandise being misplaced, damaged, or mis-

priced. Michael, levy and Barton A. Weitz, Retailing Management (New York, NY:

Irwin/McGraw-+Hill, 1998).

6. Milk at a supermarket would be an example of such a low-price but high-stock-

out-cost item. ~

7. See Steven Nahmias, Prodtiction and Operations Analysis (New York, NY:

Irwin/MeGraw-Hill 1997).

8. For a discussion of manufacturing quality, see David Garvin, Managing Quality

(New York, N¥pLhe Free Press, 1988).

9. Seegfor example, Marshall Fisher, Ananth Raman, and Anna Sheen McClelland,

“Rocket Scienice Retailing is Almost Here: Are you Ready?” Harvard Business

ey. 78/4 (July/August 2000): 115-124.

cole DeHoratius and Ananth Raman, “Inventory Record Inaccuracy: An Empiri-

‘Analysis,” Harvard Business School Working Paper (2001).

‘ML pAnanth Raman and Zeynep Ton, “An Empirical Analysis of the Magnitude and

“ Drivers of Misplaced SKUs in Retailing,” Harvard Business School Working Paper

“% (2001),

100)

Aer

152 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL 43,NO.3 SPRING 200!

Thin daaumant ie auitharizad fariien anks hy IAUM CTDARIA until April 9049 Canina av nncting ie an infrinnamant