SOURCE: Execution_The Missing Link in Retail Ops.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Operations Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses issues with inventory management in retail stores, including challenges with tracking inventory in storage areas and the impact of distribution center processes on inventory accuracy.
KEYWORDS: inventory management, store design, distribution center processes
---

o

inventory at the stores often do not maintain separate fields to identify storage

area inventory. The fact that storage areas are often dispersed over multiple loca-

tions and “SKUs not on floor” could be in any of these locations exacerbates the

C

problem. For example, at some stores, there are storage areas above the shelves,

in the basement, at the back of stores, and near the loading dock, and merchan-

dise in each of these areas are not tracked separately.

Store design—especially the design, size, and number of backrooms and

other storage areas—can also hamper execution. The importance of backroom

size, for examtple, can be illustrated with an anecdote from Beta Corporation.

While store performance was largely consistent from one year to the next, there

o

were some anomalies. One store, for example, saw substantial deterioration in

performance from 1998 to 1999. The President of Stores at Beta was not sur-

prised at all. He pointed out that, after repeated requests, he had allowed the

N

store to increase the capacity of its backroom at the end of 1998. Not surpris-

ingly, as ardent proponents of JIT3would have predicted, the backroom had

more inventory after the expansion than it had before and the store suffered

from having a larger fraction of SKUs not available on the floor than it had in

the past.

o

However, store processes only explain part of the problem. Gamma, for

example, found that DC processes had much to do with inventory record inac-

curacy. In early 1999, Gamma tried an experiment at one of its new stores.

D

The company planned to open a store on a particular date and the distribution

department was asked to stock merchandise in preparation for this opening.

Unknown to the distribution department, however, the company postponed the

opening of the store and, instead, audited every item at the store before a single

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 143

This document is authorized for use only by JOHN STRONG until April 2012. Copying or posting is an infringement

of copyright. Permissions@hbsp.harvard.edu or 617.783.7860.

Raman CMR204.qxd 8/16/01 9:21 AM Page 144

t

s

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

o

FIGURE 5. Average Store "Absolute Errors" Grouped by Distribution Center

P

8.00

7.00

r

6.00

o

5.00

4.00

3.00

y

2.00

p

1.00

0.00

o

Stores

C

customer had ever walked the store. Amazingly, system inventory levels were inac-

curate for 29% of the items and the average absolute error was 25% of system

inventory levels. Clearly store processes and customers could not be blamed for

these errors.

The importance of DC processes is also supported by Figure 5, which

t

shows the average error in inventory records at stores served by each of three

different DoCs. Notice that stores served from DC 1 tend to have far smaller errors

than those served from DCs 2 and 3. We suspect that differences in DC processes

explain the differences observed, even though it is possible that the differences

in Nperformance stemmed from regional differences in store management and

labor (because each DC served stores in a certain geographic region). Gamma

managers pointed out that, unlike the other two DCs, DC 1 had had stable man-

agement since its inception. Over time, the management team at DC1 had estab-

lished procedures for a number of activities. For example, procedures for quality

control, receiving inventory returned from stores, and shelving of inventory

o

existed and were enforced.

Interestingly, merchandise received at the stores directly from the vendor

D tend to have much more accurate records than those shipped from even the best

DC. Gamma managers believed that the superior performance obtained on ven-

dor-direct items could be traced to two factors. First, store managers are more

careful in checking shipments received directly from vendors for accuracy, partly

to ensure that invoices are accurate. Expecting this, vendors probably are more

144 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

This document is authorized for use only by JOHN STRONG until April 2012. Copying or posting is an infringement

of copyright. Permissions@hbsp.harvard.edu or 617.783.7860.

)stinu(

rorrE

etulosbA

Raman CMR204.qxd 8/16/01 9:21 AM Page 145

t

s

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

o

careful than DCs, who at times can be somewhat sloppy in verifying accuracy.

P

Furthermore, Gamma Corporation, in an attempt to save on operational com-

plexity, had issued policies whereby stores could not get credit for mis-shipped

items unless the quantity of mis-shipment exceeded a certain dollar amount.

Such a limit did not apply to shipments received directly from v endors. This also

contributed to the increased likelihood of store managers checking vendor ship-

r

ments. Second, vendor-direct shipments tend to be smaller overall and often

contained fewer items. Consequently, they could be checked more easily.

o

Merchandising and Inventory Management

Greater variety and more store inventory lead to greater inaccuracy in

inventory records and more misplaced SKUs. Our data show conclusively (i.e.,

with very high statistical significance) that inycreasing variety leads to more exe-

cution problems. Increasing variety results in multiple items at a store that are

very similar to each other. Similar SKUs result in process confusion at the DC

p

and the store. For example, it is easy for pickers at the DC to pick one SKU

instead of the other by accident, especially if the SKUs, in addition to being simi-

lar, are located next to each other. Similarly, as in the yogurt example provided

o

earlier, it is easier for salespeople at the store to scan one SKU multiple times if

a consumer purchases multiple SKUs that are similar to each other.

With misplaced SKUs, it is harder for employees to identify items that are

C

misplaced, or identify items that are in the backroom but should be on the sell-

ing floor, when there are more SKUs in a store. In a bookstore, for instance,

associates find it extremely hard to identify titles that are missing from the sales