SOURCE: Execution_The Missing Link in Retail Ops.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Operations Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of inventory management and employee training in improving execution performance in retail operations.
KEYWORDS: inventory management, employee training, execution performance, retail operations, stockouts
---

• Benchmark performance at different

available in storage).Easier for checkout

stores to identify how merchandising and

counter clerk or picker in DC to get two

inventory management affect execution

very similar items confused.

o performance.

• Additional inventory leads to more

crowding in stores.Harder to keep track

of items.

C

Turnover • New employees get confused more easily • Create awareness among store and

human resource managers.

• Store managers cannot transfer,to new

managers,tacit knowledge about store • Benchmark performance at different

processes and procedures. stores to quantify the impact of turnover

on execution.

t

o

annual audits, many managers at each firm were surprised by the shocking evi-

dence of poor execution.

Lack of awareness is often to blame for the inaccurate scanning of mer-

N

chandise, one cause of inventory record inaccuracy. Most checkout clerks do

not realize the impact of their actions on the accuracy of inventory records. Per-

haps more problematic in most organizations, store training and incentives moti-

vate clerks to focus on scanning quickly rather than accurately. POS scanners

should not be viewed exclusively as labor-saving devices, as has been common

o in the past, but rather as critical data gathering tools. As such, employees need

to be aware of the importance of the data collected and how inaccuracies can

have repercussions throughout the organization, and they must be trained

D accordingly.

Consistent with the claim that awareness can help us better manage these

execution problems, the accuracy of inventory records improves with the cost of

the item. That is, inventory records are more likely to be accurate for expensive

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 147

This document is authorized for use only by JOHN STRONG until April 2012. Copying or posting is an infringement

of copyright. Permissions@hbsp.harvard.edu or 617.783.7860.

Raman CMR204.qxd 8/16/01 9:21 AM Page 148

t

s

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

o

items. This is true even after controlling for other differences among expensive

P

and inexpensive items. The reason for this finding is that store managers and

employees, because of their focus on controlling inventory shrink,5pay more

attention to managing inventory of expensive items. While this focus on expen-

sive items is appropriate for managing shrink, it is inappropriat e for managing

execution. By focusing their attention on expensive items, retailers run the risk

r

of running out of items that, though inexpensive, have high stockout costs.

Gamma, for example, had identified a list of 250 “never out” items that though

o

inexpensive were those that consumers expected the stores to have in stock.6

However, since many of these items were inexpensive and also had high annual

sales volumes, they were highly prone to inaccuracies in inventory records and,

as a consequence, frequent stockouts.

In addition, creating awareness of the yproblem is not enough; awareness

of the impactof the problem is also important. At Gamma for example, quantify-

ing the lost profit due to inventory record inaccuracy was a vital step in gaining

p

senior management commitment. Beta, on the other hand, quantified the cost

associated with misplaced SKUs early in the project. Having quantified these

costs, Beta managers were able to garner top-management support that led to

o

the creation of a cross-functional team to address the problem.

Creating awareness of the problem and its impact broadly in the organiza-

tion can often have immediate consequences. During the last year alone, Beta

C

reduced the number of SKUs that are in the store but not on the selling floor by

22%, driven largely through greater awareness and training at the store level.

Count and Inspect

Frequent physical audits of stores can help in improving execution perfor-

t

mance. At Gamma, stores that were counted twice a year had substantially

lower erroors.

Most retail stores conduct annual physical audits or periodic “cycle

counts” where a part of the store is counted every week or month. At most

stoNres, physical audits are performed to ensure “financial conformance.” Hence,

the auditors measure shrink carefully but do not track errors in inventory at the

SKU level. For example, the auditors would conclude that there was no shrink if

a store had extra units of a particular item and was short by the same number of

units for another item with the same price. At many stores, system and physical

inventories have not been aligned for years, even though the physical audits and

o

cycle counts offered excellent opportunities for doing so.

To start using their inspection procedures more effectively, many compa-

D nies should make some changes to their physical audit and cycle counting

processes. The audit and count should be conducted at the item level, not at the

dollar level alone. In other words, companies should ask their auditors to exam-

ine absolute unit differences between system and physical inventory levels.

148 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

This document is authorized for use only by JOHN STRONG until April 2012. Copying or posting is an infringement

of copyright. Permissions@hbsp.harvard.edu or 617.783.7860.

Raman CMR204.qxd 8/16/01 9:21 AM Page 149

t

s

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

o

Moreover, the absolute differences should be stored to enable the identification

P

of stores and SKUs that are executing exceptionally well or poorly. If appropri-

ate, auditors should also check if the items are shelved at the right location

within the store. Beta Corporation, for example, was aided by the fact that the

company tracked how many units of each item were available at different loca-

tions. Thus, the company tracked how muchand wherethe item was within the

r

store (e.g., whether an item was in the backroom or on the selling floor).

A variation of cycle counting to improve inventory record accuracy can

o

be found at some retail chains. Employees at these companies perform a “Zero-

Balance Walk” every day at their stores to identify items that are stocked out.

The company verifies system inventory levels for these items and adjusts system