SOURCE: Executives Summaries of HBR Reprint_Favourites.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Treatment and Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: This text discusses how some retailers create a virtuous cycle by investing in employees, improving operational execution, and boosting sales and profits, in contrast with retailers that cut labor to meet short-term performance targets.
KEYWORDS: employee investment, operational execution, retail strategy, labor costs, virtuous cycle
---

bad jobs to keep prices low,

Asa result, almost one-fifth

of American workers suffer

low wages, poor benefits,

constantly changing sched-

ules, and few opportunities

for advancement. The author's

research reveals, however, that

the presumed trade-off be-

tween investment in employees

and low prices is false.

To meet short-term perfor-

mance targets, many retailers

cut labor. The unmotivated and

poorly trained employees who

remain often cannot keep up

with their tasks in a complex

operating environment. The re-

sult is a vicious cycle, in which

lower sales and profits tempt

managers to cut even more

employees.

Retailers such as QuikTrip,

Mercadona, Trader Joe's,

and Costco instead create a

virtuous cycle of investment in

employees, stellar opera-

tional execution, higher sales

and profits, and larger labor

budgets. They also make work

more efficient and fulfilling for

employees, improve customer

service, and boost sales and

profits through four practices:

simplify operations by offering

fewer products and promo-

tions, train employees to per-

form multiple tasks, eliminate

waste in everything but staffing,

and let employees make some

decisions.

HBR Reprint RIZ01L

THE GLOBE

STRATEGY & COMPETITION

When One Business

Model Isn’t Enough

Ramon Casadesus-Masanell and

Jorge Tarzijdn | page 132

Trying to operate two business models at once

often causes strategic failure. Yet LAN Airlines,

a Chilean carrier, runs three models success-

fully. Casadesus-Masanell, of Harvard Business

School, and Tarzijan, of the Pontificia Univer-

sidad Catdlica de Chile, explore how LAN has

integrated a full-service international passenger

model with a premium air-cargo business model

while separately operating a no-frills passenger

model for domestic flights.

LAN’s multimodel success comes from recog-

nizing the complementarity of its two high-end

services and the distinct, or substitute, nature of

its no-frills offering. LAN came to that insight by

analyzing the major assets that the models share

and the compatibility of the madels’ operational

resources and capabilities. It recognized that

the more the models have in common, the more

likely they are to generate greater value together

than apart; the less they share, the more likely

they are to be best executed separately.

Nevertheless, managing multiple models is a

tall order. LAN has had to face greater complex-

ity, broaden its organizational skills, increase

the flexibitity of its workforce, and make other

investments. But by mastering three models, the

company has built formidable advantages that

are difficult for competitors to overcome. Its

example has shown how, properly applied, the

implementation of multiple business models is

not a risk but rather a new tool for strategists.

HBR Reprint R120IM

POSTMASTER

Send domestic address changes, orders, and inquiries

to: Harvard Business Review, Subscription Service,

P.O. Box 62270, Tampa, FL 33662. GST Registration

No. 1247384345. Periodical postage paid at Boston,

Massachusetts, and additional mailing offices.

Printed in the U.S.A. Harvard Business Review (ISSN

0027-8012; USPS 0236-520), published monthly with

combined issues in January-February and July-August

for professional managers, is an education program

of Harvard Business School, Harvard University;

Nitin Nohria, dean.

Published by Harvard Business School Publishing

Corporation, 60 Harvard Way, Boston, MA 02163.

Copyright © 20n Harvard Business School Publishing

Corporation. All rights reserved.

Volume go, Number 1/2

HBR.ORG

LEADERSHIP

Gilt Groupe’s CEO on Building a

Team of A Players

Kevin Ryan | page 43

Ryan believes that a CEO

Should spend more time. on.

recruiting and managing

people than on any other

activity, and that the head

of HR is one of the most

important people in the

company. He insists on his

freedom to bypass managers

and speak with any employee at any time.

‘And he espouses certain talent-management

principles, such as that your best people are

usually underpaid (reward them with perfor-

mance pay) and that people leave jobs mainly

because they don’t like their managers.

Recruiting at Gilt Groupe focuses on refer-

ences more than on résumés and interviews

because, Ryan says, résumés only establish

basic qualifications for a job, and interview-

ers can’t help being influenced by well-

‘spoken or attractive people. But reference

checks need to go beyond the names sup-

plied by a candidate: Employers should dig

up people in their networks who are willing to

speak candidly,

HBR Reprint Ri201A

Managing Yourself

/ ‘Three Skills Every aist-century

Manager Needs ;

Andrew L. Molinsky, Thomas H, Davenport

_ and Bala lyer, and a cally ‘Davidson | page. 139

over the past ‘decade.

‘companies have become

ore global and employee

roups more diverse than.

ver before. Organizations

re less hierarchical and

ore collaborative. And

‘oday's offices are full of

nce unimaginable tech-

| mologicat distractions. We asked experts in.

_ cross-cultural communication, information

| networks, and the science of attention what

skills executives should cultivate to tackle.

these new challenges. Molinsky thinks that

managers must overcome psychological:

barriers in order to act in ways that other

“cultures find appropriate. Davenport and lyer.

__explain why the devolution of hierarchy has.

increased the value of building and wielding

influence through digital networks and offer:

“tips for.how to.do it. And Davidson tells man-

agers to get over their fears about distraction

and embrace the brain's natural tendency to |

divide attention.. :

_ HBR Reprint RI20IN

Dragon Hotel is

providing a legendary

guest experience.

At the heart of this Chinese

hotel is a dynamic IT infrastructure;

that uses RFID-equipped smart —*.

cards for fast check-ins and 4

custom room preferences, so

guests feel right at home.

Ngai

il

(el

ic

Let’s build a

smarter planet.

To learn more about the insights

and solutions behind these

success stories, or to find an

IBM Business Partner that’s right

for you, visit ibm.com/engines

doin the conversation:

El facebook.com/MidmarketIBM

{&@ twitter.convMidmarketIBM

Tt

tien

iit

Hell