SOURCE: Execution - The Missing Link In Retail Operations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Merchandising and Inventory Management
SUMMARY: Increased product variety and inventory lead to more execution problems, such as misplaced SKUs and difficulty in identifying and reordering items.
KEYWORDS: product variety, inventory management, execution problems, SKU misplacement, employee training
---

contributed to the increased likelihood of store managers checking _ lor ship-

ments. Second, vendor-direct shipments tend to be smaller overall and oftem

contained fewer items. Consequently, they could be checked mi@re easily.

Merchandising and Inventory Management

Greater variety and more store inventory lead t uy

inventory records and more misplaced SKUs. Our data show con¢lusively (Le.,

with very high statistical significance) that increasing variety, leads to more exe-

cution problems. Increasing variety results in multiple items at a store that are

very similar to each other. Similar SKUs result in process confusion at the DC

and the store. For example, it is easy for pickers at the DC to pick one SKU

instead of the other by accident, especially ifthe’ SKUs) in addition to being simi-

lar, are located next to each other. Similarly, as! in the yogurt example provided

earlier, it is easier for salespeople at th@ store to s¢an one SKU multiple times if

a consumer purchases multiple SKUs. thatare.similar to each other,

With misplaced SKUs, it if harder for employees to identify items that are

misplaced, or identify items that are in the backroom but should be on the sell-

ing floor, when there are more SKUspimia store. In a bookstore, for instance,

associates find it extremely hard‘te identify titles that are missing from the sales

floor and available in the backroom as assortment increases. As another exam-

ple, one bread manufacturer deseribed the problem of “lost facings” that his firm

encountered when dealing with supermarkets that rely on manual reordering at

stores. Increasing»bread assortment led to associates simply forgetting to reorder

some bread SKUs {for a few days, which eventually led to the item being dropped

from the stoxe’s,assortment entirely.

Additional inventory leads to more crowded stores, and hence, makes it

nig: to keep track of the number of units available. It is easy to count inven-

ry Umits!are available per SKU but hard to do so accurately when each

rm ny units. Moreover, additional inventory also leads to multiple loca-

same item, which also leads to greater difficulty in counting and

‘ing that items are not missing from the sales floor.

aie:

_ Employee Turnover

At Beta Corporation, two aspects of employee turnover were associated

ith the number of items that were found in the store but not on the selling

floor.

Stores with higher turnover of floor employees had more items that

were not on the floor. This is not surprising because, at Beta, floor employees

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL 43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 145

Thin dant 2 AQUI CTDANA until Anvil 9949 Canuinng ar nacting in an infrinaamnant

aiithavignd far cen anhs

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

are typically responsible for re-shelving merchandise from the storage area tow :

the selling floor. New floor employees understandably are less familiar \ i

stores’ products and replenishment processes and probably make more s

transferring items from the storage to the selling area. Moreover,

nized at Beta Corporation, as is true at many other retail stores. The:

on the employee doing replenishment to know if an item, which has sold dat on

the selling floor, is available in one of the storage areas. Newerémployees are

less likely to have this knowledge and hence could contribut more items

being in the storage area and not on the floor.

sas 5

A second observation: stores where the store mafager had either resigned

or was fired during the year prior to the store audit hada higher percentage of

misplaced items, an understandable phenomenon becausélasidre manager's

departure could be disruptive to various operatigns at the store.

Improving Retail Execution

Enlightened retailers, such as Beta and Gamma, are moving to improve

execution in their operations. In fact, both Beta and Gamma have launched

substantial initiatives with participation at the*most senior levels in the organi-

zation. The executives in charge of storésiand Merchandising are personally

involved in the projects; the CEQjor Chairman is typically kept abreast of

progress being made. Phere are thréegways in which execution can be improved:

through creating awareness of theproblem and its impact; through counting and

inspection; and by benchmarking performance within the retail chain to under-

stand the drivers of poomexecution and to allow poorer performers to learn from

their better performing counterparts. These potential solutions and the drivers of

poor executiomidentified in the previous section are summarized in Table 1.

Quite clearly,.the execution problems described here are similar to the

problems deseribed and addressed in quality management. Not surprisingly, our

prescriptions are similar to and share some characteristics with the solutions

id@nified to improve quality in manufacturing. Similar to the observations by

Deming; by Juran, and by Crosby, there is no single “magic bullet” or easy

wiquick fix to overcome the problems in retail execution. * However, execution

¢ performance, just like manufacturing quality, can be improved.

CreatéyAwareness of the Problem and

Its Impact on the Firm’s Performance

Many employees in retail companies are unaware of the extent and mag-

itude of these execution problems in their chains, even if they are in functions

3 we like Merchandising and Replenishment that rely on such data. Although both

Gamma and Beta are among the relatively few retailers that actually track

inventory quantity at the SKU level and location within the store during their

146 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL 43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

Thin danimant ie nitharigad far nen anhs hu IOUN OTDARIC until Anvil 2049 Canuina ar nactina ie an infrinnnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

TABLE I.

Drivers of and Potential Solutions for Execution Problems

Driver of

Execution y

Problems Examples Potential Solutions »

Store and DC * Errors in scanning at checkout °

ee * Items not moved from storage to shelf

Wocesses at appropriate time

« Wrong item picked in DC

* Shipments from DC not verified at store

Merchandising * Greater variety in assortment leads to

and Inventory more confusion (e.g. harder to identify

Management merchandise that has been sold andis