SOURCE: Execution_The Missing Link in Retail Ops.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Operations Management
SUMMARY: This text analyzes the drivers of inventory record inaccuracy and misplaced SKUs in retail stores, providing insights to improve execution in retail operations.
KEYWORDS: inventory record inaccuracy, misplaced SKUs, retail operations, store performance, execution management
---

P

often not be found. As a result, the company discovered the magnitude of mis-

placed SKUs in its stores.

Conclusion

r

It is important for retailers, at a minimum, to be aware of these problems

and the potential impact they may have on profitabilityo. Moreover, as a Beta

executive pointed out, acknowledging the prevalence of weak execution would

make it less embarrassing for retailers to discuss these problems in public and

thus identify solutions jointly. Execution can be managed. Our data show that

some stores perform better than others year after year. The drivers of these dif-

ferences yield prescriptions to improve execuytion.

p

APPENDIX

Summary of Empirical Analysis

o

Our conclusions on the drivers of inventory record inaccuracy and mis-

placed SKUs are based on regression analysis, a statistical technique that allows

us to explain the variationC in a dependent variable using values of other vari-

ables. We use three regression models to derive our results, two applied to

Gamma data (for inventory record inaccuracy) and one applied to Beta (for mis-

placed SKUs). More details of our technical analysis can be found in DeHoratius

and Raman10and in Raman and Ton.11

We estimate the drivers of inventory record inaccuracy at the record level

t

and at the store level. For our record level analysis, we use logistic regression to

predict the probability of inventory record accuracy as a function of the cost of

o

the recorded item, the quantity sold of that item during the past year, and

whether or not the item was shipped to the store direct from the vendor or from

the retail-owned distribution center. We control for differences across stores and

N

product categories. All variables in our final model are significant at the 99.9%

level.

For our store level analysis, we predict the average error in store inven-

tory as a function of inventory density (the quantity of inventory in a particular

selling floor space), the frequency of inventory audits at the store, the product

o variety displayed at the store, and the DC from which the store receives mer-

chandise. We control for sales differences across stores. In our final model,

inventory density and the frequency of audits are significant at the 95% level,

D product variety is significant at the 99% level, and the impact of the DCs from

which the store received merchandise was significant at the 99.9% level.

We estimate the drivers of misplaced SKUs at the store level. We predict

the fraction of items that are present in storage areas but not on the selling floor

as a function of “SKU density” (the number of SKUs in a particular selling floor

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 151

This document is authorized for use only by JOHN STRONG until April 2012. Copying or posting is an infringement

of copyright. Permissions@hbsp.harvard.edu or 617.783.7860.

Raman CMR204.qxd 8/16/01 9:21 AM Page 152

t

s

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

o

space), “depth” (the quantity of inventory for each SKU), backroom size, full-

P

time and part-time employee turnover, general manager turnover, and “train-

ing” (the number of training assistant managers at a particular store). We control

for regional differences, unemployment rate, age of the store, and the period

during which the audit was conducted. In our final model, part-time employee

turnover is significant at the 95% level, depth is significant at the 99% level, and

SKU density and general manager turnover are significant art the 99.5% level.

o

Notes

1. Carl Steidtmann, “The New Retail Technology,” Discount Merchandiser(November

1999), pp. 23-24.

2. The research consortium, Consortium for Operational Excellence in Retailing

(COER), is directed by Professor Marshall Fyisher of the Wharton School of the

University and Pennsylvania and Professor Ananth Raman of the Harvard Busi-

ness School. The research is supported by the two schools and a grant from the

Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. p

3. John F. Krafcik, “Triumph of the Lean Production System,” Sloan Management

Review, 30 (Fall 1988): 41-52.

4. W.E. Deming, Out of the Crisis(Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press, 2000); P.B. Crosby,

o

Quality Is Free(New York, NY: Mentor, 1980); J. M. Juran, Juran on Leadership for

Quality: An Executive Handbook(New York, NY: The Free Press, 1989).

5. Levy and Weitz define shrink as the difference between the recorded value of

inventory based on mCerchandise bought and received and the value of actual

inventory in stores and distribution centers. Shrink is caused by employee theft,

by customer shoplifting, and by merchandise being misplaced, damaged, or mis-

priced. Michael Levy and Barton A. Weitz, Retailing Management(New York, NY:

Irwin/McGraw-Hill, 1998).

6. Milk at a su permarket would be an example of such a low-price but high-stock-

out-cost item.

t

7. See Steven Nahmias, Production and Operations Analysis(New York, NY:

Irwin/McGraw-Hill 1997).

o

8. For a discussion of manufacturing quality, see David Garvin, Managing Quality

(New York, NY: The Free Press, 1988).

9. See, for example, Marshall Fisher, Ananth Raman, and Anna Sheen McClelland,

N“Rocket Science Retailing is Almost Here: Are you Ready?” Harvard Business

Review, 78/4 (July/August 2000): 115-124.

10. Nicole DeHoratius and Ananth Raman, “Inventory Record Inaccuracy: An Empiri-

cal Analysis,” Harvard Business School Working Paper (2001).

11. Ananth Raman and Zeynep Ton, “An Empirical Analysis of the Magnitude and

Drivers of Misplaced SKUs in Retailing,” Harvard Business School Working Paper

(2001).

o

D

152 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

This document is authorized for use only by JOHN STRONG until April 2012. Copying or posting is an infringement

of copyright. Permissions@hbsp.harvard.edu or 617.783.7860.