SOURCE: Execution - The Missing Link In Retail Operations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Merchandising and Inventory Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses how issues in merchandising and inventory management, such as wrong items picked or unverified shipments, can affect execution and lead to confusion, crowding, and inaccurate records.
KEYWORDS: inventory management, merchandising, execution, shrink, stockouts
---

ee * Items not moved from storage to shelf

Wocesses at appropriate time

« Wrong item picked in DC

* Shipments from DC not verified at store

Merchandising * Greater variety in assortment leads to

and Inventory more confusion (e.g. harder to identify

Management merchandise that has been sold andis

available in storage). Easier for checkout “— identify how merchandising and

counter clerk or picker in DC to Set LWON management affect execution

very similar items confused. po

* Additional inventory leads to mo

crowding in stores, Harder to l ‘

of items.

Turnover ‘ + Create awareness among store and

human resource managers.

managers, tac oaiatea bout store * Benchmark performance at different

processes * procedures. i stores to quantify the impact of turnover

on execution.

annual audits,

dence of poo

focus on scanning quickly rather than accurately. POS scanners

uld not be viewed exclusively as labor-saving devices, as has been common

in ast, but rather as critical data gathering tools. As such, employees need

to be aware of the importance of the data collected and how inaccuracies can

have repercussions throughout the organization, and they must be trained

ccordingly.

Consistent with the claim that awareness can help us better manage these

execution problems, the accuracy of inventory records improves with the cost of

the item. That is, inventory records are more likely to be accurate for expensive

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL 43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 147

This daniumant ie autharizad far uien ants hi IAUA CTRARIA rntil Aneil 9949 Canina ae nacting ie an infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

items. This is true even after controlling for other differences among expensive “Wy

and inexpensive items. The reason for this finding is that store managers anda

employees, because of their focus on controlling inventory shrink,’ pa q

attention to managing inventory of expensive items. While this fo.

sive items is appropriate for managing shrink, it is inappropriate for m

execution. By focusing their attention on expensive items, retailers runt

of running out of items that, though inexpensive, have high stockout costs.)

Gamma, for example, had identified a list of 250 “never out” items that though

inexpensive were those that consumers expected the stores t@have in stock.®

However, since many of these items were inexpensive and.also id high annual

sales volumes, they were highly prone to inaccuracies i inventory récords and,

as a consequence, frequent stockouts. ;

In addition, creating awareness of the problem is N@by om fir awareness

of the impact of the problem is also important. AjGamma for example, quantify-

ing the lost profit due to inventory record inaccuracy was a vital step in gaining

senior management commitment. Beta, on the othemhand, quantified the cost

associated with misplaced SKUs early in the projectt Having quantified these

costs, Beta managers were able to garnér top-Management support that led to

the creation of a cross-functional teamto address the problem.

Creating awareness of the problem aiid‘its impact broadly in the organiza-

tion can often have immediate consequences. During the last year alone, Beta

reduced the number of SKUs thatare in the store but not on the selling floor by

22%, driven largely through greatetawareness and training at the store level.

Count and Inspect

Frequent physicallaudits,of stores can help in improving execution perfor-

mance, At Gamma, stores that were counted twice a year had substantially

lower errors.

Most retail stores conduct annual physical audits or periodic “cycle

counts” where apart of the store is counted every week or month. At most

stores, physical audits are performed to ensure “financial conformance.” Hence,

ie idit ors,measure shrink carefully but do not track errors in inventory at the

For example, the auditors would conclude that there was no shrink if

ath xtra units of a particular item and was short by the same number of

Ye or another item with the same price. At many stores, system and physical

mtories have not been aligned for years, even though the physical audits and

cycle eGunts offered excellent opportunities for doing so.

To start using their inspection procedures more effectively, many compa-

nies should make some changes to their physical audit and cycle counting

Jie The audit and count should be conducted at the item Jevel, not at the

‘dollar level alone. In other words, companies should ask their auditors to exam-

ine absolute unit differences between system and physical inventory levels.

Lew

148 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL 43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

Thin danumant ie authariond far ian anhs hu LAUR OTDANA until Anvil 9049 Crnuing ar ancting in nn infrinanmant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

Moreover, the absolute differences should be stored to enable the identification

of stores and SKUs that are executing exceptionally well or poorly. If a ppropris

ate, auditors should also check if the items are shelved at the right logation

within the store. Beta Corporation, for example, was aided by the fact tha

company tracked how many units of each item were available at differen

tions. Thus, the company tracked how much and where the item was within the

store (e.g., whether an item was in the backroom or on the selling floor).

A variation of cycle counting to improve inventory record accuracy can

be found at some retail chains. Employees at these companies perform a “Zero-

Balance Walk” every day at their stores to identify items thabare stocked out.

The company verifies system inventory levels for thesedtems and adjusts system

inventory levels for those items found to be inaccurate: Beta launched an initia-

tive to track misplaced SKUs in its stores. The stores were asked to verify if 100

randomly chosen SKUs were available at the right location. Such a sampling

process is much less expensive than the audit and ¢ould be performed more

frequently than the annual audit by store employees, Such routine checks,

partly by increasing the awareness of the problem, €amoften go a long way in

improving execution.

The zero-balance walk or the sampling process could also be the basis for