SOURCE: Execution_The Missing Link in Retail Ops.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Operations Execution
SUMMARY: Retailers can improve operational execution by identifying and addressing execution issues, such as inaccurate inventory records and misplaced SKUs, through routine checks, statistical process control, and learning from well-executing stores within their own chains.
KEYWORDS: inventory management, process improvement, operational execution, retail operations, store performance
---

o

be found at some retail chains. Employees at these companies perform a “Zero-

Balance Walk” every day at their stores to identify items that are stocked out.

The company verifies system inventory levels for these items and adjusts system

inventory levels for those items found to be inaccurate. Beta launched an initia-

tive to track misplaced SKUs in its stores. They stores were asked to verify if 100

randomly chosen SKUs were available at the right location. Such a sampling

process is much less expensive than the audit and could be performed more

p

frequently than the annual audit by store employees. Such routine checks,

partly by increasing the awareness of the problem, can often go a long way in

improving execution.

o

The zero-balance walk or the sampling process could also be the basis for

a statistical process control (“SPC”) chart that has been recommended and used

widely in manufacturing.7Each inaccurate inventory record or misplaced SKU

C

could be considered a “defect” in quality terms and substantial deviations from

expected defect levels would be investigated and become opportunities for learn-

ing and process improvement.

Benchmark within Your Chain

t

Retailers can improve execution in their stores by learning from parts

of their choains that are currently executing well. Our research shows that some

stores within a chain execute much better, and consistently so, than other stores.

Evidence that some stores are executing well serves as powerful evidence

to Nmanagers in retail companies that operational execution canbe managed and

improved. This evidence can be used to understand the drivers of poor execu-

tion and can also be used to motivate the stores that are lagging in execution.

Both Beta and Gamma shared the results of our statistical analysis widely

in their organizations. Understandably, the findings generated a lot of interest

o not only among store managers, but also managers from merchandising and

human resources whose actions were shown by our analysis to impact a store’s

ability to execute. Moreover, the wide dispersion within the same chain, where

D all the stores use the same information technology and have the same monetary

incentives, makes it clear that technology and incentives are not the drivers of

inter-store differences.

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 149

This document is authorized for use only by JOHN STRONG until April 2012. Copying or posting is an infringement

of copyright. Permissions@hbsp.harvard.edu or 617.783.7860.

Raman CMR204.qxd 8/16/01 9:21 AM Page 150

t

s

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

o

Immediate Steps to Improving Operational Execution in Retailing

P

Retailers can take the following five steps to improve operational execu-

tion immediately.

As a first step, retailers should measure performance along dimensions of

operational execution that are important to their businesses. For example, retail-

ers that are interested in improving inventory record inaccuracy should measure

r

the absolute difference between system and actual inventory levels at the SKU

level. Similarly, those that are interested in managing moisplaced SKUs should

measure the fraction of their stores’ assortment that is misplaced within the

store. Such measures, as noted earlier, can be derived from physical audits at the

stores, through sampling methods, or through cy cle counting procedures.

Second, these measurements should be used to create awareness of the

y

problem. As noted earlier, it is valuable to be able to quantify the costs associated

with poor execution. Managers in functions like merchandising, information

technology, marketing, and human resopurces—whose efforts are compromised

by poor execution or whose actions determine the quality of execution in retail-

ing—are usually unaware of the magnitude, or even existence, of execution

problems. Store and DC personnoel, on the other hand, are often aware of exe-

cution problem but unaware of its impact on the company.

Third, the measurements should be used to set up a process for continu-

ous process improvementC. Similar to the approach taken with managing quality

in manufacturing,8retailers should set up processes for diagnosing the causes

of poor execution and identifying ways in which these causes can be overcome.

Fourth, retailers should derive advantages from the fact that they typi-

cally control hundreds or even thousands of stores, and can use the differences

in processes atnd performance at these stores to understand how execution can

be improved.

o

Fifth, retailers can improve performance by using operational data for

decision making. It is tempting for some to argue that the execution problems

reported here should logically lead us to avoid relying on POS and inventory

N

data for inventory and supply chain planning. There are two flaws in this argu-

ment. One, not relying on such data for inventory management, as others have

argued,9is simply infeasible in the long term, especially as leading retailers

such as Beta and Gamma are improving their ability to use such data. Two,

using the data can expose problems in them and hence provide the company

o with impetus to improve execution. Both Beta and Gamma discovered their

execution problems when they attempted to use the data in their systems.

Gamma, for example, found that the performance of its automatic replenish-

D ment systems was compromised because of inaccurate inventory records. Beta

had invested in computerized kiosks that allowed customers to find out if a cer-

tain item was available at the store. The company began to investigate customer

150 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

This document is authorized for use only by JOHN STRONG until April 2012. Copying or posting is an infringement

of copyright. Permissions@hbsp.harvard.edu or 617.783.7860.

Raman CMR204.qxd 8/16/01 9:21 AM Page 151

t

s

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

o

complaints that items that the system showed as available at the store could

P

often not be found. As a result, the company discovered the magnitude of mis-

placed SKUs in its stores.

Conclusion

r

It is important for retailers, at a minimum, to be aware of these problems

and the potential impact they may have on profitabilityo. Moreover, as a Beta