SOURCE: Execution - The Missing Link In Retail Operations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Operations Performance
SUMMARY: The text examines execution problems in retail operations, such as inventory inaccuracy, and highlights opportunities to improve by learning from high-performing stores.
KEYWORDS: retail operations, inventory accuracy, execution, performance improvement
---

From a Sample of 242 Stores

Frequency

0.2%

0.6%

1.0%

1.4%

1.8%

2.2%

2.6%

3.0%

3.4%

3.8%

42%

4.6%

5.0%

5.4%

5.8%

6.2%

6.6%

7.0%

7A%

78%

8.2%

8.6%

9.0%

9A%

9.8%

10.2%

10.6%

11.0%

11.4%

11.8%

12.2%

12.6%

13.0%

Fraction of SKUs Not on Floor

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL. 43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 139

This danuman tie nuthaviand far nen anhe be IOUM CTDONG until Aneil ON49 Canuinn ne nastinn ie on infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations C

where the system showed 42 units in inventory was, in reality, stocked out. THe” ne <=

error in data caused the system not to replenish the item and because the i item

had not sold in months due to the stockout, reduced future demand c

observe consumer demand accurately, and this, in turn, causes thet

estimate demand for items that were misplaced at the stores.

For example, many retailers now allow consumers to purcha ms on the

Internet and return merchandise to their stores. Similarly shai

n ew. a store’s

whether an

item is available at a store and even to reserve the item foriiutuire purchase

without having to visit the store. However, offering such a service reliably re-

quires inventory data to be accurate and also requ es that items that are avail-

able at the store can be found easily by a Comsymern - imagine the impact of a

consumer verifying on the web that an item, was ava le at a particular store

and traveling to that store only to find the itemstocke ut because the infor-

mation on the web was inaccurate or Because the itent had been misplaced at

the store. Most retailers recognize that t stlassociated with disappointing

customers after promising produét ava’ ability is substantial. Not surprisingly,

many have shied away from offering thei stores” inventory on the web for

consumers to examin " ad 3

There is, howeyer, reason te be optimistic; the incidence of these execu-

tion problems can be research shows that while execution is weak

on average at the chainSjthat wevhave studied so far, pockets of excellence are

present {i.e., some stores perform better than others). Consequently, operational

execution caffb@improved quickly and dramatically if retail managers were to

create awareness of the magnitude and impact of execution problems in their

supply chainand leat, from those stores that are currently executing well.

ives Poor Execution in Retail Operations?

i scovered these execution problems by accident. A few years ago,

dying retail supply chains and operations in a research consor-

? that included over 30 retailers. Our goal in this consortium was primarily

tou stand how retailers do, and recommend how they should, forecast

demand and plan inventory levels and other operational variables in the supply

chain.

Our assumption in launching this research consortium was that retailers

had plenty of sales and inventory data that was “clean” and easily accessible.

Consequently, we were surprised when, early in our research, executives at a

small retailer told us about problems relating to inventory record inaccuracy.

We assumed that the problems were unique to this retailer and would not be

140 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL 43,NO.3 SPRING 2001

Thin dannimant is nutharicad far cen anhs hy IAUM CTOAKIG until AnrilON49 Canuing ar nneting ie an inffinnaamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

lems described i in this article at multiple retailers in food, apparel, 6

and office product categories. x

our study as

ical audits are

tore and

are closed at

having stellar operations and systems. At Beta and Gamma,

conducted annually or semi-annually; a team of auditors,

collects data on the amount and location of various SKUs. Sto

the time of physical audit, hence execution problems al to be less preva-

lent during an audit than during regular store hours. Foré of Beta’s 242

stores, we were able to obtain the fraction of a store’s assortment that had been

misplaced in storage areas and hence was not available in the selling area where

consumers could find and purchase them. AbGamm we obtained “physical”

and “system” inventory levels and hence_exrors ntory records for roughly

10,000 SKUs at 37 stores. é ;

Our analyses revealed a numbér of insight that » interesting to man-

agers, and at least a few that were.initially Surprising to us. The performance of

stores measured on the two exeéntion Problem identified here varied consider-

ably. For example, avera e absolute error (between physical and system inven-

tory level) ranged fro 2.4 units ‘peksiore- SKU at one store to 7.9 units per

store-SKU at anothef, Similarly, with misplaced SKUs, the fraction of a store’s

assortment that was misplaced in storage areas ranged from 0.2% to 10%.

Moreover, store performance for both measures remained consistent from one

year to the next. The variation in performance among stores and the consistency

of performanée,from one year to the next is summarized in Figures 3 and 4.

Our staff analysis (described briefly in Appendix 1) enabled us to

ad Categories of drivers: replenishment and sales processes at

uinientive mechanisms and were part of the same corporate entity;

, these factors could not explain the differences in store

Replénishment and Sales Processes at Stores and DCs

The processes followed at stores and distribution centers understandably

affect the quality of execution in the stores. Consider the inventory record inac-

uracy problem—it is easy to see that store processes contribute substantially to

& wr this problem. Almost all of us, when buying multiple, identically priced items at

a supermarket, say a lemon yogurt and a plain yogurt, have watched the sales-

person scan one item (say, the lemon yogurt) twice instead of each item sepa-

rately. This apparently innocuous practice results in two discrepancies between

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL 43,NO.3 SPRING 200] 141

Thie daniuimant ie aitharizad far ian ants hy IAUM STRANI nil Ansil O04 Canuing ar ancting ie an infvinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

FIGURE 3. Consistent Performance in Inventory Accuracy Among Stores in Two >

Consecutive Years .

8.00 }