SOURCE: Execution - The Missing Link In Retail Operations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Operations Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses ways retailers can improve operational execution in their stores, such as conducting routine checks, using statistical process control, and benchmarking within their own chain.
KEYWORDS: operational execution, inventory management, performance measurement, process improvement, benchmarking
---

frequently than the annual audit by store employees, Such routine checks,

partly by increasing the awareness of the problem, €amoften go a long way in

improving execution.

The zero-balance walk or the sampling process could also be the basis for

a Statistical process control (“SPC”)sehart thamhas been recommended and used

widely in manufacturing.’ Eachsinaccurate invéntory record or misplaced SKU

could be considered a “defect” in quality terms and substantial deviations from

expected defect levelsa@vould be investigated and become opportunities for learn

ing and process improvement.

Benchmark within Your Chain

Retailers can improve execution in their stores by learning from parts

of their chains that are currently executing well. Our research shows that some

stores within a chain execute much better, and consistently so, than other stores.

Evidénc@that some stores are executing well serves as powerful evidence

to managers in retail companies that operational execution can be managed and

intptaved. This eyidence can be used to understand the drivers of poor execu-

tion anthcan also be used to motivate the stores that are lagging in execution.

Both Beta and Gamma shared the results of our statistical analysis widely

Resheir organizations. Understandably, the findings generated a lot of interest

not only among store managers, but also managers from merchandising and

human resources whose actions were shown by our analysis to impact a store’s

® ability to execute. Moreover, the wide dispersion within the same chain, where

“Yall the stores use the same information technology and have the same monetary

Jincentives, makes it clear that technology and incentives are not the drivers of

; F © inter-store differences.

CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL.43,NO.3 SPRING 2001 149

Thin dnnimant ia nutharizad far ies anhrber INUM CTDARIG intl Anril N49 Onanuinn ar nacting in an infrinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations Sip ey

Immediate Steps to Improving Operational Execution in Retailing  - RR, .

Retailers can take the following five steps to improve operation “execu

tion immediately. * .~

As a first step, retailers should measure performance along, dimens s of

operational execution that are important to their businesses. For exa , retail-

ers that are interested in improving inventory record inaccuracy shou sure

the absolute difference between system and actual inventory leyels at the SKU

Jevel. Similarly, those that are interested in managing misplaced SKUs should

measure the fraction of their stores’ assortment that is misplaced vithin the

store, Such measures, as noted earlier, can be derived fromilj si udits at the

stores, through sampling methods, or through cycle counting focedures.

Second, these measurements should be used to te - of the

problem. As noted earlier, it is valuable to be able to quantitfie costs associated

with poor execution. Managers in functions like merchandising, information

technology, marketing, and human resources—whose efforts are compromised

by poor execution or whose actions determine’ the, quality of execution in retail-

ing—are usually unaware of the magnitude,’ Oreven existence, of execution

problems. Store and DC personnel, onthe otherhand, ate often aware of exe-

cution problem but unaware of its impaebon the company.

Third, the measurements shouldjbe used to set up a process for continu-

ous process improvement. Similar to the approach taken with managing quality

in manufacturing,* retailersishould,set up processes for diagnosing the causes

of poor execution and identifying ways in which these causes can be overcome.

Fourth, retailers should derive advantages from the fact that they typi-

cally contro] hundreds or even thousands of stores, and can use the differences

in processes and performancesat these stores to understand how execution can

be improved,

Fifth, retailers can improve performance by using operational data for

decision m It istempting for some to argue that the execution problems

reported Here s ‘Ould logically lead us to avoid relying on POS and inventory

data for coo and supply chain planning. There are two flaws in this argu-

me né, Rotxrelying on such data for inventory management, as others have

imply infeasible in the long term, especially as leading retailers

nd Gamma are improving their ability to use such data. Two,

ing the data can expose problems in them and hence provide the company

with etus to improve execution. Both Beta and Gamma discovered their

execution problems when they attempted to use the data in their systems.

», Gamma, for example, found that the performance of its automatic replenish-

“ment systems was compromised because of inaccurate inventory records. Beta

/ had invested in computerized kiosks that allowed customers to find out if a cer-

~~ tain item was available at the store. The company began to investigate customer

argued,

150 CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL. 43,N©.3 SPRING 2001

Thin Anaimant ie nuthnrigad far ian anhs hu LAUR OTDARIA intil Anril N19 Canuing ay nactina ie an infvinnamant

Execution: The Missing Link in Retail Operations

complaints that items that the system showed as available at the store could

often not be found. Asa result, the company discovered the magnitude of mis

placed SKUs in its stores.

Conclusion

of BEC

It is important for retailers, at a minimum, to be aware of these problems

and the potential impact they may have on profitability. Moreover, as a Beta

executive pointed out, acknowledging the prevalence of weak execution would

make it less embarrassing for retailers to discuss these problems in public and

thus identify solutions jointly. Execution can be managed. Our data show that

some stores perform better than others year after year. The drivers of these dif-

ferences yield prescriptions to improve execution.

APPENDIX

Summary of Empirical Analysis,

Our conclusions on the drivers of inventory record inaccuracy and mis-

placed SKUs are based on regression analysis; a statistical technique that allows

us to explain the variation in a dependent variable using values of other vari-

ables. We use three regression models to derive our results, two applied to

Gamma data (for inveritory record imageuracy) and one applied to Beta (for mis-

placed SKUs). More details of ourtechnical analysis can be found in DeHoratius

and Raman"? and in Raman and Ton."