SOURCE: Expanding the Value of Coaching.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses how a leader, Alan, worked to involve his team members in the change process, leading to improved results.
KEYWORDS: team involvement, change management, leadership development, inclusion, validation
---

[Document: Expanding the Value of Coaching.doc]

Alan also decided to work on "ensuring involvement and inclusion" with his direct reports. Alan checked in with Phil and both agreed that these were worthwhile goals.

Involving Team Members

Our research on behavior change is clear. If leaders get feedback, follow-up and involve their co-workers in the change process, they get better. If they don't follow-up and involve their co-workers, they usually are not seen as improving.

As part of the coaching process, Alan religiously the had one-on-one discussions with each of his colleagues and direct reports about what he had learned in his initial feedback (as we described in previous chapters). He thanked them for their input, expressed gratitude for their involvement and positive comments, openly discussed what he wanted to change and asked them for their ideas on how he could do an even better job.

After the initial discussions with his direct reports, Alan made a minor modification in one of his goals. He decided that his direct reports wanted him to do a great job of "inclusion and validation". Boeing Commercial Aircraft was going through very turbulent times. Several of Alan’s team members wanted to make sure that he was "checking in" with them and validating that they were headed in the right direction during these changing times.

While I always recommend that my coaching clients follow-up with their key stakeholders to get ongoing ideas for improvement, Alan came up with a much better idea. He got his entire team involved! Not only did Alan pick key colleagues to connect with on a regular basis, so did everyone on this team. This expanded the benefit "reaching out" far beyond anything that Alan could do by himself. In fact Alan’s team established a matrix with ongoing process checks to ensure that everyone was "sticking with the plan". All members of Alan’s team talked about whom they were contacting and what they were learning on a regular basis. They shared information with each other to help improve cross-functional teamwork, synergy and cooperation.

In the area of ensuring inclusion and validation with direct reports, Alan developed an amazing discipline. He would consistently ask, "Are the any more ideas that we need to include?" and "Are there any more people that we need to include?" at the end of each major topic change or meeting. This gave everyone a chance to reflect and made sure that everyone had the opportunity to make a contribution.

Often in the meetings of high-level executive teams, there is an "outer ring" of people who may attend meetings. These are people who may report to team members and may be providing information on key topics that are going to be discussed. Not only did Alan reach out to make sure that his team members were included, he also reached out to ensure that everyone in the room was invited to participate.

Over the course of the year, I had follow-up discussions with Alan's direct reports. Not only did Alan pick an area for personal improvement, each one of his direct reports did as well. This way the process of change not only benefited Alan; it benefited everyone.

Near the end of our time together, a couple of his direct reports showed great maturity by telling Alan, "When we started on this process, I was a little critical of you for not being inclusive. In the last few months, you have been doing everything that you can do to include people. You have asked me for my input on a regular basis. I have to admit something. You weren't the problem in the first place. Sometimes I just wasn't assertive enough to say what I was thinking. It was easier for me to blame you than to take responsibility myself."

A Year Later

At the end of the coaching assignment, I had the opportunity to interview each of Alan's 15 direct reports and his 10 colleagues from across the company. They were asked to rate his increased effectiveness on each item on a "-5" to "+5" scale (with "0" indicating "no change"). Not surprisingly, his improvement scores were outstanding. 40% of all numerical responses were a "+5" and over 85% were a "+3" or above. No individual had a negative score on any item. I have seen hundreds of reports like this. These scores were ‘off the charts’ in terms of being positive.

In "reaching out across the company and building partnerships" both his direct reports and colleagues were extremely satisfied with his progress. They commented on his ongoing dedication to being a great team player. They noticed how he had "gone out of his way" in meetings, phone calls and e-mails to be a good partner.

In "ensuring that his team does a great job of reaching out and building partnerships", his scores were equally positive. Both groups commented on the ongoing process that he put in place with his team. In fact, some of his direct reports commented that their colleagues across the company had also started becoming better team players. (It is much easier to be helpful and supportive to someone else, if they are trying to be helpful and supportive to you!)

In "ensuring validation and inclusion" his direct report scores were not just positive; they were amazing! His fifteen direct reports had over 100 positive comments and nothing negative to say. They almost all talked about the value of his asking for input on an ongoing basis and including everyone who was involved in the decision.