SOURCE: Expanding the Value of Coaching.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Executive Coaching
SUMMARY: This case study shows how an executive expanded a coaching assignment to benefit his team and company.
KEYWORDS: executive coaching, leadership development, organizational change
---

[Document: Expanding the Value of Coaching.doc]

SCL Chapter 17 – Expanding the Value of Coaching

This real-life case study shows how an executive can expand a simple coaching assignment to benefit his team and the entire company. I hope the article also reinforces my observation that the most important factor in executive coaching is not the coach.  The importance of the coach pales in comparison to the importance of the person being coached. This case study shares the essence of my work in coaching Alan Mulally, who, as we discussed earlier, is widely-considered to be one of, if not the, greatest corporate leaders in this century.

When we first met, Alan was President and Chief Executive Officer of Boeing Commercial Aircraft.  In his storied career at Boeing, Alan had been involved in the design and delivery of every major aircraft.  Boeing Commercial Aircraft was a key division of Boeing Company and employed, at the time, over 40,000 people. The Boeing Company is one of the largest companies in the world and employed, at the time, over 100,000 people.

I had the opportunity to work with Alan as an executive coach for over a year. Although I am not sure how much Alan learned from me during this period, I learned a tremendous amount from him and from his team! I hope that the great work done by Alan and his team can give you a ideas that you can use, either as a coach or as a person being coached.

This real-life case study shows how an executive can expand a simple coaching assignment to benefit his team and the entire company.

Getting Started

As we have discussed throughout the book, my coaching process is somewhat unusual. My mission is to help successful leaders achieve positive change in behavior: for themselves, their people and their teams. I work with my clients and their managers to determine: 1) who are my client's key stakeholders and 2) what are the key behaviors that my client wants to change. The company pays me only after my client has achieved a positive change in key behaviors as determined by key stakeholders.

The project began when I met with Phil Condit, the CEO of the Boeing Company. Phil was clearly a "fan" of Alan’s. He let me know that Alan was a fantastic leader who had produced consistent results. He felt that the larger Boeing Company would benefit if Alan played an even greater role in reaching out across the company and building relationships with his colleagues in other divisions. Boeing, like many of my clients today, was striving to increase synergy across divisions and build more teamwork across the company.

When I first met Alan, I was amazed with his enthusiasm and love for his job. He was clearly in a place where he wanted to be. Alan was, justifiably, very proud of the great airplanes that Boeing produced and proud of the people who worked with him. Over the years, I have worked with over 150 major CEOs. I have met a lot of committed leaders. Alan was one of the most committed leaders I have ever met.

Alan liked the design of our coaching process. He saw it for exactly what it was, an excellent project management designed aimed at helping people.  As a top engineer, he grasped the concepts immediately. Alan developed a list of key stakeholders and called Phil to validate his list. He decided to work with me.  (This turned out to be one of the luckiest moments in my career.)

As we began, he assured me that this project was going to be a big success.  After about one hour of my explaining how the Stakeholder Centered Coaching process worked, Alan just smiled and said, “Marshall, I was responsible for building the Boeing 777 Aircraft.  That was really complicated!  This is pretty simple.  I think that I can handle this!”

Collecting Information

I conducted one-on-one confidential interviews with each of Alan’s pre-selected stakeholders. Both colleagues and direct reports agreed that Alan was brilliant, dedicated, hard working, high in integrity, great at achieving results, well organized and an amazing leader of people.

Alan’s peers agreed that the company would benefit if he expanded his role, reached out to them and formed cross-company partnerships designed to benefit Boeing.  His peers acknowledged his fantastic results in leading Boeing Commercial Aircraft and understood why the entire company could benefit from his expanded partnering.

Alan’s direct reports agreed that Alan, his team and the company would benefit if the Commercial Aircraft team played a larger role in reaching out across the company. They also wanted Alan to focus on making sure that everyone felt included. A couple mentioned that Alan was so focused on achieving his mission that he could (unintentionally) leave out people or ideas that were not on his "radar screen".

After I interviewed all of Alan’s stakeholders, the interview data was collected and summarized by topic, so that no individual could be identified. After reviewing the summary report of the interviews with Alan, he agreed that he wanted to work on "reaching out across the company and building partnerships with colleagues" as his personal goals. He also expanded the goal to include his entire team.

Alan also decided to work on "ensuring involvement and inclusion" with his direct reports. Alan checked in with Phil and both agreed that these were worthwhile goals.

Involving Team Members

Our research on behavior change is clear. If leaders get feedback, follow-up and involve their co-workers in the change process, they get better. If they don't follow-up and involve their co-workers, they usually are not seen as improving.