SOURCE: Expanding the Value of Coaching.doc
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses how Alan Mulally, a leader at Boeing, successfully developed his leadership skills and motivated his team through feedback, humility, and discipline.
KEYWORDS: leadership development, executive coaching, feedback and inclusion, motivation and teamwork
---

[Document: Expanding the Value of Coaching.doc]

In "ensuring validation and inclusion" his direct report scores were not just positive; they were amazing! His fifteen direct reports had over 100 positive comments and nothing negative to say. They almost all talked about the value of his asking for input on an ongoing basis and including everyone who was involved in the decision.

More than almost any company in the world, Boeing’s business was dramatically impacted by September 11 and its aftermath. This was an extremely hard year for Alan, his team and his company. Many of his team members noted how easy it would have been for Alan to "lose it" and not reach out to others during this tough time. He had every "excuse" not to put in the time. They were amazed at his ability to involve, inspire and motivate people when times were so tough. Some of the written comments were more than positive, they were moving.

Learning Points for Coaching

Alan Mulally has taught me many wonderful lessons.  One of most important lessons (that we have discussed earlier) is that by working with great people, I can see great results.  I can also learn a lot about leadership!  My old mentor, Dr. Paul Hersey, taught me a lesson that Alan Mulally validated.  Paul said, “The biggest room for growth is with people who are already great!  They are ones with incredible potential to do even more.”

During our time together at Boeing, Alan had greater external challenges and problems than almost any of the executives that I have coached. In spite of this, he achieved outstanding results in building relationships with his colleagues and being inclusive with his team. He didn't get better because I did anything special. In fact, I have put in much more time with people who have achieved much less. He reinforced an important lesson for me (as a coach) - only work with people who care!

If you are ever the person who is being coached, remember Alan’s great case study.  Never put the responsibility for your increased effectiveness on the coach. It is your life. Like a personal trainer, the coach can help you get in shape. You are the one that has to do the work.

Not only was Alan a model of ongoing dedication and commitment, so was his team. Every team member had a positive, "can do" attitude toward improving teamwork across Boeing. Alan's positive results were not just a reflection of his great work; they were a reflection of his team's great work.

True long-term change requires discipline over time and effective process management.

One of the great false assumptions in leadership development is, "if they understand, they will do". If this were true, everyone who understood the importance of going on a healthy diet and exercising would be in shape. Every executive that I meet is smart. In terms of behavior, they all understand what they should do.  Alan did it!  He had the courage to get honest feedback, the humility to reach out and ask for help and the discipline to do the hard work required to make it happen!

Alan established an ongoing process and discipline and "stuck with it". He managed a process. He made sure the follow-up discussions were scheduled. He had the discipline to ask, "Are there any people or ideas that we need to include?" over and over again. Alan worked with Carrie, a great executive assistant, who helped keep him and his team on track.  He was smart enough to get over any ego and to encourage his executive assistant to manage the process.

By involving team members and key stakeholders, the value of the coaching process can be increased exponentially.

Not only did Alan get better, everyone around Alan got better! His entire team was involved in the our coaching process. Everyone on his team reached out across the company to build partnerships and increase synergy. Everyone on his team picked personal "areas for improvement" and focused on getting better. Many of the members of Alan’s team later began to implement the same process with their own teams. In some cases, people in our divisions across the company began reaching out to Alan's team in a much more collaborative way.

Alan was given a simple challenge to change his own behavior and to increase his positive personal impact on Boeing. Through his effort at personal improvement and then his inclusion of his team, Alan ended up benefiting hundreds of people across Boeing.

After our time together, Alan Mulally, went on to lead one of the greatest turnarounds in US history at Boeing Commercial Aircraft.  When he called to leave Boeing, and serve as the CEO of Ford, he led an even greater turnaround.  In future chapters, we will share a few highlights of what he did at Ford and show why his ‘leader as facilitator’ model is so well suited for the leader of the future.