SOURCE: Expected Behaviour of Executives.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Retail Executive Behavior
SUMMARY: This text outlines the expected behavior and requirements of retail executives, including setting the pace, being knowledgeable, and regularly visiting stores.
KEYWORDS: retail executive, expected behavior, store visits, discipline, knowledge
---

Need to do a session on expected behaviour of executives - involve BNT, Sanity and

Virgin.

Things that have been concerning me with regards to achieving better

effectiveness as an executive.

One of the fundamental requirements of being a retail executive at Brazin is to

set the pace. Setting the pace can be broadly defined as leading the way in

every action, standard, discipline, rule, etc.

Not only to be doing the “right thing” but to be seen doing the “right thing”.

We need a skilled retail person searching for skilled retail people. The only way

they are able to be skilled is to be taught as the majority of those people who we

employ or chose to be retailers are under skilled people who are looking for a

“job” or a job that doesn’t involve any long term thought process but more

instinctive communication with people.

We need to be in stores where it happens to see that our strategic direction,

standards and disciplines are being adhered to and we can determine what

strategic directions we should be taking.

Again, in Brazin we require a disciplined concerted effort, to be armed with as

much knowledge as you can when you enter a store, spend time with an area

manager, state manager or national retail manager.

If you are not familiar with the sales reports, comps., gross profit margin, what's

selling and what's not, what's being promoted and what the events are, you

simply cannot be effective.

We need regular store visits, one night per week must be spent in stores and as

a minimum, every second Saturday and as a minimum every 6" Sunday.

For those of you who need to clean yourselves up, do it and for those executives

that oversee that rostering and the standards of the executives, you need to

ensure that this is happening.

In my experience, it is impossible to be an effective retail executive without that

expectation, commitment and intention.

As a final note, showing up and putting in long hours is not necessarily going to make

you, in your relative position, perform any better, it has to be done with discipline,

diligence and intelligence. But of course, if you are skilled executive, the more time that

you are putting in that is effective, the better the result will be