SOURCE: Five Ways to Learn Nothing from Your Customers Feedback.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific\2016.03 HFT - Customer Complaints
TOPIC: Customer Feedback Management
SUMMARY: The article discusses five common mistakes companies make in collecting and using customer feedback that prevent them from learning and improving.
KEYWORDS: customer feedback, feedback systems, learning from customers, feedback analysis, customer experience
---

CUSTOMERS

Five Ways to Learn Nothing

from Your Customers’

Feedback

by Rob Markey

DECEMBER 09, 2013

I have studied a lot of customer feedback systems in the 25 years I’ve spent working with

companies on customer strategy. Many of them leave me sad and befuddled. So many

companies make the same mistakes over and over.

The leaders of these companies seem to want to hear from their customers — that’s why

they spend so much money on elaborate “voice of the customer” and other feedback

systems. But the approach many of these companies take to implementing such systems

seems almost as if it were designed to ensure nobody in the organization will actually learn

anything from what they hear. And if employees don’t learn anything, how can they take

action to make things better?

If I were writing a “how-not-to” manual for customer feedback — a manual that would

guarantee your feedback system taught your employees nothing about how to delight

customers and earn their loyalty — here are the five rules it might include:

1. Aggregate the feedback into scores, percentages, and averages — and stop there. This

common mistake completely obscures any individual customer’s voice and prevents

employees from linking the feedback to a particular event, behavior, or action they can

remember. Yet there’s something irresistibly seductive about numbers that seem so

rigorously mathematical. “Congratulations! Customer satisfaction increased 0.431% this

quarter! Great job!” Of course, most companies try to figure out what drove the

improvements by breaking down each summary score into dozens of “drivers,” but the

typical result is that employees get lost in a sea of analysis and numbers. In fact, this

becomes much worse when scores decline. That’s when the analysis really gets

overwhelming.

2. Hold the feedback. Many companies distribute summaries of what they hear from

customers six, eight, or even 12 weeks later. This is a byproduct of the first rule because

turning customer feedback into statistics usually requires aggregating it for several weeks

in order to collect enough observations. All that analysis and reporting takes time to

assemble, too. How well do you remember each of the many conversations and

interactions you had six weeks ago? Chances are your employees don’t either — which

makes it awfully tough for them to remember what they did that might have contributed to

variations in their customers’ feedback.

3. Eliminate the human voice. How often have you taken a company’s survey because you

wanted to register your annoyance (or delight) with the company’s actions, only to

discover that none of the questions seemed like they really addressed the issue on your

mind? Too many companies ask customers to rate their performance on a predetermined

list of factors — typically offering many prompts covering every conceivable element of the

company’s product or service. Multiple-choice questions are convenient for your company

to process and analyze, but they impose a burden on your customers. More importantly,

they don’t give customers a chance to share their feedback in their own words. Do you

know better than your customers exactly what issues they face and how they should

describe them?

4. Ensure that there’s a lot at stake. If you want your employees to focus maniacally on

customers, what better way than to put money at stake, right? But tying people’s

compensation and promotion prospects to changes in your customer-satisfaction metric

doesn’t focus them on customers; it focuses them on a number. And, as I’ve discussed

before, that can lead to a lot of behaviors that might be maniacal but are not customer-

focused. More often than not it leads to begging customers for higher scores or

discouraging angry customers from providing feedback. It’s also likely to prompt debate

about the basis for the score every time employees or departments are off-track for

meeting their goals.

5. Never close the loop with customers. Historically, the vast majority of customer

feedback was anonymous. It was collected in a “market research mode,” which meant no

one could follow up with individual customers to address their issues directly. The flawed

logic behind this was built on a belief that customers would not share honest feedback

unless their identity was kept secret. That might be true in some circumstances, but in my

experience, it’s rare. Anonymity in customer feedback is, frankly, overrated. People want

to be heard. They want their feedback to be acknowledged. They want to know that the

time they invested sharing feedback meant something and was acted on. Closing the loop

is essential to building lasting customer relationships, and it is an invaluable opportunity to

dig more deeply into the details of what delighted or enraged them. It offers an

opportunity to begin digging into the root causes of customer satisfaction or dissatisfaction

to uncover policy problems, issues with product design, or other pesky issues that require

cross-functional collaboration.

Of course, no company intentionally follows this “how-not-to” rulebook. And yet, like me,

I bet you have seen at least one company that follows all five of these rules, and maybe

more.

The truth is, creating an organization that really listens to its customers — what many call a

customer-centric culture — is difficult. That’s why so many companies have moved from

traditional customer satisfaction approaches rooted in a “market research mode” to

customer feedback systems deeply integrated into daily operations. Real-time feedback

from “voice of the customer,” the Net Promoter SystemSM, or other feedback mechanisms

can deliver customer responses directly to the employees who need to hear them, soon

after they took the actions that generated them. This sort of closed-loop feedback makes it

easier to learn from experience. I dare say that a good deal of what accounts for the

popularity of these approaches is the frustration many leaders feel about how little their

employees have been learning from customers.

If you want employees to learn from customers, don’t follow the traditional approach to

customer satisfaction measurement. Make feedback a part of your daily operations. Deliver