SOURCE: Five Ways to Learn Nothing from Your Customers Feedback.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific\2016.03 HFT - Customer Complaints
TOPIC: Customer Feedback Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses how leaders can improve learning from customer feedback by making it a daily part of operations and focusing on learning rather than just measurement.
KEYWORDS: customer feedback, organizational learning, customer-centric, employee engagement, customer listening
---

popularity of these approaches is the frustration many leaders feel about how little their

employees have been learning from customers.

If you want employees to learn from customers, don’t follow the traditional approach to

customer satisfaction measurement. Make feedback a part of your daily operations. Deliver

the feedback directly to the employees who need to hear it. Focus your company’s

customer listening efforts not on measuring more precisely, but on learning more

effectively.

Rob Markey

is coauthor of the book The Ultimate Question 2.0: How Net Promoter Companies Thrive in a

Customer-Driven World (HBR Press). Markey is a partner and director in Bain & Company’s New York office and

leads the firm’s Global Customer Strategy and Marketing practice.

This article is about CUSTOMERS

 FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

Related Topics: CUSTOMER SERVICE

Comments

Leave a Comment

POST

12 COMMENTS

criticmania 2 years ago

Rob, great article. "Make feedback a part of your daily operations."

This is great advice and it makes me wonder when I send an email to the general email box, does anyone

ever read it? Do they actually internalize what I had to say? Most of the time, I dont even bother anymore.

But there are several businesses in the local DC are that are implementing a new anonymous texting

feedback service. Its real-time and direct to the manager/customer service rep. I saw the management

dashboard, its pretty amazing and an easy way to make feedback party of your daily operations, anywho

its called CriticMania: http://www.criticmania.com/

REPLY 0  0 

 JOIN THE CONVERSATION

POSTING GUIDELINES

We hope the conversations that take place on HBR.org will be energetic, constructive, and thought-provoking. To comment, readers must

sign in or register. And to ensure the quality of the discussion, our moderating team will review all comments and may edit them for clarity,

length, and relevance. Comments that are overly promotional, mean-spirited, or off-topic may be deleted per the moderators' judgment.

All postings become the property of Harvard Business Publishing.