SOURCE: Fresh Eyes, Fresh Approach.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Process Improvement
SUMMARY: This document outlines a collaborative approach to analyze and improve business processes by engaging the warehouse team and department heads.
KEYWORDS: process analysis, continuous improvement, waste reduction, team collaboration, business process
---

Get together the Warehouse Team and brief them.

Emphasize not about finding fault or blame.

Introduce Department Heads to all the DC Team and Team Leaders + Participants together.

Pen + Writing Pad + Clip Board.

Explain the exercise process – opportunities for improvement – culture & expectation of continuous improvement.

Have fun every day.

Pick any process you want to analyze (need a list of all processes).

Anything you like – we are here to have fun - anything you want to understand where there might be opportunities for improvement.

Pick processes and match Team Leader.

Map out every stage the product went through working from the Customer*.

(*Define Customer, internal & external)

This can be tricky – Primary & Secondary.

Who is the real Customer i.e. that forms the basis for why the process is being completed?

Get started – have fun – no blame/fault – don’t try to solve anything.

Note stuff like:

The time it takes for each stage of the process

The work involved

The levels of inventory

How many times the product is touched?

What is good & bad about this process?

What efficiencies did I notice?

Is this process documented/written – or just know?

Follow the process from start to end.

Come back when you are done and we will talk about it.

Reminder – no blame – no need to be defensive.

This is an exercise to learn about Waste and Processes Inefficiency that constantly shows up in all businesses and departments. Why constantly “weeding the garden” is our responsibility.

What should we do with these learnings?

Hand out BBRC – 2 pages

A simple approach to drive change + improvement.

Why should we do “fresh eyes”, “fresh approach”.