SOURCE: Get Back In The Game.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the company's history of success through various economic downturns and the need for the inner circle to help address the current underperformance of the brand.
KEYWORDS: business strategy, leadership, performance, economic downturns, growth
---

Get Back In The Game

| have titled this session ‘Get Back Into the Game’

i wanted to have this session for 2 reasons

1) To speak directly and candidly to each of you and

2) Because | need your help.

Each of you has been invited to this session for 2 reasons:

1) Because you are the inner circle, the opinion makers, the

leaders and influencers of your brand.

You are the ‘go to team’ and | thank you for that. And

2) Your brand is under preforming, we are underperforming.

As a result there are some things that need to be said and

each of you must hear it and decide what to do, decide to be

a part of the solution.

| want to start with some history and a little perspective:

This is my 32" year since we opened that first store in

Pakenham. Each and every year, we have grown and gone

rapidly forward. We have grown in size and effectiveness; we

have steadily and continuously beaten all our competition to

became leaders in our categories, we have become leaders in

the wider retail world and business community generally.

Importantly we have grown thru every down turn and every

recession that has been thrown at us most particularly:

e 1987: Black Tuesday (In Australia — black Monday rest

of world) — global markets experienced most spectacular

single day losses since before WW1

e 1990: Recession — (sparked by black Tuesday). This was

the worst banking collapse since the Great Depression

spread out over the late 1980s and early 1990s

e 2000-01: Dotcom Bubble and the Enron Debacle -

dotcom bubble burst, Internet-based companies were

abandoned and their assets auctioned off. Enron

spiraled into bankruptcy.

| can tell you we grew thru those periods

We employed lots more people.

We created better jobs and job security.

We created better lives.

In that time | watched 100’s of careers develop including my

own.

We produced increased profits thru those periods.

In short and simplly......... We have achieved great success....

thru good conditions and bad.

We did not get there by driving safely down the middle of the

road.

We did not get there by being like everyone else.

We did not get there by thinking like everybody else.

We didn’t get there by being influenced by headlines.

We didn’t get there by watching what our competitors where

doing.

We did not get there by thinking somebody else was setting

our agenda or in control of our growth

We became BBRC by being different, in lots of ways radically

different.

| believe the sharper that difference, the greater our

advantage is.

My intention today is to remind everybody of what great is

and what it is not. Where we really stand and what our

reality is and ask you to take action and change your

perspective

NICO CONTINUES

WESTFIELD SLIDES

The vast bulk of our declining results are not because of the:

e Economy

e Recession

e Tough retail environment

e Online sales

e The dollar

e Worst retail in 30 years

e Greece

e The Euro

e The 2 speed economy

e Politics

® competition

These are excuses, excuses that | today more and more hear,

see, and feel all around me. They are sneaking into your

brands and minds.

e Our Attitude

e The Culture and spirit

e Our Product

e Our Presentation

e Our Standards and disciplines

These have always been and will always be the determining

factor of our growth and success ......or our decline.

We are in control of our destinies.....nobody else

| believe we are currently not different, moreover, we are

becoming ordinary and | have great fears — that we are losing

our number one status. And | know nobody in this room took

their job or joined BBRC to be ordinary or 2" best.

| hope you can also agree that everyone in this room, all of

us, is accountable to ensure we continue to be competitively

better.

So what do we do what is your part to play, what do you do

now? Well it’s this — from this moment on, decide to stop

being a victim, stop being a victim to outside events and

headlines.

Your call to action is to break the victim loop and it is there

it’s in our brands. Break it wherever you find it and most

especially if you find it in yourself.

There is too much indifference.

Indifference can be tempting — more than that it is

seductive to our teams.

It is so much easier to look away; it is so much easier not to

interrupt our day, our work or our plans

— Indifference is not a response

— Indifference is not a beginning, it’s an end.

It is business to be surrounded by issues, breaches, errors,

mistakes, poor judgement when these things happen

e WE cannot be indifferent

° We must respond, we must take action.

Decide you are no longer a victim of anything — as your own

character, position and your leadership role demands.

Ensure your attitude is:

How do | do better?

How can we improve?

How do | make the difference needed?

What can | do?

What action will | take?

If something can be better, then it should be better.

If | do wrong | will fix it

If | see wrong, | will right it.

Here is something | want to read to you

Are these crazy times? You bet they are. There will

always be crazy times.

So stop thinking about how crazy the times are, and

start thinking about what the crazy times demand.

There has never been a worse time for business as

usual. Business as usual is sure to fail, sure to

disappoint, sure to numb our dreams. That's why there

has never been a better time for the new. Your

competitors are too afraid to spend money on new

productivity tools. Your bankers have no idea where