SOURCE: Get Back In The Game.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Transformation
SUMMARY: This document encourages a mindset shift towards optimism, action, and excellence to overcome challenges and achieve greatness.
KEYWORDS: business transformation, innovation, leadership, optimism, success
---

usual. Business as usual is sure to fail, sure to

disappoint, sure to numb our dreams. That's why there

has never been a better time for the new. Your

competitors are too afraid to spend money on new

productivity tools. Your bankers have no idea where

they can safely invest. Your potential employees are

desperately looking for something exciting, something

they feel passionate about, something they can

genuinely engage in and engage with.

You get to make a choice. You can remake that choice

every day, in fact. It's never too late to choose

optimism, to choose action, to choose excellence. The

best thing is that it only takes a moment -- just one

second -- to decide.

Before you finish this paragraph, you have the power

to change everything that's to come. And you can do

that by asking yourself (and your colleagues) the one

question that every organization and every individual

needs to ask today: Why not be great?

That was written 10 years ago in the dot com crises

As | bring this session to an end, | want to remind you all that

you were invited to this session because you are the inner

circle, the leaders and influencers of your brand.

All of us in this room are achievers and have shown

capability, motivation and ambition to be the best, to do the

best.

Most of you have been a big part of our past great success. |

am immensely proud of that success, our growth and our

winning attitude and culture.

| am asking you to reject the idea and the attitude that there

are any influences other than what we decide to do and how

we decide to do it........ Any other thought | am asking you to

kill stone cold dead! We are in control.

DON SODERQUIST SLIDE page 27

At the end of this University take back to your brand a

different approach and attitude to what can be done and

what you will do....... No excuses

No blame

No playing victim.

Eradicate in yourself and others any victim like attitudes and

approach to our issues and opportunities.

Get back in the game.

| know that when you do that we will quickly recover our lost

ground and market leading position.

After all that’s your job to do, that’s what | need your help on

Over to Jackie, she must come in now.