SOURCE: Good to Great Framework.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Frameworks
SUMMARY: This text introduces the Good to Great framework developed by Jim Collins, a diagnostic tool for building great organizations through disciplined people, thought, action, and results.
KEYWORDS: Good to Great, Business framework, Organizational development, Collins, Disciplined approach
---

GOOD TO GREAT™ DIAGNOSTIC TOOL DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 100 © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

OVERVIEW OF THE GOOD TO GREAT™ FRAMEWORK

A great organization is one that makes a distinctive impact and delivers superior performance over a long period of time.

For a business, performance principally means financial results, specifically return on invested capital. For a social sector

organization, on the other hand, performance must be assessed first and foremost relative to the organization's mission,

not its financial results, Notice that by this definition that you do not need to be big to be great. Your distinctive impact

can be on a local or small community, and your performance can be superior and long-lasting without becoming large.

You might choose to grow in order to have a wider impact and to better deliver on your mission, but it is important to

understand that big does not equal great, and great does not equal big.

We derived these principles from a matched-pair research method, wherein we systematically analyzed companies that at-

tained greatness during a particular phase of their histories in contrast to carefully selected comparison companies-——com-

panies facing nearly identical circurnstances—that failed to attain greatness during the exact same historical eras.

The Good-to-Great Matched Pair Research Method

Goad-to-Great Cases

‘

Vehat principles explain the difference?

Inflection Point |

Matched-pair Selectian

(Comparable cases at the

moment of inflection)

Goad, not Great

Good, not Great

omparizon Cases

GOOD TO GREAT™ DIAGNOSTIC TOOL DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.06 © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

GOOD TO GREAT™ CONCEPT SUMMARY

Our research shows that building a great organization proceeds in four basic stages; each stage consists of two

fundamental principles:

STAGE 1: DISCIPLINED PEOPLE

Level 5 Leadership. Level 5 leaders are ambitious first and foremost for the cause, the organization, the work—not them-

selves—and they have the fierce resolve to do whatever it takes to make good on that ambition. A Level 5 leader displays

a paradoxical blend of personal humility and professional will.

First Who Then What. Those who build great organizations make sure they have the right people on the bus, the

wrong people off the bus, and the right people in the key seats before they figure out where to drive the bus. They

always think first about “who” and then about what.

STAGE 2: DISCIPLINED THOUGHT

Confront the Brutal Facts—the Stockdale Paradox, Retain unwavering faith that you can and will prevail in the end,

regardless of the difficulties, AND AT THE SAME TIME have the discipline to confront the most brutal facts of your current

reality, whatever they might be.

The Hedgehog Concept. Greatness comes about by a series of good decisions consistent with a simple, coherent con-

cept—a “Hedgehog Concept.” The Hedgehog Concept is an operating model that reflects understanding of three

intersecting circles: what you can be the best in the world at, what you are deeply passionate about, and what best drives

your economic or resource engine.

STAGE 3: DISCLIPINED ACTION

Culture of Discipline. Disciplined people who engage in disciplined thought and who take disciplined action—operat-

ing with freedom within a framework of responsibilities—this is the cornerstone of a culture that creates greatness. Ina

culture of discipline, people do not have “jobs;" they have responsibilities.

The Flywheel. In building greatness, there is no single defining action, no grand program, no one killer innovation, no

solitary lucky break, no miracle moment. Rather, the process resembles relentlessly pushing a giant heavy flywheel in one

direction, turn upon turn, building momentum until a point of breakthrough, and beyond.

STAGE 4: BUILDING GREATNESS TO LAST

Clock Building, Not Time Telling. Build an organization that can adapt through multiple generations of leaders; the exact

opposite of being built around a single great leader, great idea or specific program. Build catalytic mechanisms to stimu-

late progress, rather than acting as a charismatic force of personality to drive progress.

Preserve the Core and Stimulate Progress. Adherence to core values combined with a willingness to challenge and change

everything except those core values—keeping clear the distinction between “what we stand for” (which should never

change) and “how we do things” (which should never stop changing). Great companies have a purpose—a reason for

being—that goes far beyond just making money, and they translate this purpose into BHAGs (Big Hairy Audacious Goals)

to stimulate progress.

LEVEL 5 LEADERSHIP

Level 5 Leadership has two primary components:

1) Put Level 5 leaders in the most powerful seats.

2) Create a Level 5 leadership culture.

Grade Range:

A= We exemplify this trait exceptionally well—there is limited room for improvernent

B = We often exemplify this trait, but we also have room for improvement.

C= We show some evidence of this trait, but our record is spotty.

D= There is little evidence that we exemplify this trait, and we have obvious contradictions.

F = We operate almost entirely contrary to this trait.

Level 5 Leadership—Diagnostic, Part 1: Grade:

Put Level 5 leaders in the most powerful seats. (A, B, C, D, F)

The leaders who sit in the most powerful seats in our organization are ambitious first and foremost for

the cause, the organization, the work—not themselves—and they have an iron will to do whatever it

takes to make good on that ambition.

The leaders who sit in the most powerful seats in our organization display an ever-improving track record

of making Level 5 decisions—decisions that prove best for the long-term greatness of the company and

its work.

The leaders who sit in the most powerful seats in our organization practice the window and the mirror,

They point out the window to people and factors other than themselves to give credit for success, When

confronted with failures, they look in the mirror and say, “| am responsible.”

While some members of the leadership team might be charismatic, this is not the primary source of their

effectiveness, They inspire others primarily via inspired standards—excellence, hard work, sacrifice, and