SOURCE: Good to Great Framework.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: This text discusses the characteristics of Level 5 leadership, including taking responsibility for failures, inspiring through standards, and cultivating a culture of substance over style.
KEYWORDS: Level 5 Leadership, Leadership Effectiveness, Leadership Culture
---

confronted with failures, they look in the mirror and say, “| am responsible.”

While some members of the leadership team might be charismatic, this is not the primary source of their

effectiveness, They inspire others primarily via inspired standards—excellence, hard work, sacrifice, and

integrity—not with an inspiring public persona.

Level 5 Leadership-—-Diagnostic, Part 2: Grade:

Create a Level 5 leadership culture. (A, B, C, D, F)

Our culture values substance over style, integrity aver personality, and results over intentions,

Members of our leadership team dialogue and debate in search of the best answer (not for the sake of

looking smart or winning a point) up until the point of decision.

Once a decision is made, members of the team unify behind the decision to ensure success—even those

who disagreed with the decision.

We cultivate leaders who have all five levels in the Level 5 hierarchy, as laid out in Good to Great: highly

capable individuals, strong contributing team members, competent managers, effective leaders, and

Level 5 executives.

GOOD TO GREAT™ DIAGNOSTIC TOOL DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.0¢ © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

FIRST WHO, THEN WHAT

First Who has four primary components:

1) Get the right people on the bus.

2) Get the right people in the right seats.

3) Get the wrong people off the bus.

4) Put who before what.

Grade Range:

A= We exemplify this trait exceptionally well—there is limited room for improvement.

B = We often exemplify this trait, but we also have room for improvement.

C= We show some evidence of this trait, but our record is spotty.

Ds There is little evidence that we exemplify this trait, and we have obvious contradictions.

F = We operate almost entirely contrary to this trait.

First Who—Diagnostic, Part 1: Grade:

Get the right people on the bus. (A, B, C, D, F)

We are rigorous in our selection process for getting new people on the bus.

We invest substantial time in evaluating each candidate, making systematic use of at least three

evaluation devices, e.g., interviews, references, examination of background, meeting members of the

family, testing,

When in doubt, we do not bring the person on the bus; we have the discipline to let a seat go unfilled—

taking on extra work as needed—until we have found the right person. If we are in a “tenure” system,

we do not grant tenure unless we are 100% certain the individual is an exceptional permanent member,

We do an exceptional job of retaining the right people on the bus; we perpetuate our good decisions

for a very long time.

First Who—Diagnostic, Part 2: Grade:

Get the right people in the right seats. (A, B, C, D, F)

We have 100% of the key seats on the bus filled with the right people. This doesn’t mean 100% of ALL

seats have the right people, but 100% of the key seats. (Note: this will likely provoke discussion as to

what are the key seats.)

When we think we have a potential “wrong who,” we first give the person the benefit of the doubt

that perhaps we have just put him or her in the wrong seat.

Whenever possible, we give a person the chance to prove himself or herself in a different seat, before

we draw the conclusion that he or she is a wrong person on the bus.

First Who-—~Diagnostic, Part 3: Grade:

Get the wrong people off the bus. {A, B, C, D, F}

When we know we need to make a people change—after we have given the individual full opportunity

to demonstrate that he or she might be the right person—we deal with the issue.

When we correct a people selection mistake, we are rigorous in the decision, but not ruthless in the

implementation. We help people exit with dignity and grace so that, later, the vast majority of people

who have left our bus have positive feelings about our organization.

We autopsy our hiring mistakes, applying the lessons systematically to future hiring decisions.

GOOD TO GREAT™ DIAGNOSTIC TOOL DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00 © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

FIRST WHO, THEN WHAT continuep

First Who—Diagnostic, Part 4: Grade:

Put who before what. (A, B, C, D, F)

When confronted with any problem or opportunity, our natural habit is to translate the decision from a

"what" question (“what should we do?”) into a "who" decision ("who would be the right person to

take responsibility for this?”),

A significant portion of our time is spent in one form or another with people decisions: getting the right

people on the bus, getting the right people in the right seats, getting the wrong people off the bus,

developing people into bigger seats, planning for succession, etc.

We have a disciplined, systematic process for improving our success at getting the right people on the bus.

With each passing year, the percentage of people decisions that turn out good versus bad continues to rise,

GOOD TO GREAT™ DIAGNOSTIC TOOL DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00 @ 2006 BY JIM COLLINS ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

CONFRONT THE BRUTAL FACTS

Confront the Brutal Facts has three primary components:

1) Create a climate where the truth is heard

2) Get the data.

3) Embrace the Stockdale Paradox.

Grade Range:

A= We exemplify this trait exceptionally well—there is limited room for improvement

B = We often exemplify this trait, but we also have room for improvement.

C = We show some evidence of this trait, but our record is spotty. *&

D= There is little evidence that we exemplify this trait, and we have obvious contradictions.

F = We operate almost entirely contrary to this trait.

Confront the Brutal Facts, Part 1 Grade:

Create a climate where the truth is heard. (A, 8, C, D, F)

When things go wrong, we conduct "autopsies without blame”-—~we seek to understand underlying

root causes, rather than pin the blame on an individual,