SOURCE: Good to Great Framework.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of focusing on the right opportunities, building a culture of discipline, and managing systems rather than people to achieve long-term success.
KEYWORDS: strategic focus, organizational culture, operational discipline, self-motivated employees, system management
---

Concept. A “once-in-a-lifetime opportunity” is irrelevant if it is the wrong opportunity.

We never lurch after growth for growth’s sake; we grow consistently within our Hedgehog, period,

We are willing to jettison our core competencies and largest lines of business if we cannot be the best in

the world at them.

We make excellent use of “Stop Doing” lists.

Culture of Discipline, Part 2: Grade:

Build a system of freedom and responsibility within a framework. (A, 8, C, D, F)

A cornerstone of our culture is the idea of freedom and responsibility within a framework: so long as

people stay within the wide bounds of the framework, they have an immense amount of freedom to

innovate, achieve and contribute.

People in our system understand that they do not have “jobs"— they have responsibilities-~-and they

grasp the distinction between just doing assigned tasks and taking full responsibility for the results

of their efforts.

We can answer the question for each significant activity, “Who is the one person responsible?”

Our culture is a productive blend of dualities, such as: freedom and responsibility, discipline and

entrepreneurship, rigor and creativity, financial control and innovative spirit, focused Hedgehog and

adaptable. We see no contradictions in cultural duality; we exemplify the “Genius of the And,”

Culture of Discipline, Part 3: Grade:

Manage the system, not the people. (A, B, C, D, F)

We do not spend a lot of time motivating our people; we recruit self-motivated people, and provide an

environment that does not de-motivate them.

We do not spend a lot of time disciplining our people; we recruit self-disciplined people, and then man-

age the system, not the people,

We avoid bureaucracy that imposes unnecessary rules on self-motivated and self-disciplined people; if we

have the right people, they don’t need a fot of rules.

GOOD TO GREAT™ DIAGNOSTIC TOOL DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00 © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

A CULTURE OF DISCIPLINE continueo

Culture of Discipline, Part 4: Grade:

Practice extreme commitment. (A, B, C, D, F)

In our culture, people go to extremes to fulfill their commitments and deliver results, bordering at times

on fanaticism.

Words like “disciplined,” "rigorous," “dogged,” “determined,” “diligent,” “precise,” “systematic,”

“methodical,” “workmanlike,” “demanding,” “consistent,” “focused,” “accountable” and

“responsible” describe us well.

We are equally disciplined in good times as in bad times. We never allow prosperity to make us complacent.

GOOD TO GREAT™ DIAGNOSTIC TGOL DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 100 @ 2006 BY JIM COLLINS ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

THE FLYWHEEL, NOT THE DOOM LOOP

The Flywheel has four primary components:

1) Build cumulative momentum.

2) Be relentlessly consistent over time.

3) Create alignment by results, not hoopla.

4) Avoid the Doom Loop,

Grade Range:

A= We exemplify this trait exceptionally well—there is limited room for improvement.

B = We often exemplify this trait, but we also have room for improvement.

C = We show some evidence of this trait, but our record is spotty.

D= There is little evidence that we exemplify this trait, and we have obvious contradictions,

F = We operate almost entirely contrary to this trait.

The Flywheel, Part 1: Grade:

Build cumulative momentum. (A, B, C, D, F)

We understand that building greatness never happens in one fell swoop—that there is no single defin-

ing action, no one killer innovation, no seminal acquisition, no breakthrough technology, no savior on a

white horse, no wrenching revolution that can by itself bring about sustained greatness.

We build greatness by a cumulative process—step by step, action by action, day by day, week by week,

year by year—turn by turn of the flywheel.

While some pushes on the flywheel are bigger than others, no single push by itself accounts for the

majority of our momentum; we understand that it requires hundreds of additional pushes to turn any big

decision into a successful decision.

The Flywheel, Part 2: Grade:

Be relentlessly consistent over time. (A, B, C, DB, F)

When examining our behavior, one word that comes to mind is consistency—consistency of purpose,

consistency of values, consistency of Hedgehog, consistency of high standards, consistency of people,

and so forth,

Our success derives from a whole bunch of interlocking pieces that reinforce one another, consistently

applied over a long period of time.

We have immense flexibility and we adapt well to change—but always within the context of a coherent

Hedgehog Concept.

GOOD TO GREAT™ DIAGNOSTIC TOOL DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00 © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

THE FLYWHEEL, NOT THE DOOM LOOP continuo

The Flywheel, Part 3: Grade:

Create alignment by results, not hoopla. (A, B, C, D, F)

We tend to undersell ourselves, and then delightfully surprise by blowing people away with our

actual results.

We never pump up our reputation with a sales job (“buy into our future”) to compensate for

lack of results.

We do not “sell visions” to fire people up or take a programmatic or hoopla-laden approach to

alignment.

We understand that when people begin to feel the magic of momentum—when they feel the flywheel

increase speed—is when most people line up to throw their shoulders against the wheel and push,

The Flywheel, Part 4: Grade:

Avoid the Doom Loop. (A, B, C, D, F)

We do not succumb to the lazy, undisciplined search for a single silver bullet solution—be it a new

program, a motivational event, a sexy technology, a big acquisition, or a savior CEO.

We do not build from 0 to 100 rotations in the flywheel, then stop, lurch in a new direction, lose our

momentum and start anew. We have the discipline to turn the flywheel from 0 to 100, 100 toa

thousand, a thousand to a million, a million to a billion turns—and to not go 0 to 100, 0 to 100,

0 to 100, lurching from new program to new program.

If a new technology advances our Hedgehog, we become a pioneer in its application; if a new