SOURCE: Good to Great Framework.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Organizational Change Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of preserving core values while continuously improving and adapting to change in a business context.
KEYWORDS: core values, continuous improvement, organizational change, progress, flywheel vs. doom loop
---

thousand, a thousand to a million, a million to a billion turns—and to not go 0 to 100, 0 to 100,

0 to 100, lurching from new program to new program.

If a new technology advances our Hedgehog, we become a pioneer in its application; if a new

technology does not fit, we don’t worry too much about it—and we certainly don’t lurch about in

fearful frantic reaction.

When we look at the Flywheel versus the Doom Loop side-by-side table on pages 183-184 in chapter

8 of Good to Great, we are characterized much more by the flywheel side of the ledger than the

doom loop side.

GOOD TO GREAT™ DIAGNOSTIC TOOL DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00 © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

PRESERVE THE CORE / STIMULATE PROGRESS

Preserve the Core/Stimulate Progress has four primary components:

1) Articulate a core guiding philosophy—core values and a reason for being that goes beyond

just making money.

2) Change and improve everything except your core values.

3) Create a passionate culture that preserves the core and stimulates progress.

4) Achieve BHAGs—hig hairy audacious goals.

Grade Range:

A= We exemplify this trait exceptionally well—there is limited room for improvement.

B = We often exemplify this trait, but we also have room for improvement.

C= We show some evidence of this trait, but our record is spotty.

D= There is little evidence that we exemplify this trait, and we have obvious contradictions,

F = We operate almost entirely contrary to this trait.

Preserve the Core / Stimulate Progress, Part 1: Grade:

Articulate a core guiding philosophy—core values and a reason for being that goes beyond just (A, B, C, D, F)

making money.

We have a passionately-held set of core values that we adhere to, no matter how much the world

changes around us.

We are honest about what our core values actually are. We don't worry about what outsiders think of

our values; they are for internal guidance, not marketing.

If these core values were to become a competitive disadvantage at some point in the future, we

would still hold them.

We have an enduring purpose or mission—a reason for being—that that goes beyond just

making money.

Preserve the Core / Stimulate Progress, Part 2: Grade:

Change and improve everything except your core values, (A, B, C, D, F)

We practice the “Genius of the And"-—continuity and change, values and results, cohesion and autono-

my, endurance and urgency, and so forth

We are clear on the difference between our core values (which should never change) as distinct from our

operating practices, cultural norms, goals, strategies, and tactics (which should remain open for change).

While we hold our core values constant, we stimulate Progress--change, improvement, innovation,

and renewal—in the operating practices, cultural norms, goals, strategies and tactics that surround

the core values.

We understand that if our list of core values is too long, we are very likely confusing core values with

practices and aspirations; we have no more than six values that we consider to be truly core.

'

GOOD TO GREAT™ DIAGNOSTIC TOOL DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00 © 2006 BY JIM COLLINS ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

PRESERVE THE CORE / STIMULATE PROGRESS continueD

Preserve the Core / Stimulate Progress, Part 3: Grade:

Create a passionate culture that preserves the core and stimulates progress, {A, B, C, D, F)

We have built a culture that so consistently reinforces our core values that those who do not share the

values are ejected like a virus, or they become so uncomfortable that they self-eject.

We promote leaders who live the core values; those who repeatedly breach our values never make it far

or last long in our culture.

We are so consistent with our values that if every conversation, every decision, every action were

videotaped, people watching the tape would be astounded by our consistency and passion for living

to our values,

No matter how much we achieve, we never feel comfortable or feel that we've arrived, We're

obsessively focused on our shortcomings—on what we could do better; the term ” productively

neurotic” describes our culture well.

Preserve the Core / Stimulate Progress, Part 4: Grade:

Achieve BHAGs—big hairy audacious goals. (A, B, C, D, F)

We have a remarkable success rate at achieving our BHAGs (big hairy audacious goals); we rarely fall

short of the extreme standards of achievement we set for ourselves.

We understand the difference between a 10-to-25 year BHAG—which is like a huge mountain to climb—

and 5-year intermediate objectives, which are like base camps on the way to the top of the mountain.

We have a 10-to-25 year BHAG in place, which we have broken down into base-camp objectives.

Our BHAGs are set with understanding, not bravado—in direct alignment with the three circles of the

Hedgehog Concept.

GOOD TO GREAT™ DIAGNOSTIC TOOL DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00 2006 BY JIM COLLINS ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

CLOCK-BUILDING, NOT TIME TELLING

Clock-building has three primary components:

1) Build a system that can be great beyond any single leader or great idea.

2) Create catalytic mechanisms.

3) Manage for the quarter century.

Grade Range:

A= We exemplify this trait exceptionally well—there is limited room for improvement.

B = We often exemplify this trait, but we also have room for improvement.

C= We show some evidence of this trait, but our record is spotty.

D= There is little evidence that we exemplify this trait, and we have obvious contradictions.

F = We operate almost entirely contrary to this trait.

Clock-building, Part 1: Grade:

Build a system that can be great beyond any single leader or great idea. (A, B, C, D, F)

Our chief leader is a clock-builder, not just a time teller-—he or she is building a system that can prosper

beyond his or her presence.

Our chief leader is building a great team of strong individuals, rather than acting as a “genius with

1000 helpers” on whom everything depends.