SOURCE: Good to Great Framework.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership Succession Planning
SUMMARY: The text discusses building a disciplined, long-term focused organization that can thrive beyond the presence of any single leader.
KEYWORDS: clock-building, leadership succession, culture of discipline, catalytic mechanisms, long-term management
---

Our chief leader is a clock-builder, not just a time teller-—he or she is building a system that can prosper

beyond his or her presence.

Our chief leader is building a great team of strong individuals, rather than acting as a “genius with

1000 helpers” on whom everything depends.

If any individual leader were to disappear tomorrow, our discipline would remain as strong as ever; we

have built a culture of discipline, as distinct from having a larger-than-life disciplinarian at the helm.

We hold our leaders accountable for the success of their successors.

Clock-building, Part 2: Grade:

Create catalytic mechanisms. (A, B, C, D, F)

We have red flag mechanisms that bring brutal facts to our attention, and force us to confront those

facts, no matter how uncomfortable.

We set in place powerful mechanisms that stimulate progress—mechanisms designed to force us to

continually improve.

Our mechanisms are designed so that people who hold power—and who might want to ignore the

brutal facts—cannot easily subvert the mechanisms.

We have a mechanism analogous to “the council” as described in chapter 5 of Good to Great, which

plays a key role in guiding our decisions.

Clack-building, Part 3: Grade:

Manage for the quarter century. {A, B, C, D, F)

No matter what short term pressures we face—Wall Street, financial distress, No Child Left Behind,

pressure for a winning season—we build for long-term greatness; we manage not for the quarter, but

for the quarter century.

Our leaders measure their own success as much by how their organization performs in the hands of a

successor as by how it fares during their own personal reign.

GOOD TO GREAT™ DIAGNOSTIC TOOL DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00 © 2005 BY JIM COLLINS ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

OUTPUT VARIABLES: HOW GREAT IS YOUR COMPANY?

Grade Range:

A= We exemplify this trait exceptionally well—there is limited room for improvement.

B = We often exemplify this trait, but we also have room for improvement.

C= We show some evidence of this trait, but our record is spotty.

D= There is little evidence that we exemplify this trait, and we have obvious contradictions.

F = We operate almost entirely contrary to this trait.

Delivers Superior Performance: Grade:

(A, B, C, D, F)

In business, performance is defined by financial returns and achievement of corporate purpose. In the

social sectors, performance is defined by results and efficiency in delivering on the social mission.

Makes a Distinctive Impact: Grade:

(A, B, C, D, F)

The organization makes such a unique contribution to the communities it touches and does its work with

such unadulterated excellence that if it were to disappear, it would leave a hole that could not easily be

filled by any other institution on the planet.

Achieves Lasting Endurance: Grade:

(A, B, C, D, F)

The organization can deliver exceptional results over a long period of time, beyond any single leader,

great idea, market cycle, or well-funded program. When hit with setbacks, it bounces back even stronger

than before,

GOOD TO GREAT™ DIAGNOSTIC TOOL DEVELOPED BY JIM COLLINS. RELEASE VERSION 1.00 © 2006 GY JIM COLLINS ALL RIGHTS RESERVED