SOURCE: Great Teams.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Employee Management and Culture
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of communication, employee empowerment, continuous improvement, and maintaining a strong organizational culture.
KEYWORDS: employee engagement, organizational culture, continuous improvement, leadership, team management
---

other secret, keep telling everybody what is going on, what is it that is

expected , what is important, throw in some education and inspiration

and find lots of ways to do that

Give people a go, particularly in the early days, we throw people in,

rewarded on promotion not money, if they made it then the result had

double impact on morale, team spirit, culture.

Youth is a great thing and capable of huge things if you have the time to

invest in them

Lead from the front...get in and do what they are doing. Walk in their

shoes awhile and you will be amazed what you will learn,

Always lead from the front, and always set the example. This way you

keep the standards and the bench mark high. Leaders don’t have time

off; they don’t have personal phone calls etc.

More important to be on board at the times people don’t expect you to

be Sat Sun etc

The importance of the unexpected visit.

- The importance of terminating poor performers and the effect that has

&

on the rest of the team.

Everything must work around the culture, it doesn’t matter how good

someone is if they don’t fit the culture of your organization, as the

culture is the most important thing you have

Invest in your good people, training, development and make sure you are

in regular contact.

Rock up with a drink, food and ready to help when people are going that

extra step. They will love you for it.

Culture of continuous improvement... never let people think they have

made it, find the next challenge.

yy The best ideas are the simplest ones; don’t let people complicate your

business because they will.

* How you manage international store growth?

* How are you trading in this climate?

® Are you still rolling out new stores?