SOURCE: Great Teams.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Team Building and Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses strategies and best practices for building and maintaining great teams, including communication, removing impediments, giving people a chance, and fostering the right culture and attitude.
KEYWORDS: team building, team management, communication, culture, performance management
---

From: Carlie O'Regan

Sent: Monday, 16 March 2009 3:39 PM

To: Brett Blundy

Subject: FW: "The Three O's: Great Teams” - May 13

FYI (this is the panel you told David Beak you'd do)

From: Colleen Fong [mailto:cdfpromo@iprimus.com.au]

Sent: Wednesday, 11 March 2009 3:24 PM

To: Carlie O'Regan

Subject: "The Three O's: Great Teams" - May 13

Hi Carlie,

For Brett’s update, attached Is Invitation sent to Members.

Regards,

Colleen

orone Original Message-----

From: Colleen Fong [mailto:cdfpromo@iprimus.com.au]

Sent: Friday, February 27, 2009 6:41 PM

To: ‘Carlie O'Regan’

Subject: "The Three O's: Great Teams" - May 13

Hi Carlie,

We're starting work on our Three O's event for May 13. When time permits, can you please forward me a

backgrounder on Brett so I can pass on to Day Chair for her preparations.

Much thanks, 1

Carlie O'Regan

From: Brett Blundy

Sent: Sunday, 12 April 2009 3:07 PM

To: Brett Blundy; Carlie O'Regan

Subject: the three os- building great tearns

Carlie

add with my other notes please

Lessons — the fish bowl story

Maintain great teams - Communicate ,communicate, communicate.........6 for retail there is no other secret, keep

telling everybody what is going on, what is it that is expected , what is important, through in some education and

inspiration and find lots of ways to do that

Maintain-Remove the impediments that stop our team from doing a good job..........4. keep un complicating

everything, keep it simple

Building - Give people a go, particularly in the early days, we throw people in, rewarded on promotion not money, if

they made it then the result had double impact on morale, team spirit, culture.

Brett Blundy

The customer is still the boss!

Brett Blundy

From: Tracey Blundy [tblundy@brazin.com.au]

Sent: Wednesday, 29 April 2009 5:28 PM

To: Brett Blundy

Subject: RE: "The Three O's: Great Teams" - May 13

If someone wants to leave don’t talk them around.

Giving people a pay rise won’t make them stay.

Attitude and culture over everything else will win every time

Youth is a great thing and capable of huge things if you have the time to invest in them

Lead from the front...get in and do what they are doing. Walk in there shoes awhile and you will be amazed what you

will learn.

Always lead from the front, and always set the example. This way you keep the standards and the bench mark high.

Leaders don’t have time off; they don’t have personal phone calls etc.

More important to be on board at the times people don't expect you to be Sat Sun ete

The importance of the unexpected visit.

Always say thanks and reward, What gets rewarded gets repeated

Always be honest it will pay off in the long run.

The importance of terminating poor performers and the effect that has on the rest of the team.

You can always promote before people are ready if there attitude is right

Importance of training, 3 month evaluation and appraisal cycle.

Appraisal cycle isn't about pay rise it's about honest open feedback that will assist people to advance there career.

Everything must work around the culture, it doesn't matter how good someone is if they don’t fit the culture of your

organization, as the culture is the most important thing you have

Invest in your good people, training, development and make sure you are in regular contact.

Succession planning is the key. The hardest thing to do is get rid of the person who is just clogging up the path. Just

filling a spot but not going anywhere. In the long run this is very costly.

“if you cant fire a person then so be it but ultimately you will pay the price in having to pick up the slack, deal with the

issues or miss your budget and all that will be harder on you then dismissing them.

Have fun.

Understand that different areas need different skills, ways to manage etc. (warehouse vs. stores)

Rock up with a drink, food and ready to help when people are going that extra step. They will love you for it.

Have the right training in place and very clear guide lines. Don’t set anyone up to fail.

You have always cared about people and been involved with them and that has always shown thru.

No your best performers and spend time personally grooming them

Open door policy

Tough but fair is how you have always been described, no one is above the rules regardless of position or

importance.

Create ways for people to win and they will keep winning. You will get that snowball effect.

Never miss a deadline

Culture of continuous improvement... never let people think they have made it, find the next challenge.

People can do lots more than you think if they have the right attitude so keep pushing them and they will even

surprise themselves

It's okay to try something new and fail as long as you learn from it

Bonus very rarely increase peoples performances at lower levels and are most of the time to complicated

Be careful who you give equity to. It can affect people very differently

The best ideas are the simplest ones; don't let people complicate your business because they will.

When you add a head or make a new department they will then in turn want to have more people assistants etc. So

never think the expense will stop at one person

The importance of what you say, the letter you send, the phone call you make, the lesson you teach. You will have

forgotten it by next week but it will stay with the team member for a life time.

No matter what excuses people will give you figures don't lie, never have and never will.

Presentation is important.

Okay enough already... eee You are an exceptional leader

If you get stuck look in Jacks book winning as you could have written that book... It says it all.

Hope it helps love me.

From: Sandra- Retail reality [mailto:sandra@retailreality.com.au]