SOURCE: Great Teams.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and People Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of cultivating a strong organizational culture, effective people management, and succession planning as the key drivers of a successful business.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, people management, succession planning, customer-centric, employee development
---

the organisation weak.

We were taught by YOU, to live, breathe, and drive a “customer first” mentality

We lived, breathed and dreamt of it always, and developed more and more of those successors

We were rewarded on service and succession planning primarily

Great Wages % were the outcome of good people management, and great sales drivers at every

level, in particular our prime timers

« Great Sales were the outcome of great people management, succession planning, and

management of culture

© We rewarded by promotion, not money- this worked with young ego’s who were willing to do

anything for the company.

* You always taught us to Hire above ourselves, this is difficult for a lot of people, but we learnt that

we could not succeed without this understanding, and mentality, and of course we could not grow.

eee.e

Culture:

All | ever remember, even up until today is the culture driven into every individual.

« What gets reworded gets repeated- you drove a culture of

-Recruit the right individual

-Train and develop the “BRAZIN” way... now BBRC way

-Recognize strengths and ability (clear set of KPI’s) ~ today’s world is super complicated- we

complicate it!

-reward these strengths (wasn’t always money- promotion from within was always better)

e Asa part of the team, and even today, | can walk into any shopping centre and see the only stores

open and trading before 9:00am is a BBRC store. No other company has the ability to drive, and

MAINTAIN that culture

e Look internally for people who fail. If they fail you fail. This has been hard for even me to develop

in my team. You have always driven that if your team fail, you have failed yourself and that team

member.

e Leaders lead- do as | do, not as | say- culture culture culture...

* The customer at the top of the hierarchy —the GM, CEO, etc is always the least important person,

the customer is the “boss”

® Talking to people on their level, and never make them feel silly or stupid.

You have the ability to make people feel important, and it brings out their best.

Succession planning:

¢ The development and ability to recognize hire achievers ina special gift.

* You gave people a go, even if they were not quite ready, the majority stepped up, and took the

challenge, most exceeded the challenges given.

° Lead lead lead,

* No hierarchy feeling,

| hope that is sort of what you needed, | might have more as | think harder, but to put it in only 3 things,

made it quite difficult.

| hope you are both well, and we will talk soon.

Brett give me a call when you can.

Sanj

From: Brett Blundy [mailto:brettb@bbretailcapital.com.au]

Sent: Friday, 3 April 2009 2:01 PM

To: Sandra- Retail reality; tblundy@brazin.com.au

Subject: FW: "The Three O's: Great Teams” - May 13

Thank you both for agreeing to help me out, hopefully the attached gives you an idea of and prompts you to

remember any memorable moments or moments of brilliance (Mine not yoursjre how we have built great teams.

waving

Brett Blundy

The customer is still the boss!

From: Carlie O'Regan

Sent: Friday, 3 April 2009 11:46 AM

To: Brett Blundy

Subject: FW: "The Three O's: Great Teams" - May 13

From: Colleen Fong [mailto:cdfpromo@iprimus.com.au]

Sent: Wednesday, 11 March 2009 3:24 PM

To: Carlie O'Regan

Subject: "The Three O’s: Great Teams" - May 13

Hi Carlie,

For Brett's update, attached is Invitation sent to Members.

2

Are 1 N val i rhe i rig & Ik deerjont Co

How do think the Rudd government is performing on readership and mn)

Financial management? word Mo en PTA HOH

i wl elCecl a a

Lnews jiley neal. feed

What are 3-5 rtant d f Retail 2

0 Pet Weal Pap ARO IC ‘ah Hs. re Pak alle vies hoe thd. seca

People Tear Buller

What have been your biggest mistakes? A Le dent

Mere Vie O.

an pes Gee mente ha avd dein le.

What additional products do you thnk we will be selling in Bulky Goods

Cent 5— 10 ti _

Evora Cows yearsame — "Eilaleinet, Ploy Cenkewes , SU Cred s

, = Shr VRE obo At twee - (ates [Resluventt ee

~ Entry

As you have an exposure to the broad Maik iN et where do you think the

market is heading in the next few years?

Ss thal Arie on tha BSeusresy

y

What do you use as motivation, to continually build your retail success?

From your experience are landlords being more accommodating with

during these difficult trading times

What is the reasoning for selling Macro Foods to Woolworths —~ Equily Rarbner-

Use [chore af fle example

What is currently the availability of finance?

_ Touah.

Have you recently seen a reduction in the cost of funding?

How do you view the banks and their attempt to achieve higher margins on

their lending?

. (on all He Hah [Jed ror Is

Carlie O'Regan he Place.

Sent: Monday, 16 March 2009 5:12 PM

To: Carlie O'Regan; Brett Blundy

Subject: FW: "The Three O's: Great Teams” - May 13

Attachments: Invitation-TheThreeO's-May1309.pdf -

From: Brett Blundy Wold - Sep em 2. /ef

Standards and disciplines... whatever you decide enforce them ,no matter what the short term cost.

Remove the impediments, that stop the team from being able to do their job well

Reload before you need to .......doubling up

Take them out and get them pissed

Taking blood from the senior team... se and sign their budgets in blood

Communicate, communicate, communicate.

Call Sanj, call Tracey

Brett Blundy

The customer is still the boss!

From: Carlie O'Regan

Sent: Monday, 16 March 2009 3:39 PM

To: Brett Blundy

Subject: FW: "The Three O's: Great Teams” - May 13

FYI (this is the panel you told David Beak you'd do)

From: Colleen Fong [mailto:cdfpromo@iprimus.com.au]

Sent: Wednesday, 11 March 2009 3:24 PM

To: Carlie O'Regan