SOURCE: Great Teams.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Effective Team Building
SUMMARY: This document discusses the experiences and secrets of creating and maintaining great teams, focusing on recruitment, succession planning, and company culture.
KEYWORDS: team building, recruitment, succession planning, company culture, customer-first mentality
---

Ce: Carlie O'Regan @ BB Retail

Subject: RE: "The Three O's: Great Teams" - May 13

Hi Brett, Hi Tracey!!! (How are you???) Lam a mum too now —| know, can you believe it??? Also, No 2 on

the way (he he he}

Okay- here are my thoughts, | hope they are of some help:

Experiences and secrets, on how to create and maintain great teams.

Recruitment on “Attitude” vs “Experience”

¢ You taught and lead us, even at very young ages looked beyond the resume, and looked for the

attitude, and ability to fit the company culture, and looked for willingness to do the job, any job!

* Experience never took priority over Attitude, poor attitude was not tolerated.

Succession planning- very very rarely, especially in the early days were any outside teams

employed, as the mentality was that the culture became diluted, recruiting externally, and made

the organisation weak.

We were taught by YOU, to live, breathe, and drive a “customer first” mentality

We lived, breathed and dreamt of it always, and developed more and more of those successors

We were rewarded on service and succession planning primarily

Great Wages % were the outcome of good people management, and great sales drivers at every

level, in particular our prime timers

Great Sales were the outcome of great people management, succession planning, and

management of culture

We rewarded by promotion, not money- this worked with young ego’s who were willing to do

anything for the company.

You always taught us to Hire above ourselves, this is difficult for a lot of people, but we learnt that

we could not succeed without this understanding, and mentality, and of course we could not grow.

Culture:

All lever remember, even up until today is the culture driven into every individual.

°

What gets rewarded gets repeated- you drove a culture of

-Recruit the right individual

-Train and develop the “BRAZIN” way... now BBRC way

-Recognize strengths and ability (clear set of KPI's) — today’s world is super complicated- we

complicate it!

-reward these strengths (wasn’t always money- promotion from within was always better)

As a part of the team, and even today, | can walk into any shopping centre and see the only stores

open and trading before 9:00am is a BBRC store. No other company has the ability to drive, and

MAINTAIN that culture

Look internally for people who fail. If they fail you fail. This has been hard for even me to develop

in my team. You have always driven that if your team fail, you have failed yourself and that team

member.

Leaders lead- do as | do, not as I say- culture culture culture...

The customer at the top of the hierarchy — the GM, CEO, etc is always the least important person,

the customer is the “boss”

Talking to people on their level, and never make them feel silly or stupid.

You have the ability to make people feel important, and it brings out their best.

Succession planning:

The development and ability to recognize hire achievers in a special gift.

You gave people a go, even if they were not quite ready, the majority stepped up, and took the

challenge, most exceeded the challenges given.

Lead lead lead.

No hierarchy feeling,

| hope that is sort of what you needed, | might have more as | think harder, but to put it in only 3 things,

made it quite difficult.

| hope you are both well, and we will talk soon.

Brett give me a calf when you can.

Sanj

From: Brett Blundy [mailto:brettb@bbretailcapital.com.au}

Sent: Friday, 3 April 2009 2:01 PM

To: Sandra- Retail reality; tolundy@brazin.com.au

Subject: FW: "The Three O's: Great Teams" - May 13

‘Thank you both for agreeing to help me out, hopefully the attached gives you an idea of and prompts you to

remember any memorable moments or moments of brilliance (Mine not yours)re how we have built great teams.

waving

Brett Blundy

The customer is still the boss!

From: Carlie O'Regan

Sent: Friday, 3 April 2009 11:46 AM

To: Brett Blundy

Subject: FW: “The Three O's: Great Teams" - May 13

From: Colleen Fong [mailto:cdfpromo@iprimus.com.au]

Sent: Wednesday, 11 March 2009 3:24 PM

To: Carlie O'Regan

Subject: "The Three O's: Great Teams" - May 13

Hi Carlie,

For Brett’s update, attached is Invitation sent to Members.

Regards,

Colleen

From: Colleen Fong [mailto:cdfpromo@iprimus.com.au]}

Sent: Friday, February 27, 2009 6:41 PM

To: ‘Carlie O'Regan’

Subject: "The Three O's: Great Teams" - May 13

Hi Carlie,

We're starting work on our Three O’s event for May 13. When time permits, can you please forward me a

backgrounder on Brett so I can pass on to Day Chair for her preparations.

Much thanks,

Colleen

Carlie O'Regan

From: Sandra- Retail reality [sandra@retailreality.com.au]

Sent: Wednesday, 8 April 2009 10:48 AM

To: Brett Blundy; tblundy@brazin.com.au

Ce: Carlie O'Regan

Subject: RE: "The Three O's: Great Teams” - May 13

Hi Brett, Hi Tracey!!! (How are you??? } 1am a mum too now 1 know, can you believe it??? Also, No 2 on

the way (he he he)

Okay- here are my thoughts, { hope they are of some help:

Experiences and secrets, on how to create and maintain great teams,

Recruitment on “Attitude” vs “Experience”

e You taught and lead us, even at very young ages looked beyond the resume, and looked for the

attitude, and ability to fit the company culture, and looked for willingness to do the job, any job!

e Experience never took priority over Attitude, poor attitude was not tolerated.

© Succession planning- very very rarely, especially in the early days were any outside teams

employed, as the mentality was that the culture became diluted, recruiting externally, and made

the organisation weak.

We were taught by YOU, to live, breathe, and drive a “customer first” mentality

We lived, breathed and dreamt of it always, and developed more and more of those successors

We were rewarded on service and succession planning primarily