SOURCE: Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended on It (HBR).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.02 HFT - Succession Planning
TOPIC: Talent Management and Development
SUMMARY: Succession planning and talent development are crucial for organizations, and line managers play a key role in nurturing future leaders and implementing effective talent development initiatives.
KEYWORDS: succession planning, talent development, leadership development, line manager accountability, HR-line manager collaboration
---

also includes processes to identify “safe posi- opportunities for professional development

tions”—crucial jobs with reinforced retention and personal growth. Managers must do this

strategies and ready replacements. The tight even if it means nudging their rising stars into

integration of succession planning with talent new functional areas or business units. They

development has paid off: The typical manager must mentor emerging leaders, from their own

at S.C. Johnson has been on the job for nearly and other departments, passing on important

15 years, and nine out of every ten positions knowledge and providing helpful evaluations

are filled internally. and feedback. The operating managers’ own

At Tyson, just a few years after the forma- evaluations, development plans, and promo-

tion of the initial senior management task tions, in turn, depend on how successfully they

force on leadership development, all of John nurture their subordinates.

Tyson’s direct reports are fully committed to Line managers are held accountable not

the succession-planning process. In what they only for aiding in the development of individ-

call the “talent alignment and optimization” ual star managers but also for helping senior

initiative, or TAO, leaders from across the orga- executives and HR experts define and create a

Many executives nization try to strike a balance between the balanced leadership development system for

supply of talent (rising stars) and the demand the entire company. They must tackle ques-

believe that leadership

for talent (critical positions). Right after Ty- tions such as “How will we balance the need to

development is a job son’s strategic review process, which is held nurture future leaders with the pressures to

semiannually, the company’s senior manage- eliminate redundant activities?” and “How

for the HR department. ment team holds open and constructive discus- should we encourage burgeoning leaders to

sions about the company’s high-potential man- take risks and innovate while maintaining our

This may be the single

agers to ensure that the organization nurtures focus on short-term operations and profit

biggest misconception in them the skills necessary to execute current goals?” (Firms shouldn’t have to forgo their

strategy while also preparing them to take on quarterly targets for the sake of developing

they can have.

larger, more complex roles. And to make sure high-potential managers.) Practical solutions

that rising stars are challenged and achieve to these and other challenges don’t magically

long-term success at Tyson, the senior leaders appear in HR conference rooms; they come

work closely with HR to devise development from the line managers.

paths that consider multiple career possibilities If line managers are held responsible for ex-

for high-potentials, three to five years out. ecuting the talent development initiatives, the

board should assume high-level ownership of

A Line and Board Responsibility the overall system. Traditionally, however,

Many executives believe that leadership devel- most boards have focused on CEO succession,

opment is a job for the HR department. This giving short shrift to systematic leadership de-

may be the single biggest misconception they velopment. After all, there was little risk of a

can have. As corporations have broken down calamity occurring if the board didn’t monitor

work into manageable activities and then con- the leadership pipeline. There was also little

solidated capabilities into areas of expertise, chance that the board members would be held

employee-related activities have typically personally accountable for the resulting weak

fallen into HR’s domain. The prevailing wis- talent pool. In A.T. Kearney’s 2004 survey on

dom has been that if HR took care of those the effectiveness of corporate governance, par-

often intangible “soft” issues, line managers ticipating board directors universally acknowl-

and executives would be free to focus on edged the importance of leadership develop-

“hard” business issues and client interaction. ment and succession planning. Yet only one in

But at companies that are good at growing four respondents believed the board of direc-

harvard business review • october 2005 page 5

Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended on It

tors was very good at these activities. ple who are actually “doing things.” Mean-

The CEOs of savvy companies realize that while, the rising stars gain direct access to the

their boards are well placed to help them plan board, gleaning new perspectives and wisdom

for new leadership to take the reins. Detached as a result.

from day-to-day operations and biases, board

directors can objectively look at the company’s A Shared Resource

leadership development systems and bench No leadership development program can be

strength. At Starbucks, for example, the board effective unless it provides mechanisms for ex-

oversees a formalized succession-planning pro- posing future leaders to the full range of the

cess for 2,500 positions. Its goal is to make sure company’s operations. By introducing their

the company always has the right people with rising stars to new business units, geographies,

the right values in the right places at the right and business challenges (managing a turn-

times. As Orin Smith explains: “The values and around, for instance, or launching a new prod-

behaviors of the individuals you choose go uct in a foreign market), companies can help

through the organization like a rifle shot; they these executive-track employees broaden their

can be felt at the line level within months. We power bases and spheres of influence while

can’t afford to hire or promote people with the giving them a sense of how the different parts

wrong values. It’s a path to mediocrity.” of the organization work together to execute

Some boards are becoming aggressive in the overall corporate strategy.

getting to know their companies’ rising stars. It’s a reasonable goal but hard to accom-

Pittsburgh-based Mellon Financial, a 136-year- plish. Why would the supervisor of a brilliant

old financial institution, had long required the junior manager share that talent with another

heads of its major business units to give pre- unit, knowing that productivity and profitabil-

sentations to the board. But in 2002, CEO ity in his own unit might suffer? And what if