SOURCE: Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended on It (HBR).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.02 HFT - Succession Planning
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The article discusses the importance of creating an integrated leadership development program to ensure the right people are in the right roles to guide the company through major changes and upheavals.
KEYWORDS: succession planning, management training, talent management, leadership pipeline, organizational development
---

A R T I C L E

www.hbr.org

Growing Talent as if

Your Business

Depended on It

by Jeffrey M. Cohn, Rakesh Khurana,

and Laura Reeves

Included with this full-text Harvard Business Review article:

1 Article Summary

The Idea in Brief—the core idea

The Idea in Practice—putting the idea to work

2 Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended on It

9 Further Reading

A list of related materials, with annotations to guide further

exploration of the article’s ideas and applications

Product 1924

Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended

on It

The Idea in Brief The Idea in Practice

Like any manager, you can expect your firm To create your integrated leadership develop- tions only when absolutely necessary. But

to face periodic upheavals—for example, a ment program: the future leaders get the floor.

major acquisition or the emergence of omi-

nous new competitors. If you don’t have EMBRACE SUCCESSION PLANNING INSIST THAT MANAGERS SHARE TOP

the right people in the right roles to guide Too many CEOs consider the term “succession PERFORMERS

your company through such choppy wa-

planning” taboo—akin to planning their own Motivate unit leaders to share brilliant junior

ters, you put your company at grave risk.

funeral. To build strong leadership teams, managers with other units. High-potential

For example, you may be forced to pro-

CEOs—and leaders at least three levels leaders will gain exposure to your company’s

mote untested junior managers or hire out-

below—must embrace succession planning operations and see how the organization’s

siders who can’t adjust to your company’s

and integrate it closely with management- parts collaborate to execute strategy. Cross-

culture fast enough to successfully lead

training and development programs. functional assignments also provide opportu-

change.

nities to master new business challenges,

Example:

How to mitigate such risk? Create an inte- such as managing a turnaround or launching

When Orin Smith took Starbucks’s helm in

grated leadership development program. a product in a new territory. These assign-

2000, he established an exit date of 2005.

Unlike stand-alone, ad hoc development ments also enable rising stars to broaden their

He recruited Jim Donald as a promising

activities, an integrated leadership develop- spheres of influence.

successor. Then he groomed Donald for the

ment program is owned by everyone in

CEO position by having him work in stores Example:

your organization: CEOs and VPs develop

to understand the customer experience At Tyson Foods, unit leaders are held per-

plans for replacing themselves. Board mem-

and visit coffee-roasting plants to observe sonally accountable for rotating emerging

bers actively identify and develop rising

operations. Eventually shouldering respon- leaders through other parts of the com-

stars. Line managers willingly relinquish

sibility for North American operations, pany. The CEO and VP of HR monitor cross-

their best performers to other units so

Donald developed his own succession functional development plans and ensure

emerging leaders can gain cross-functional

plan—assessing and developing potential that unit leaders receive equally qualified

experience.

leaders who could take over his assign- managers in exchange for their outgoing

Carefully crafted, your integrated leadership ments and provide the right fit with the ones. Tyson also links senior executives’

development program becomes a core leadership team. compensation to their ability to circulate

part of your company’s value proposition. and develop emerging leaders.

You attract talented future leaders, establish INVOLVE THE BOARD

the bench strength you need to execute Detached from daily operations and biases,

crucial strategic initiatives, and boost share- your board of directors can objectively assess

holder confidence in your firm. And be- your company’s leadership development sys-

cause rivals can’t copy your program, it be- tems and bench strength. Encourage directors

comes an enduring source of competitive to get to know your firm’s rising stars: board

advantage—as giants such as Tyson Foods, members will gauge the efficacy of your lead-

Mellon Financial Corporation, and Star- ership pipeline, and emerging leaders will gain

bucks have discovered. experience presenting to the top of the

house—a key development opportunity.

Example:

Mellon Financial Corporation once required

heads of major business units to give pre-

sentations to the board. But starting in

2002, CEO Marty McGuinn began having

rising stars make these presentations. Unit

managers accompany their emerging lead-

ers to board meetings and answer ques-

page 1

.DEVRESER

STHGIR

LLA

.NOITAROPROC

GNIHSILBUP

LOOHCS

SSENISUB

DRAVRAH

5002

©

THGIRYPOC

In companies where leadership development really works, it is not a

stand-alone activity. It is a core process of the business, dyed into its

very fabric.

Growing Talent as if

Your Business

Depended on It

by Jeffrey M. Cohn, Rakesh Khurana,

and Laura Reeves

In the thirteenth century, it took the College That’s a shortsighted view. Companies whose

of Cardinals almost three years to anoint a suc- boards and senior executives fail to prioritize

cessor to Pope Clement IV. To break the stale- succession planning and leadership develop-

mate, one of history’s most bitter organiza- ment end up either experiencing a steady attri-

tional deadlocks, church officials began tion in talent or retaining people with outdated

limiting the food and drink they provided the skills. Such firms become extremely vulnerable

voting cardinals, eventually giving them just when they have to cope with inevitable organi-

bread and water. Fortunately, today’s cardi- zational upheavals—integrating an acquired

nals don’t seem to need such harsh incentives: company with a different operating style and

It took them less than a week to choose Bene- culture, for instance, or reexamining basic oper-

dict XVI. ating assumptions when a competitor with a

When it comes to succession planning (and, leaner cost structure emerges. In situations like

by extension, leadership development) in the these, businesses need to have the right people

business world, corporate boards could do with in the right roles to survive. But if leadership de-

a similar sense of urgency—though we velopment has not been a primary focus for

wouldn’t necessarily advocate starving them CEOs, senior management teams, and boards,

into it. Traditionally, boards have left these their organizations will be more likely to make