SOURCE: Growing CEOs from the Inside (Joseph Bower, Sean Silverthorne).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.02 HFT - Succession Planning
TOPIC: Leadership Development and Succession Planning
SUMMARY: The article discusses the importance of effective CEO succession planning, highlighting the need for 'inside-outsider' candidates who have deep company knowledge and an external perspective.
KEYWORDS: CEO succession, leadership development, talent management, organizational transformation, insider-outsider perspective
---

RESEARCH & IDEAS

Growing CEOs from the Inside

Q&A with: Joseph L. Bower

Published: November 14, 2007

Author: Sean Silverthorne

WhoisthebestCEOcandidate?Aninsider beembracedbytheorganizationanddrivenby and how things can best be transformed.

with intimate knowledge of your company, or the CEO. In the book, Bower identifies best Butwithallthatunderstandingoftencomes

anoutsiderwhoisreadytoputsacredcowsout practices companies can follow to identify, a tacit or explicit belief in the appropriateness

to pasture? The answer, says HBS professor groom, and train internal candidates for the of "what we are trying to do and how we are

Joseph L. Bower, is both. In this Q&A, he C-suite. doing it." You need an outside perspective to

discusses his new book, The CEO Within, and We asked Bower, an expert on corporate haveatrue,evenbrutal,understandingofwhat

why inside-outsiders are the key to succession strategy, organization, and leadership, to draw needstochangeifthecompanyistosucceedin

planning. Key concepts include: on his 40 years of research and teaching the competitive environment that lies ahead.

• Effective succession planning is a hallmark experience at Harvard Business School to The inside-outsider knows that if his or her

of many top-performing companies, but discuss the issues surrounding CEO succession. vision of the way the world is headed is

most firms pay little attention to the process. remotely right, then real change is needed and

• In many cases an ideal candidate for CEO Sean Silverthorne: What's wrong with heorshehastheunderstandingofthecompany

will come from the inside but carry an the way most companies today pick CEOs? and confidence of its people to drive that

outsider's perspective. Joseph Bower: For most companies, transformation.

successionisaneventtobemanagedwithanad

hoc process. CEOs and their boards seem to Q:Atanorganizationallevel,howshould

There is no more important decision a believe they have done their job if there is a companies build a succession program?

board can make than naming a CEO. Yet most "nameintheenvelope."ThatmeansiftheCEO A: Companies don't build succession

companies pay scant attention to the issue of is hit by a truck, they know who to appoint. programs,theirCEOsdo.TheCEOhastowant

successionotherthanafewwhisperednamesin But this is nothing like a well-managed tomanagethecompanysothatpotentialleaders

the hallways. The result? The hiring of an successionprocessthattakesmanyyearsandis can develop.

outsider who quickly gets mired in legacy and part and parcel of the way the company is That means having a chief talent officer to

obstinacy,oraninsiderwhoknowsthebusiness managed. drive a many-faceted program that finds and

but can't lead. builds great leaders. It means recruiting and

That'swhythebestCEOshouldbebothan Q: Why haven't organizations thought training so that leaders can grow, but also

insider and an outsider, says Harvard Business more about succession? managing compensation and promotion with

School professor Joseph L. Bower in his new A: Succession is awkward for most boards development in mind. It means organizing the

book, The CEO Within: Why Inside Outsiders andCEOs.Itisassociatedwithfailureorakind company so that up-and-coming talent can run

Are the Key to Succession Planning. of death. Giving up power is not pleasant. So the whole business early in their career. It

"Thebestleadersarepeoplefrominsidethe manyCEOsdon'twanttotalkaboutit.Atbest meansmanagingbudgetingandplanningsothat

company who somehow have maintained theythinkitmakesthemalameduck.Atworst, it is a learning experience, not a cynical game

enough detachment from the local traditions, they may want to avoid leaving. So a board of "gotcha." It means the CEO investing his or

ideologies, and shibboleths that they have membermightask,"Don'tyouthinkweshould hertime,andthatoftheboard,sothateveryone

retained the objectivity of an outsider," Bower discuss succession? You might get hit by a getstoknowandappreciatethequalitiesofthe

writes. truck." And the CEO will say, "I have a potential leaders.

Think Anne Mulcahy, CEO of Xerox, who successorinmind,andI'vetoldJohn[thechair

started out as a sales rep for the company in of the Compensation Committee] who it is." Q:Whathappenswhenyourfirmhasnot

1976 and took the top job in 2001. In an HBS Somevariantofthatconversationcangoon done proper succession planning, and needs

case study mentioned in Bower's book, for years. If that is all that has happened about to find a new CEO quickly?

Mulcahy drew counsel from a wide succession, then when the time comes, the A: Well, inevitably you bring in a search

constituencyoffriendsandacquaintancesatthe board may have to go outside. firmtohelpwiththeprocess.Therewilltendto

company to help set its future direction based be a bias in the search against insiders.

oncolorprintersandofficeservices.Xeroxhas Q:Youarguethatthebestcandidatefor Sometimes,theboardwillturntoapastCEOto

since rebounded from near death to be a $16 the top job is an internal candidate who has serve in the interim, but sometimes that period

billion player in the document industry. developedanoutsider'sperspective.Whatdo provides time for a quick look at a younger

Promoting from within is no promise of you mean by that? insider. Usually the insiders will look

success, of course. Former Merrill Lynch CEO A: Well, internal is pretty clear. The great incomplete,whiletheoutsiderswilllooklikean

Stan O'Neal was with the company 21 years advantage of an internal candidate is that he or imperfect match. But given the record of

before his forced resignation on October 30. she knows the people, systems, and culture of outsiders, one might want to work with an

But strong leadership and effective succession the company. That means the candidate knows insider rather than turning to an outsider riding

programs are a hallmark of top-performing the company's strengths and weaknesses, who in on a white horse. I'd rather have an Anne

companies in general, says Bower. canbereliedupontohelpchangethings,where MulcahythanaBobNardelli(CEOofChrysler)

Succession planning is hard work: It must world-classcompetencedoesordoesnotreside, or even a Jim Kilts (former CEO of Gillette).

COPYRIGHT 2007 PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE 1

HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL | WORKING KNOWLEDGE | HBSWK.HBS.EDU

Q: In a company that does manage comes as the result of a long tenure within a

Book Excerpt

successionwell,whatroleshouldaCEOplay single organization. The imperatives of the

in choosing his or her successor? ThisbringsusbacktotheideaoftheInside world ahead must be their drivers.

A: Developing the cohort of potential Outsider.Mycontention—notonlyinthisbook, Having established the peculiar

successors is one of the principal jobs of the butalsoinmyotherwritingsandmyteachingat requirements of the job, I then look at what's

CEO.Itcan'tbedoneunlesstheCEOisdriving Harvard Business School—is that the best involvedinbuildingexecutiveswhomakegood

that process—remember, the process is a candidatefortheCEOjobisanindividualwith candidates:recruitment,development,selection,

critical part of how the company is managed a distinctive skill set and mind-set. There are and transition. The starting point, of

over a period of years. It's not an event. The exceptions to every rule, of course, but in course—thesinequanon—isacertainpersonal