SOURCE: Growing CEOs from the Inside (Joseph Bower, Sean Silverthorne).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.02 HFT - Succession Planning
TOPIC: Leadership Succession
SUMMARY: The article discusses the process of selecting and developing CEO candidates, emphasizing the importance of a distinctive skill set, personal integrity, and competitiveness.
KEYWORDS: CEO succession, insider vs. outsider, leadership development, personal attributes, corporate culture
---

that process—remember, the process is a candidatefortheCEOjobisanindividualwith candidates:recruitment,development,selection,

critical part of how the company is managed a distinctive skill set and mind-set. There are and transition. The starting point, of

over a period of years. It's not an event. The exceptions to every rule, of course, but in course—thesinequanon—isacertainpersonal

board needs to help with discussion, general,thecandidatemostlikelytosucceedin makeup, which tends to involve big doses of

independent assessment, informed suggestions, theCEOpostisapersonwhoisbothinsideand smarts, high personal integrity, and good

andeventuallyachoice.Buttheboardcan'tdo outside the company: the Inside Outsider. humor. Right after good humor comes good

the job. Howcanyoubeboth?Byinsider,Imeana health,whichIbelievetobelinkedinimportant

person who has grown up, professionally ways to good humor. The ability to laugh at

Q:Aretheretimeswhenaninsiderisnot speaking, primarily within the confines of the oneself,itseems,wardsoffallkindsofphysical

the best choice for CEO? company. He or she knows it intimately. By ailments and psychological evils.

A: Absolutely. It may be essential to go outsider, I mean someone who has retained a Last but not least in the personal makeup

outside when there are ethical lapses that seem degreeofdetachmentfromthecompany.Heor arena is a healthy dose of competitiveness. We

embedded in the culture of the company. That she is skeptical when confronted with the intheuniversitysettingspendalotofourtime

seems to have happened at Siemens, maybe company's unadulterated ideology—its and energy focusing on what might be called

Boeing—I'm not close enough to know. But self-serving, and often self-deluding, bromides. the "intellect of business"—the cerebral, cool,

those boards went outside to demonstrate the He or she is outside the mainstream of the passive aspects of enterprise—mainly because

seriousness of the problem and their intent to company and is therefore able to bring what thesearetheeasieraspectstodescribe,capture,

resolve it. It may also be essential when there might be called "peripheral perspectives" to andquantify.Butmuchofbusinessisallabout

hasbeenarealbreakdownincompetenceatthe bear. thepassionateaspectsofourhumannature:the

top. AmIadvocatingtheelevationofeccentrics, noisy, extroverted, aggressive side that we

misfits, and other marginal types? Of course inevitably bring with us to the office and that

Q:Whatadvicewouldyougivetheboard

not. But based on my years of formal and wedrawontoclimbthecorporateladder.CEOs

of Merrill Lynch as it searches for a

informal research into how cooperations tend to have a whole lot more passion in their

replacement for CEO Stan O'Neal?

actually work, the successful CEO from inside makeup than your average guy or gal on the

A:Lookinsidetoseewhomightbeableto

must be able to look at his or her corporate street; highly successful CEOs tend to have

dothejob.Butthechoicewillhavetoreassure

inheritance as if she had just bought the even more.

the Street. In finance, credit depends on

company. Yes, they can and should take Excerpted by permission of Harvard

reputation, so the insider will have to be

advantage of the intimate working Business School Press from The CEO Within:

credible. It will really help Merrill if there is a

knowledge—of people and systems, of Why Inside Outsiders are the Key to

well-liked and well-respected member of the

suppliers and customers, of regulators and the Succession. Copyright 2007 by Harvard

team who can be brought forward to lead. But

competition—that they have gained through Business School Publishing Corporation. All

the board will have to help that person

theirtenureasmanager.Atthesametime,they rights reserved.

succeed—through close involvement of 2 or 3

mustdrawheavilyontheirunderstandingofthe

key directors—coaching, advising, listening,

newworldtowhichthecompanymustrespond.

About the author

and supporting. These are difficult markets.

They must do so unencumbered by all the

cognitiveandemotionalbaggagethatveryoften Sean Silverthorne is editor of HBS

Working Knowledge.

COPYRIGHT 2007 PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE 2