SOURCE: Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended on It (HBR).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.02 HFT - Succession Planning
TOPIC: Talent Management and Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for effectively managing and developing talent within an organization, including a program called 'Leading from the Heart' and the importance of making leadership programs legitimate in the eyes of employees.
KEYWORDS: talent management, leadership development, employee engagement, leadership programs, succession planning
---

gram, called Leading from the Heart, which proposition—one that competitors can’t even

helps existing managers transmit Starbucks’s understand, much less copy.

customer-friendly (and brand-centric) ethos to

new hires. Our colleague Gianni Montezemolo passed away just be-

The third question you have to ask is fore this article was published. We’d like to thank him for

his contributions to this research.

whether your employees think the company’s

leadership programs are legitimate. They will

Reprint R0510C

take the program seriously only if they know

Harvard Business Review OnPoint 1924

these talent management elements will affect

To order, see the next page

actual business decisions instead of just pad-

or call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500

ding personnel folders. They must also believe

or go to www.hbr.org

harvard business review • october 2005 page 8

Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended

on It

Further Reading

ARTICLES

Developing Your Leadership Pipeline Ending the CEO Succession Crisis

by Jay A. Conger and Robert M. Fulmer by Ram Charan

Harvard Business Review Harvard Business Review

December 2003 February 2005

Product no. 5542 Product no. 8851

Conger and Fulmer affirm the importance of Charan offers suggestions for managing suc-

succession planning, especially in the middle cession planning for the most critical role of

ranks of your organization—where high-po- all—CEO. Spot promising candidates early,

tential managers acquire the broad skills then move them through positions requiring

needed to succeed in more senior roles. Keep responsibility for steadily larger, more com-

a full pipeline of middle to senior managers plex P&L centers. Ensure that directors person-

ready to step into roles most essential to your ally get to know rising stars by inviting them

organization’s long-term health. How? Inte- to board meetings and dinners, talking with

grate succession planning with leadership de- them informally, and observing them in their

velopment to ensure you know what skills fu- business operations. If you look outside for

ture leaders need and how they can learn CEO candidates, put directors—not recruit-

them. Give high-potential candidates linch- ers—in charge. To guide recruiters, directors

pin assignments coupled with team support, must articulate three to four non-negotiable

training, and mentoring. Give budding leaders aspects of talent, know-how, and experience

general management experience. Openly tell needed for your company’s future growth.

managers where they stand on the perfor- They must also conduct due diligence on out-

mance potential ladder, and what they must side candidates—seeking reliable external

do to advance. sources, demanding candor from them, and

rooting out fatal character flaws and skills

shortages.

To Order

For reprints, Harvard Business Review

OnPoint orders, and subscriptions

to Harvard Business Review:

Call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500.

Go to www.hbr.org

For customized and quantity orders

of reprints and Harvard Business

Review OnPoint products:

Call Rich Gravelin at

617-783-7626,

or e-mail him at

rgravelin@hbsp.harvard.edu

page 9