SOURCE: Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended on It (HBR).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.02 HFT - Succession Planning
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses challenges companies face in sharing top talent across business units for leadership development.
KEYWORDS: talent sharing, leadership pipeline, succession planning, cross-functional experience, accountability
---

old financial institution, had long required the junior manager share that talent with another

heads of its major business units to give pre- unit, knowing that productivity and profitabil-

sentations to the board. But in 2002, CEO ity in his own unit might suffer? And what if

Marty McGuinn saw potential value in having the rising star misinterprets the transfer to an-

the company’s rising stars make these presen- other business unit (with perhaps fewer people

tations. Now, Mellon’s unit managers accom- and less revenue) as a negative gesture and

pany the rising stars to the board meetings. considers leaving the company?

They answer questions when absolutely neces- Tyson Foods faced just such challenges.

sary, but the future leaders get the floor. As a Under the company’s revamped leadership de-

result, the board can assess for itself the effi- velopment program, business unit heads were

cacy of the company’s leadership pipeline and obliged to share their highest-performing man-

hear about corporate initiatives from the peo- agers with other business units so these rising

stars could gain cross-functional experience.

Initially, it was hard for the unit leaders to do

so, after years of hoarding talent and building

A Leadership Development Checklist personal fiefdoms.

To encourage sharing, John Tyson holds the

To grow great leaders, companies should do the following:

business unit and functional leaders personally

• Launch a formal, high-level succes- • Have the board oversee all leader- accountable for rotating emerging leaders

sion-planning conference for senior ship development initiatives, and through different parts of the company. Cross-

executives facilitated by corporate insist on continual communication functional development plans—essentially, the

HR and outside experts; outline the by CEOs and other senior managers road maps for high-potentials’ assignments to

leadership development process; on their commitment to leadership Tyson’s different businesses—are clearly articu-

and cascade it through the company. development. lated at the succession conferences described

• Create leadership development pro- • Reshuffle rising stars throughout earlier. These plans are monitored by Tyson

grams that fill holes in your com- the company, taking care that A and the vice president of corporate HR. More-

pany’s talent portfolio to ensure a players are exchanged for other A over, the CEO assures unit leaders that they

deep bench for critical positions in players. will receive equally qualified managers in ex-

the firm. • Make sure that your leadership de- change for their outgoing ones. The company’s

• Let HR create tools and facilitate velopment program is aligned with talent-assessment practices have been refined

their use, but require the business your strategy, reinforces your com- so that the right qualities and skills are being

units to own the leadership develop- pany’s brand, and has support from measured across all businesses and functions.

ment activities. your employees. That is, Tyson realized that a manager’s success

harvard business review • october 2005 page 6

Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended on It

in one area of the business was by no means a describes how Mellon built its integrated lead-

guarantee of success in another. So the com- ership development system.)

pany carefully retrofitted its performance as-

sessment tools to measure the competencies, Aligned, Attractive, and Authentic

values, and skills that would be necessary for As Tyson learned, an effective talent develop-

any future positions that a manager might pur- ment program is more than just a portfolio of

sue. The results are objective, so business unit off-the-shelf components such as competency-

leaders are exchanging “apples for apples,” not profiling tools, 360-degree feedback, and on-

simply sending B players to other units and line training. It is a carefully thought-out sys-

keeping their fingers crossed for a star in re- tem that you have to develop for yourself.

turn. Tyson has also adopted formal perfor- As a CEO assessing a new program, the first

mance-management review policies that link question you need to ask yourself is whether

senior executive compensation to the move- the constituent parts of your program combine

ment and development of emerging leaders. to enable the company to compete more effec-

Mellon’s Marty McGuinn has a similar phi- tively. A company that operates in a highly in-

losophy. His strikingly simple but powerful novative environment, for example, needs to

mantra is “Connect the dots.” That is, for Mel- know whether its leadership development sys-

lon to create a leadership development system tem actually enables it to produce better inno-

that competitors cannot match, all its manag- vations more quickly than its competitors. If

ers must map their discrete leadership devel- the system rewards individuals who produce

opment activities and processes to a coherent, the most predictable rather than the most in-

companywide system. Managers in dramati- novative results, it is misaligned.

cally different functions, locations, and operat- Misalignment usually occurs when compa-

ing units are expected to share knowledge and nies have developed, tested, and rolled out ini-

talent that they think would enhance the tiatives ad hoc, without any high-level plan-

whole system. (The sidebar “A Crash Course” ning or a defined time horizon. The first

A Crash Course

Most of the companies we studied developed could include bundling products and ser- degree feedback assessment initiative, no mat-

their leadership programs over time or at least vices, cross selling to clients, and expanding ter how shiny and slick, might seem like a dis-

were under relatively little pressure in terms into unproven global markets. traction to these people—and would ultimately

of talent management. Mellon Financial, how- To meet this challenge, Mellon’s HR de- be futile.

ever, had to build a new system under extreme partment created an extensive leadership de- McGuinn, therefore, instituted a policy

pressure to support senior management’s ef- velopment program that was rolled out to the that leadership development tools would be

forts to transform the company. whole company. Mellon’s senior manage- created in formal centers of excellence con-