SOURCE: Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended on It (HBR).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.02 HFT - Succession Planning
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: This text discusses how Mellon transformed its leadership development program to align with the company's business strategy and engage business unit leaders.
KEYWORDS: leadership development, competency-based, business alignment, HR-business partnership, talent management
---

pressure to support senior management’s ef- velopment program that was rolled out to the that leadership development tools would be

forts to transform the company. whole company. Mellon’s senior manage- created in formal centers of excellence con-

By the late 1990s, the venerable organiza- ment team was involved from the start. sisting of three to six resident experts. The

tion comprised a wide range of businesses. McGuinn and his team met frequently (in tools would then be offered to the business

The senior management team had articu- person and via e-mail) and conducted one- units through a specialized distribution net-

lated a business strategy that focused on on-one discussions with emerging leaders at work of human resources business partners

high-growth opportunities and global expan- the company. Armed with these data, the ex- (HRBP)—liaisons between the centers of ex-

sion. Through the disposition of specific ecutives helped Mellon’s rising stars under- cellence and the business unit heads. The

units, and through strategic acquisitions to stand the competencies they would need and HRBPs were charged with understanding the

build its asset management and corporate developed plans for them to acquire those strategies of the business units and the com-

and institutional services businesses, senior skills. petencies they wanted to develop and exe-

management effectively transformed Mellon But McGuinn and Mellon’s human resources cute. The HRBPs would use that information

from a traditional commercial bank to a director knew that HR’s tools for leadership to determine, in collaboration with the unit

more focused financial services institution. development would not gain traction among leaders, which leadership development tools

But CEO Marty McGuinn realized that the managers if they were not owned and imple- to use. Because the units’ strategies varied

next generation of leaders would not be able mented by the business units. Mellon’s manag- considerably across Mellon, McGuinn and

to execute the new strategy without an en- ers had a reputation for being results driven HR granted the HRBPs wide latitude in their

hanced set of competencies and a broader, and focused on achieving day-to-day goals. decisions about how, when, and why to use

more entrepreneurial mind-set, one that An HR-mandated mentoring program or 360- particular tools.

harvard business review • october 2005 page 7

Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended on It

iteration of Tyson’s mentoring program, for in- that those individuals whom the system re-

stance, was barely linked to the company’s ex- cruits, selects, and promotes are truly qualified

isting leadership development activities and for their positions and aren’t just being re-

strategic goals. Little thought went into the warded for their political allegiances.

matching process; rising stars weren’t necessar- Companies need to address the issue of au-

ily assigned mentors in the businesses and thenticity head-on. Senior executives at Mel-

functions that could have helped them the lon realized that some people might be skepti-

most, so significant developmental opportuni- cal about the company’s new talent

ties were lost. development initiatives: Many managers felt

Misalignment can also occur when a com- they were too busy dealing with day-to-day op-

pany’s 360-degree feedback and performance- erations and client relations to take time off to

management instruments measure (and re- attend the company’s mentoring program.

ward) behaviors that are inconsistent with the Recognizing this skepticism, HR included in

company’s values and culture. It may be coun- the sessions case studies of mentoring relation-

terproductive, for instance, to reward manag- ships and how they helped to improve results

ers for their skills in acquiring new customers if on the job. (The sessions themselves are data

the company’s overall strategy is to focus on driven and led by senior operating executives.)

existing customers by cross selling and offering Specifically, the sessions demonstrate the posi-

bundled products and services. tive correlation between the productive rela-

The second question you need to ask is tionships a manager can have with his or her

whether your leadership development system team members and the economic effectiveness

reinforces the perceptions you want people to of that group or division. Most executives find

have about the company. We’ve found that it a compelling proposition that, with help

there is a direct relationship between a strongly from the mentoring program, they can actively

defined leadership development program at a improve their employees’ skills, increase peo-

company and the types of job candidates the ple’s commitment to work, boost information

company attracts, external stakeholders’ per- sharing, and create better-trained employees

ceptions of the business, and employees’ under- who are willing to accept greater responsibility.

standing of the firm’s values and strategies. For • • •

example, Starbucks employees, all of whom are The companies that shared their stories and

called “partners,” are attracted to the job in part knowledge with us highlighted several critical

because of the company’s talent identity. They aspects of leadership development—in partic-

want to be that cheerful, smiling-to-the-music ular, CEOs’ awareness and acknowledgment

person behind the counter who helps custom- of the importance of succession planning;

ers start the day out right with a venti or a boards’ increased activity in system oversight;

grande. The company’s leadership develop- managers’ refocused attention on people is-

ment program reinforces this identity: Its hiring sues and processes; and HR’s role in facilitat-

and promotion processes put equal weight on ing the entire organization’s ownership of

an employee’s functional capabilities and his or leadership development. As their experiences

her ability to fit in with the company’s values demonstrate, a leadership development pro-

and beliefs system. And to preserve the com- gram need not be a ragbag of training pro-

pany’s culture in this time of rapid growth, grams and benefits. Properly thought through,

Starbucks has added a component to the pro- it can be a major part of a company’s value

gram, called Leading from the Heart, which proposition—one that competitors can’t even

helps existing managers transmit Starbucks’s understand, much less copy.

customer-friendly (and brand-centric) ethos to

new hires. Our colleague Gianni Montezemolo passed away just be-