SOURCE: Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended on It (HBR).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.02 HFT - Succession Planning
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: This passage discusses how Tyson and Starbucks implemented integrated succession planning and leadership development systems to groom internal talent and ensure smooth leadership transitions.
KEYWORDS: succession planning, leadership development, talent management
---

atkearney.com) is a senior manager ting it well into the Fortune 100—it had, in its granted. They sat down with a blank sheet of

with A.T. Kearney’s transformation prac- 70 years, invested very little in leadership de- paper and mapped out their ideal leadership

tice in Atlanta, specializing in organiza- velopment. And the organization had no in- development system for Tyson. The blueprint

tional effectiveness. grained systems, tools, or processes to ensure a they came up with integrated succession plan-

harvard business review • october 2005 page 3

Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended on It

ning and leadership development, made sure him push his business agenda. Ultimately,

that promising leaders would be well versed in Smith’s actions focused attention on emerging

all aspects of the company’s business, and put leaders throughout the company.

the accountability for succession planning and Two years into the job, Smith knew that the

leadership development squarely on the shoul- internal contenders would still be too unsea-

ders of John Tyson’s direct reports. “Leaders at soned for the CEO position by his exit date.

all levels were either in or out,” Tyson recalled. Starbucks was under pressure to grow its lead-

They couldn’t waffle about contributing their ers as fast as the business was expanding, from

time and effort to the new talent development approximately 8,500 global retail locations to

system; they couldn’t “protect” talent, hoard re- about 30,000 sites, half of them outside the

sources, or declare themselves immune from United States. Because of his early commit-

succession planning, he said. ment to succession planning, Smith knew

enough about the internal CEO candidates—

An Integrated Approach and decided on an outsider, Jim Donald, as a

Succession planning was the critical starting promising successor. Donald had an estab-

point for Tyson’s new program—as it was for lished record in supermarket expansion as

all the leading-edge companies we observed. chairman, president, and CEO of Pathmark, a

Succession planning should drive leadership 143-unit regional grocery chain. He was re-

development at a company; that sounds rea- cruited to Starbucks specifically to become the

sonable enough but is hard for many manag- next CEO.

ers to accept. That’s because many people, Starbucks gave Donald 90 days of dedicated

from the CEO on down, consider the word immersion. He worked in the stores to under-

“succession” taboo. Planning your exit is like stand the customer experience, and he ob-

scheduling your own funeral; it evokes fears served firsthand the operations in the coffee-

and emotions long hidden under layers of de- roasting plants. Then Donald was made re-

fense mechanisms and imperceptible habits. sponsible for North American operations, Star-

Perversely, the desire to avoid this issue is bucks’s largest business. Progressively, he be-

strongest in the most successful CEOs. Their came accountable for more pieces of the

standard operating procedure is to always company. One of his first major tests was to de-

look for the next mountain to climb, not to velop his own succession plan and to execute

step down from the mountain and look for a against it in order to move to a larger role him-

replacement. self. Smith and Starbucks’s board members

We recently conducted a leadership and tal- paid close attention to Donald’s ability to as-

ent management survey with 20 CEOs in large sess and develop a talented leader who could

corporations, representing a variety of indus- take over Donald’s assignments and provide

tries and locations. Although all 20 executives the right fit with the leadership team.

agreed that having the right talent in the right As Starbucks’s experience shows, CEOs need

roles was critical for their companies’ success to embrace succession planning to achieve

and that a talent management program was their own legacies and the financial success of

important for developing effective leaders, al- the organizations they leave behind. By inte-

most half had no succession plans for VPs and grating succession planning and talent devel-

above. Only one-fourth of the CEOs had talent opment, CEOs can alert the rising stars in their

pipelines that extended at least three manage- companies to potential leadership opportuni-

rial levels below them. ties well in advance; and they and their boards

Meanwhile, those CEOs who are effective at can more accurately assess their bench

building strong leadership teams tend not to strength. When the process runs smoothly,

have any reservations about succession; they boards have a strong sense of whether a com-

embrace succession planning and integrate it pany’s incumbent leadership team will be able

closely with the company’s management-train- to execute important strategic initiatives in the

ing and development programs. When Orin future. The company also gains because of

Smith became president and CEO of Starbucks minimal disruption to the business, share-

in 2000, for instance, he made it a top priority holder confidence and positive analyst ratings,

to plan his own succession. He established an and reduced costs of external hiring for senior

exit date—in 2005, at age 62—which helped executive positions.

harvard business review • october 2005 page 4

Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended on It

The consumer products company S.C. leaders, operating managers, not HR execu-

Johnson & Son also uses an integrated ap- tives, are at the front line of planning and de-

proach. Its performance appraisal program velopment. In fact, many senior executives

identifies the rising stars in the company’s now hold their line managers directly responsi-

hard-to-fill management and technical posi- ble for these activities. In this worldview, it is

tions, evaluates them through 360-degree feed- part of the line manager’s job to recognize his

back, and determines potential leaders’ readi- subordinates’ developmental needs, to help

ness for promotions. The well-oiled program them cultivate new skills, and to provide them

also includes processes to identify “safe posi- opportunities for professional development

tions”—crucial jobs with reinforced retention and personal growth. Managers must do this

strategies and ready replacements. The tight even if it means nudging their rising stars into