SOURCE: Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended on It (HBR).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.02 HFT - Succession Planning
TOPIC: Talent Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of leadership development and succession planning for organizations, highlighting how some companies have made it a priority.
KEYWORDS: leadership development, succession planning, talent management
---

a similar sense of urgency—though we velopment has not been a primary focus for

wouldn’t necessarily advocate starving them CEOs, senior management teams, and boards,

into it. Traditionally, boards have left these their organizations will be more likely to make

tasks very much up to their CEOs and human wrong decisions. Firms may be forced to pro-

resources departments. There’s a simple reason mote untested, possibly unqualified, junior

why directors pay so little attention to these ac- managers. Or they might have to look outside

tivities: They don’t perceive that a lack of lead- for executives, who could then find it difficult to

ership development in a company poses the adjust to their new companies and cultures.

same kind of threat that accounting blunders Some companies, however, have not only

or missed earnings do. recognized the importance of including succes-

harvard business review • october 2005 page 2

.DEVRESER

STHGIR

LLA

.NOITAROPROC

GNIHSILBUP

LOOHCS

SSENISUB

DRAVRAH

5002

©

THGIRYPOC

Growing Talent as if Your Business Depended on It

sion planning and leadership development on steady supply of qualified talent. When he

the board’s agenda but have also taken steps to took the reins in 2000, Tyson had made it his

ensure that those items get on the docket. goal to change all that, and the company, over

Over the past three years, we have undertaken the next two years, experimented with several

extensive fieldwork with many of these compa- leadership development initiatives.

nies, conducting multiple interviews and ana- These experiments all followed a similar

lyzing their varied approaches to successful course. Typically, Tyson or a member of his se-

leadership planning and development. We nior management team would read an article

have found that the best of their programs all or hear about an interesting initiative at an-

share some common attributes. They are not other company, such as a mentoring program.

stand-alone, ad hoc activities coordinated by Then he or one of his colleagues would chat

the human resources department; their devel- with Ken Kimbro, the senior vice president of

opment initiatives are embedded in the very corporate HR, about the possibility of imple-

fabric of the business. From the board of direc- menting a comparable program at Tyson (the

tors on down, senior executives are deeply in- Tyson Mentor Program, for instance). A few

volved, and line managers are evaluated and weeks later, a Tyson version of the initiative

promoted expressly for their contributions to would be discussed in internal focus groups,

the organizationwide effort. and pilots would be developed.

By engaging managers and the board in this One time, John Tyson was invited by the CEO

way, a company can align its leadership devel- of a prominent company to see how that organi-

opment processes with its strategic priorities. zation monitored its emerging leaders’ progress.

The company can also build a clear and attrac- When he returned to the offices, he cleared out

tive identity; its employees perceive that lead- an entire conference room and plastered on its

ership development processes are what they walls pictures of Tyson’s rising-star managers,

are declared to be. Such coherence, identity, with descriptions of their job experiences, edu-

and authenticity, in turn, make it easier for the cational backgrounds, strengths and weak-

company to attract the future leaders it needs. nesses, and development paths. Another time,

In the following pages, we’ll describe what Tyson personally approved a budget to send the

some of the companies we’ve been observing company’s high-potential managers to leader-

are doing to create strong, effective succession- ship retreats on a remote Rio Grande ranch.

planning and leadership development pro- The managers worked to solve actual business

grams. First, let’s take a closer look at where challenges facing the company, reflected on

many companies go wrong when they set out their personal leadership styles, and broadened

to grow great managers. their spheres of influence by meeting other

high-potentials within the company. For its

Jeffrey M. Cohn (jcohn@bench-strength. Every Which Way part, Tyson’s HR group found it hard to keep up

com) is the president of Bench Strength Tyson Foods, a family-controlled company with the rush of programs.

Advisors in New York, a former research based in Springdale, Arkansas, provides a Despite John Tyson’s efforts and the popu-

associate at Harvard Business School in good example of where companies can fall larity of many of his initiatives, the company’s

Boston, and a former fellow at Yale short in leadership development. Every time talent pipeline was still not producing enough

School of Management’s Chief Execu- CEO John Tyson, grandson of the company quality leaders, and by the summer of 2002,

tive Leadership Institute in New Haven, founder with the same name, picked up a jour- the CEO realized that his ad hoc approach to

Connecticut. Rakesh Khurana nal, newspaper, or business magazine, he saw leadership development was not working. He

(rkhurana@hbs.edu) is an associate yet another story of how iconic companies like formed a senior executive task force to look

professor of organizational behavior General Electric set the standard in churning into the problem. The team included himself,

at Harvard Business School and the out future leaders, and he was frustrated in his his direct reports, and a small group of exter-

author of Searching for a Corporate ambition to leave a similar legacy. nal succession-planning experts, who were

Savior: The Irrational Quest for Charis- It was a big ambition. Despite Tyson’s size there to ensure objectivity and high standards

matic CEOs (Princeton University Press, after its merger with IBP in 2001—the com- and to help facilitate buy in.

2002). Laura Reeves (laura.reeves@ pany’s market cap was around $25 billion, put- The task force members took nothing for

atkearney.com) is a senior manager ting it well into the Fortune 100—it had, in its granted. They sat down with a blank sheet of

with A.T. Kearney’s transformation prac- 70 years, invested very little in leadership de- paper and mapped out their ideal leadership