SOURCE: HB Area Manager Conference AAR Sept 2015.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.06 HFT - AAR\30 Sep examples
TOPIC: Conference and Event Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses an after-action review of an area manager conference, highlighting what worked well and areas for improvement.
KEYWORDS: after-action review, area manager conference, event management, conference organization, training program
---

A.A.R. - AFTER ACTION REVIEW

Your Name & Position Ashleigh Youkhana AAR Eloise, Vanessa, Area Managers,

Operations Manager Participants Simon, Paige

Name of Event: Area Manager Conference Date of Event: 7th – 9th September 2015

Who has called the Eloise

AAR

THE GOOD  Presentations were well received, topics covered were relevant and appealed to all the

What worked well? AM’s (State’s vs. new AM’s). (Refer to agenda on G- Drive)

 Having different presenters kept things fresh during the 3 days.

 Conference schedule over the 3 days worked well instead of trying to fit everything

over a 2 day period.

 Having different AM’s be presenters (VIC girls and Darrien) was a great way for the

Honeys learn from each other. This was very well received by the Honeys.

 Having and external presenter (Annette from BNT) who was an expert in their field

 Accommodation was great, very close to the office, also had 4 Honeys to a room which

meant we saved on costs.

 All meals and catering were healthy and delivered on schedule which kept the Honeys

focused.

 Splitting the conference and having the Honeys attend the Richard Branson seminar

meant that the training was broken up. Kept them engaged. – need to do something

similar next year

 Training the Honeys on data integrity and the importance of stock takes, followed by

completing a stock take that evening was a great way of putting into practice what they

learnt. Skills practices like this are a must!

 Having a clear agenda for each day meant that we could prepare each session and

deliver training as per our expectations. Apart from the delays on the first day (airlines)

the sessions were managed to timeframes and clearly wrapped up.

 After the conference all the AM’s rated it a 9/10, and said that it was far more engaging

than the last.

THE BAD  Organisation of the conference was started too late (2 weeks prior). Whilst the

What could be execution was fantastic and the best conference yet, a lack of organisation led to Eloise

improved? – provide needing to step in.

as much detail as

 Different people communicating to presenters meant that people were confused on

possible

what they actually needed to prepare for and present.

 Late preparations put unnecessary stress on Simon in putting together the presentation

slides.

 The chairs in the boardroom were uncomfortable for the Honeys, even with the

cushions provided.

 The boardroom became cluttered with notepads, laptops, drinks, worksheets and

handbags on the floor; we may need to look at a new venue next time.

 Some Honeys did not focus enough during the evening stock take, however this was

more of a performance issue rather that content being the problem

 Richard Branson conference was good, however not relevant content for the Honeys.

Next time we should look at something that will add significant value or team building

activities.

Monday, 28 September 2015 Honey Birdette Pty Ltd Page 1 of 2

Commercial In Confidence Version Number: 1.0

THE UGLY  Jet Star flights for all the Honeys were cancelled or delayed the morning of the

What could be conference; this put us behind by 3 hours. Whilst we saved over a $1,000 on these

improved? – provide flights, for key events that are really time sensitive we must make sure we book with

as much detail as more reliable airlines.

possible  Having the delay in flights and being behind schedule meant we had to rush through

the Finance and VIC presentations. This was disappointing as the Honeys wanted more

time spent on these areas.

Additional Comments:  Next conference we want to cover Appraisal Training with the AM’s .

 We would like there to be some difference between SM & AM's in next conference so

maybe bringing the SM's in a day earlier.

 Breaks for calls to be mandatory. These were not done according to schedule due to

the delay in flights.

The overall conference was a big success and definitely worth the investment. The topics

covered were relevant and on point for where each Honey was in their career. New AM’s and

State Managers were all able to get something out of it. Next conference we are confident we

will not have the same issues as this year when it comes to organising everything as everyone

here is now aware of the expectations on how this needs to come together.

Actions to improve -  Operations team to start preparing for the February conference at least one month in

including persons advance. – Belinda to call an Action Plan meeting Monday 18th Jan 2016

responsible & dates:  Organise an E-Tivity presentation for the next conference – Bronwyn to start putting

this together on Tuesday 19th Jan 2016

 Flights to be booked as early as possible to get the best rate, avoid Jetstar if possible –

Kirsten to start looking into this Tuesday 19th Jan 2016

 Nominate one person from the Op’s team to communicate to the presenters to avoid

confusion and to ensure everyone is on the same page – Belinda Monday 18th Jan 2016

 Sending out a Conference Wrap to the Honeys asking for feedback on how we could

improve the session, this will help us for the next conference.

 We need to ask the Honeys after the conference what they will ‘Start, Stop & continue’,

this was a great way to see where the girls are at and how they are going to apply their

learning’s.

Date for follow up Monday 18th January 2016

meeting

Monday, 28 September 2015 Honey Birdette Pty Ltd Page 2 of 2

Commercial In Confidence Version Number: 1.0