SOURCE: HBR How do customers judge quality in an e-tailer.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Website Usability and Design
SUMMARY: Customers judge the quality of an e-tailer's website based on ease of use, visual appeal, and reliable functionality.
KEYWORDS: website usability, online shopping experience, e-commerce design, web navigation, product presentation
---

has. In an online setting, customers associate ease of use with transaction. It is equivalent to the atmospherics in a brick-and-

freedom from significant mental effort.3 mortar store. Customers want a Web site that is visually pleasing

One of the strengths of online retailing — endless shelf space but not distracting. Excessive use of animation, flashing colors

— can quickly turn into a weakness if a Web site is difficult to use. and scrolling words can take away from the shopping experience.

Customers want easy-to-use search engines that allow them to Additionally, retailers must be aware of text size and font along

find products quickly. For instance, Amazon.com Inc. has a wide with colors that are conducive to reading. For instance, red letters

variety of products spanning numerous product lines. If custom- on a blue background and blue letters on a red background are

ers are not given a way to quickly narrow choices down to an extremely difficult to read. Online retailers must be mindful of

acceptable number, they will turn to other online retailers and/or how easy the Web site is to read and must ensure proper spacing

brick-and-mortar retailers for their product purchases.4 Best Buy between columns and lines of text.

Company Inc.’s Web site is a good example of how to easily allow Online retailers also need to include both detailed descrip-

patrons to search for a product. Online customers are allowed to tions and visual representations of products. Customers often

search for products based on category and are then allowed to need to see the object to verify and justify a purchase decision.

further refine their search within each category based on relevant Thumbnail images are an increasingly popular technique with

product attributes such as brand name, price range and types of many retailers that offer a large variety of products. Retailers such

processors. Best Buy allows customers to a find a product with as Lands’ End Inc. have added a “try it on” function that allows

the fewest “clicks” possible. Ease of navigation is also extremely the customer to see a clothing item on a mannequin that has their

important. Without it, customers can get lost and could ulti- individual measurements. With this function, customers can ac-

mately leave the Web site in frustration. Finally, a retailer’s Web tually view how the clothing will look on their own body type

site should prompt for missing information or alert the customer before purchasing the item.

when an error has been made.

Consistency and Flexibility Reliability or consistency of a Web site’s

Privacy Customers want to know that their Web site interactions function is necessary in order to build and maintain an online

are private and their information is safe. For example, customers customer base. Customers use phrases such as “this Web site is al-

must feel assured that credit card information is secure and pro- ways down” and “it’s never working” after only a few visits to a Web

tected from potential hackers. Providing recognized Web site that has reliability issues. Online retailers need to be mindful

assurance seals from reputable security organizations such as that a Web site that experiences problems, thus preventing custom-

VeriSign Inc. and TRUSTe will often quell customers’ security ers from shopping and purchasing products, is the equivalent to

concerns and influence a customer’s decision to make a purchase putting a “closed” sign on a brick-and-mortar store.

with an online retailer.5 For example, in an effort to promote A Web site’s applications and links must also work properly.

online security, Google Inc. has just introduced Google Check- Hyperlinks should not lead to dead ends or fail to carry the cus-

out, a Web site where patrons enter their personal information tomer to the desired Web page. In a conventional brick-and-mortar

Purchased by: Paul Grosmann GROZY@HOTMAIL.COM on June 03, 2014

36 MIT SLOAN MANAGEMENT REVIEW FALL 2006

store, this would be the same as

About the Research

posting a sign directing customers

to the men’s department but actu-

ally leading them to housewares. Our conclusions in this article are based upon a survey designed to assess customers’ evalua-

Hyperlinks that fail to work or tions of their last online retail experiences. The survey took place in a major city, where

work improperly can have a tre- respondents were recruited and prescreened. To qualify for the survey, all respondents had to

mendous influence on customers’ have previously completed an online transaction with an e-tailer. Online auction sites such as

evaluations of quality. eBay Inc. did not qualify as an online e-tailer for this study. Respondents were asked to re-

member their last online transaction and respond to questions in four areas.

An online retailer needs to be

The first area asked questions that specifically related to the interactivity of the customer

mindful of providing a consistent

with the e-tailer’s Web site. This section asked questions about ease of use, navigation, search

service that is flexible enough to

engines, privacy, Web assurance seals, Web site design, graphics and print quality. This sec-

appeal to what may be widely dif-

tion also asked about reliability: how often the site crashed, the accuracy of information

fering types of customers in their

posted and the objectivity of the information. Customers were also asked about their percep-

target markets. To appeal to di-

tion of waiting and how it influenced their quality evaluation of the Web site and e-tailer.

verse elements of a retailer’s target

The second section asked customers to evaluate e-tailers based on delivery of the product

market, a Web site must, for ex- purchased. In this section, questions of order accuracy, order timeliness and order condition

ample, accommodate were asked of patrons who had completed an online transaction. An e-tailer’s ability to ac-

multilingual translations. Addi- commodate flexible delivery dates and rush orders was addressed in this section. Customers

tionally, a Web site must be able to were also asked about the care with which items were protectively packed for shipment.