SOURCE: HBR How do customers judge quality in an e-tailer.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: E-commerce Customer Experience
SUMMARY: This article discusses how online retailers can distinguish themselves by focusing on customer interaction with the website, delivery of the product, and ability to address problems.
KEYWORDS: E-commerce, Customer experience, Online retail, Quality in e-tailing, Heterogeneity in retail
---

FALL 2006 VOL.48 NO.1

SMR222

Joel E. Collier and Carol C. Bienstock

How Do Customers

Judge Quality in an

E-tailer?

Please note that gray areas reflect artwork that has

been intentionally removed.The substantive content

Purchased by: Paul Grosmann GROZY@HOTMAIL.COM on June 03, 2014

of the article appears as originally published.

REPRINT NUMBER 48109

PDFs■ Reprints ■ Permission to Copy ■ Back Issues

Electronic copies of MIT Sloan Management Review

articles as well as traditional reprints and back issues can

be purchased on our Web site: www.sloanreview.mit.edu

or you may order through our Business Service Center

(9 a.m.-5 p.m. ET) at the phone numbers listed below.

To reproduce or transmit one or more MIT Sloan

Management Review articles by electronic or mechanical

means (including photocopying or archiving in any

information storage or retrieval system) requires written

permission. To request permission, use our Web site

(www.sloanreview.mit.edu), call or e-mail:

Toll-free in U.S. and Canada: 877-727-7170

International: 617-253-7170

e-mail: smrpermissions@mit.edu

To request a free copy of our article catalog,

please contact:

MIT Sloan Management Review

77 Massachusetts Ave., E60-100

Cambridge, MA 02139-4307

Toll-free in U.S. and Canada: 877-727-7170

International: 617-253-7170

Fax: 617-258-9739

e-mail: smr-orders@mit.edu

Purchased by: Paul Grosmann GROZY@HOTMAIL.COM on June 03, 2014

How Do Customers Judge

Quality in an E-tailer?

Online retailers must

distinguish themselves C onsumers’ ability to go online to search for and purchase products has dramati-

in three aspects of a cally changed the way organizations are managing customer relationships.

E-commerce has effectively minimized two of the biggest hurdles to providing a

transaction: customer

quality experience in a retailing environment. First, it has minimized “heteroge-

interaction with the neity” by providing a far more consistent experience to every customer. Unlike a service

Web site, delivery of employee, a Web site never arrives late to work, and it is never in a bad mood or inattentive.

A Web site never forgets to sell related products or keep records of previous purchases along

the product and ability

with customers’ purchase preferences. (Though e-commerce has reduced some of the hetero-

to address problems geneity in retail experiences, it has not eradicated it. Web sites can lose server connections and

when they occur. experience technical problems that can have a negative impact on customers.) E-commerce

has also reduced “perishability” in the retail experience by allowing shopping and product

purchases 24 hours a day, seven days a week. With so many customers who consider them-

Joel E. Collier and selves to be “time starved,”1 online organizations are now allowing the customer to decide

Carol C. Bienstock when a transaction will occur.

E-commerce clearly has some advantages over brick-and-mortar retailing, but how does

one online retailer distinguish itself from another? Early research in e-commerce projected

that online retailing would spiral into a never-ending price

war, while recent researchers have discovered that cus-

tomers are more likely to pay higher prices to online

retailers of high quality that they trust.2 We must ask,

How do customers evaluate quality with online re-

tailing? What are the specific aspects of an online

transaction that customers value and use to distin-

guish one Web site from another? We explored these

issues by surveying customers who had recently en-

gaged in an online retail transaction to determine

how they evaluate the quality of their experiences

with online retailers. The results demonstrated that

customers’ perceptions of quality and satisfaction

with online purchases depend upon three things: in-

teraction with the Web site, delivery of the product and

how prepared retailers are to address problems

Joel E. Collier is an assistant professor at Mississippi State

University’s College of Business and Industry in the Depart-

ment of Marketing, Quantitative Analysis and Business Law.

Carol C. Bienstock is an assistant professor of marketing at

Radford University. Contact the authors at jcollier@cobilan.

msstate.edu and cbienstoc@radford.edu.

Purchased by: Paul Grosmann GROZY@HOTMAIL.COM on June 03, 2014

FALL 2006 MIT SLOAN MANAGEMENT REVIEW 35

when they occur. Of the three, product delivery has the strongest and credit card numbers and then can purchase items through

influence on customers’ satisfaction and future purchase inten- sponsored retailers. Google initiates the transaction but does not

tions. (See “About the Research.”) share customer information with the retailer’s Web site, thus add-

ing further security to online purchases by limiting the exposure

Interaction with the Web site of sensitive information to retailers.

A retailer’s Web site is the primary contact point in an online Not only are customers concerned about privacy issues from

transaction, where customers can ascertain a great deal of infor- outside threats such as hackers, but they are also concerned about

mation about an organization’s attention to detail and emphasis online retailers sharing their personal information. There is no

on customer satisfaction. If a Web site is hard to use and visually quicker way for a retailer to raise the ire of online customers than

distracting, customers will often switch to another retailer that to sell e-mail address information to other companies that use

makes the shopping experience easier. Five attributes influence these addresses to send spam. Customers generally feel there is an

how customers evaluate the quality of their Web site interactions. implicit agreement with online retailers that transaction and

profile information will be protected and will not be shared. This

Ease of Use When customers access a retailer’s Web site, they often implicit agreement is the foundation of trust between online re-

find that no formal instructions are provided. Instead, online tailers and potential customers.

retail settings frequently require customers to learn by doing.

This means that a Web site must be extremely intuitive and easy Simple Design The design of the Web site — text, format, style and

to use, regardless of how much computer experience a customer colors — is extremely important in the facilitation of an online

has. In an online setting, customers associate ease of use with transaction. It is equivalent to the atmospherics in a brick-and-

freedom from significant mental effort.3 mortar store. Customers want a Web site that is visually pleasing