SOURCE: HBR -Are You Ready.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2012
TOPIC: Demand Forecasting
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of using multiple forecasting approaches and improving supply-chain speed to reduce forecast errors and enhance retail performance.
KEYWORDS: demand forecasting, forecasting techniques, supply-chain speed, product life cycle, retail performance
---

[Document: HBR -Are You Ready.pdf]

By using historical sales data to pick a diverse group of test stores that matched varying customer preferences, we reduced

forecast errors for each style and color from 30% to 9%.

Use a variety of forecasting approaches.

Most companies we surveyed limit themselves to just one type of forecasting. Generally, a single forecast for each item is

generated by the buyer or by a small group from merchandising. But generating multiple forecasts can be very valuable

because in seeking to understand the differences in those forecasts, managers can explore the assumptions implicit in their

forecasting techniques.

Take Old Navy, a division of the Gap. The company blends bottom-up and top-down forecasting approaches and then

considers the results in a way worth emulating. Bottom-up forecasts are developed by merchandisers and planners who predict

demand for each product based on factors such as current trends in the market, the product’s “fit” with the target customer, and

the complementary products that will also be offered. Top-down forecasts are developed by planners and occur independent of

the bottom-up process. They are based on macroeconomic factors such as the economic growth rate and corporate growth

objectives. The two approaches typically yield different results, which are reconciled during a meeting of managers from both

http://hbr.org/2000/07/are-you-ready/ar/pr 18/07/2012

Are You Ready? - Harvard Business Review Page 4of 8

groups. Old Navy finds that the different processes, and the ensuing discussion, lead to substantially better forecasts.

Supply-Chain Speed

Many products today have such long lead times that retailers can’t call for a change in production—even if they have tracked

early sales, have paid attention to product testing, and know without a doubt that a change is warranted. As one merchant told

us, “We do pay attention to our tests. The problem is we already own the product; the test merely reveals that it will be a dog

once it gets to the stores.” Another retailer maintains an 11-month lead time from placing an order to receiving apparel at the

distribution center—even for products with a life cycle of only three months. Consequently, buyers have to commit to ordering

from a single vendor before any sales data are obtained. They must also specify how much of each product will be delivered to

each store 11 months before the material is received at the distribution center.

Supply-chain speed is clearly a critical component of rocket science retailing, particularly for products that have short life

cycles. A company that can observe early sales and respond quickly with any appropriate additional merchandise can

obviously reduce the likelihood of selling out of hot items. It can also reduce markdowns because its ability to respond with

more products during the season means the retailer can order less initially and cut its losses on products that turn out to be

failures.

World and Zara use similar exemplary practices in this area. Consider how World manages its supply chain. It can manufacture

and deliver an existing product to stores in two weeks. It can design a new product and supply it to stores in as little as three

weeks. How does the company achieve such short response times? First, World does a considerable amount of work with

supply chain partners before it even places an order. The company stores fabrics and findings (buckles, zippers, and so on)

and reserves production capacity at factories in anticipation of demand. At the beginning of a sales season, World, like most

retailers, finds it difficult to predict the sales of each product. It knows that carrying an inventory of finished products is risky.

But the company does find it relatively safe to hold raw-material inventory and reserve production capacity, since forecasts for

those materials tend to be more accurate than forecasts for finished products.

Second, World’s factories troubleshoot production problems—separate from the main manufacturing area. The employees in

the “debug area” work closely with designers at World’s corporate office, changing the product design to enable easier

manufacturing and, at times, replacing hard-to-find raw materials with more easily available materials.

Third, World has empowered its employees in product design, merchandising, operations, and its stores to make some

decisions on their own, thus avoiding the bureaucratic delays that can accompany the decision-making process. For example,

the decision to design, price, procure materials for, and manufacture a new product at World usually involves a meeting of five

or six division managers who work in adjacent offices as a cross-functional team. At other retailers, such a meeting might

involve convening managers located in different cities and might mean getting approval from executives at various levels in the

organization—a more time-consuming process.

Why aren’t other retailers as responsive as World? One common problem at many companies is an “efficiency mentality.” The

apparel retailer with the 11-month product lead time, for example, insisted on placing orders for individual stores instead of

buying in bulk for all the stores and then strategically allocating goods to different stores once materials arrived at the

distribution center. The retailer reduced its transportation costs and its inventory carrying costs at the warehouse, but it limited

its ability to react quickly to market signals.

One distribution center manager told us about a video his company had produced illustrating how distribution efficiency could

be improved. The video showed how fast warehouse personnel could gather garments for shipment if they collected and

packed the reorders in the same mix of sizes—regardless of how many large, medium, and small items an individual store

needed. The video also showed how much longer it took the warehouse staffers to collect the orders when the size mix for

each store varied according to its need. The distribution manager and his peers were confident that the few-seconds-per-

garment time savings would convince store managers that all reorders should be shipped in identical size mixes. Which

begged our question to the manager: “How long does it take you to process garments that come back from the stores unsold

because you haven’t shipped what they need?”