SOURCE: HBR The True Measures of Success.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.11 HFT - Measurement
TOPIC: Financial Performance Metrics
SUMMARY: The article discusses the limitations of common financial performance measures, such as earnings and sales growth, in predicting shareholder returns, and emphasizes the importance of linking nonfinancial measures to value creation.
KEYWORDS: financial performance, shareholder returns, nonfinancial measures, value creation, cause-and-effect
---

another. Earnings data may be moderately predictive of shareholder returns, but they are not

persistent.

Using sales growth as a gauge of value creation falls short for a different reason. While sales growth is

more persistent than EPS growth, it is less strongly correlated with relative total returns to

shareholders (r = 0.27). In other words, sales-growth statistics may be somewhat persistent, but

they’re not very predictive.

Thus the two most popular measures of performance have limited value in predicting shareholder

returns because neither is both persistent and predictive.

Of course, companies also use nonfinancial performance measures, such as product

quality, workplace safety, customer loyalty, employee satisfaction, and a customer’s

willingness to promote a product. In their 2003 HBR article, accounting professors

Christopher Ittner and David Larcker wrote that “most companies have made little attempt

to identify areas of nonfinancial performance that might advance their chosen strategy.

Nor have they demonstrated a cause-and-effect link between improvements in those

nonfinancial areas and in cash flow, profit, or stock price.” The authors’ survey of 157

companies showed that only 23% had done extensive modeling to determine the causes of

the effects they were measuring. The researchers suggest that at least 70% of the

companies they surveyed didn’t consider a nonfinancial measure’s persistence or its

predictive value. Nearly a decade later, most companies still fail to link cause and effect in

their choice of nonfinancial statistics.

But the news is not all bad. Ittner and Larcker did find that companies that bothered to

measure a nonfinancial factor—and to verify that it had some real effect—earned returns on

equity that were about 1.5 times greater than those of companies that didn’t take those

steps. Just as the fast-food chain boosted its performance by determining that its key

metric was store manager turnover, not overall employee turnover, companies that make

proper links between nonfinancial measures and value creation stand a better chance of

improving results.

Companies that link nonfinancial measures

and value creation stand a better chance of

improving results.

Picking Statistics

The following is a process for choosing metrics that allow you to understand, track, and

manage the cause-and-effect relationships that determine your company’s performance. I

will illustrate the process in a simplified way using a retail bank that is based on an analysis

of 115 banks by Venky Nagar of the University of Michigan and Madhav Rajan of Stanford.

Leave aside, for the moment, which metrics you currently use or which ones Wall Street

analysts or bankers say you should. Start with a blank slate and work through these four

steps in sequence.

1. Define your governing objective.

A clear objective is essential to business success because it guides the allocation of capital.

Creating economic value is a logical governing objective for a company that operates in a

free market system. Companies may choose a different objective, such as maximizing the

firm’s longevity. We will assume that the retail bank seeks to create economic value.

2. Develop a theory of cause and effect to assess presumed drivers of the

objective.

The three commonly cited financial drivers of value creation are sales, costs, and

investments. More-specific financial drivers vary among companies and can include

earnings growth, cash flow growth, and return on invested capital.

Naturally, financial metrics can’t capture all value-creating activities. You also need to

assess nonfinancial measures such as customer loyalty, customer satisfaction, and product

quality, and determine if they can be directly linked to the financial measures that

ultimately deliver value. As we’ve discussed, the link between value creation and financial

and nonfinancial measures like these is variable and must be evaluated on a case-by-case

basis.

In our example, the bank starts with the theory that customer satisfaction drives the use of

bank services and that usage is the main driver of value. This theory links a nonfinancial

and a financial driver. The bank then measures the correlations statistically to see if the

theory is correct and determines that satisfied customers indeed use more services,

allowing the bank to generate cash earnings growth and attractive returns on assets, both

indicators of value creation. Having determined that customer satisfaction is persistently

and predictively linked to returns on assets, the bank must now figure out which employee

activities drive satisfaction.

3. Identify the specific activities that employees can do to help achieve the

governing objective.

The goal is to make the link between your objective and the measures that employees can

control through the application of skill. The relationship between these activities and the

objective must also be persistent and predictive.

In the previous step, the bank determined that customer satisfaction drives value (it is

predictive). The bank now has to find reliable drivers of customer satisfaction. Statistical

analysis shows that the rates consumers receive on their loans, the speed of loan

processing, and low teller turnover all affect customer satisfaction. Because these are

within the control of employees and management, they are persistent. The bank can use

this information to, for example, make sure that its process for reviewing and approving

loans is quick and efficient.

4. Evaluate your statistics.

Finally, you must regularly reevaluate the measures you are using to link employee

activities with the governing objective. The drivers of value change over time, and so must

your statistics. For example, the demographics of the retail bank’s customer base are

changing, so the bank needs to review the drivers of customer satisfaction. As the customer

base becomes younger and more digitally savvy, teller turnover becomes less relevant and

the bank’s online interface and customer service become more so.Companies have access

to a growing torrent of statistics that could improve their performance, but executives still

cling to old-fashioned and often flawed methods for choosing metrics. In the past,

companies could get away with going on gut and ignoring the right statistics because that’s

what everyone else was doing. Today, using them is necessary to compete. More to the