SOURCE: HBR making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertai.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Demand Forecasting
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies to improve demand forecasting, including using sales data, creating custom-order systems, and tracking forecasting errors.
KEYWORDS: demand forecasting, sales data, custom-order system, forecasting errors, production planning
---

improve forecasts. The second is to institute a system for tracking forecasting errors.

Sales data early in the season are an obvious source of information that can be used to revise and improve forecasts. But they

are only one kind of indicator. If a company is imaginative, it can usually find or even create better ones. Take the case of

National Bicycle, a subsidiary of Matsushita that manufactures bicycles in Japan under the Panasonic and National brand

names.

Several years ago, National Bicycle found that sports bikes—ten-speed and mountain bikes—had become fashion items sold

in part on the basis of bright, intricate color patterns that changed every year. National’s inability to predict which color patterns

would be hot each year was causing it to overproduce some colors and underproduce others, generating huge losses. To

circumvent the forecasting problem, the company created a custom-order system by which customers were measured for their

ideal frame dimensions and invited to choose their favorite color pattern from a wide selection. Their ideal bike was then

created in the company’s remarkably flexible plant in Kashiwara and delivered to their door two weeks later.

The program has become so popular that nearly half of National’s sports bikes are now custom ordered. But surprisingly, the

system also benefits the rest of National’s operation. The company has found that the most popular colors for its custom-

ordered bikes are an excellent indicator of which colors will be hot across the board for that season. It now uses that

information to guide planning for its mass-produced bikes, which has greatly reduced losses due to overproduction and

underproduction.

As an organization begins to improve its forecasts, it must also systematically track its errors. Most operations managers have

an opinion of the accuracy of forecasts in their company, but too often that opinion takes the form of grousing about the latest

blunder made by the marketing department. “They forecast we’d sell 2 million cans of mint-flavored dog food, so we made 2

million cans and now we have a 28-year supply sitting in our warehouse.” Clearly, a more systematic approach is needed.

Companies should note when a forecast was made, on what information it was based, and its level of detail (for example, was

it on the aggregate or the SKU level?), and they should later compare it with actual demand.

For an existing product with at least one season of demand history, it may be possible to use past forecasting errors to predict

future forecasting accuracy. Otherwise, we recommend the approach employed by Sport Obermeyer: convene a panel of

experts to make independent forecasts, and use the variance in their predictions to measure the accuracy of the forecasts.

Using risk-based production sequencing requires plants to be flexible enough to switch between various seasonal products and

to have access to required materials and components when they are needed. Achieving optimal flexibility may entail changes

in equipment or require limiting risk-based production sequencing to product families that run on the same equipment. Ensuring

access to the right supplies requires extensive discussions with suppliers to find a way to meet both parties’ needs. For

example, the suppliers’ need for early commitment might be satisfied if the company specifies only the total volume

requirements early. The company’s need for flexibility might be satisfied if the suppliers allow it to postpone specifying the mix

of supplies it needs until market trends become clear.

Finally, for all decisions about supply chain changes and production planning, it is important to adopt a framework rooted in a

probabilistic model of demand. Contrary to what many believe, market uncertainty is a manageable risk.

Reference

1. This assertion is based in part on the study by Robert M. Frazier “Quick Response in Soft Lines,” Discount Merchandiser,

January 1986, p. 40.

Marshall L. Fisher is the Stephen J. Heyman Professor and codirector of the

Manufacturing and Logistics Research Center at the University of Pennsylvania’s

Wharton School in Philadelphia.

Janice H. Hammond is associate professor at the Harvard Business School and

cofounder of the Harvard University Center for Textile and Apparel Research in

Boston, Massachusetts.

Walter R. Obermeyer is a principal of Sport Obermeyer, Ltd., in Aspen,

Colorado, and a graduate of the Harvard Business School.

Ananth Raman is assistant professor at the Harvard Business School.

http://hbr.org/1994/05/making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertain-world/ar/pr 18/07/2012