SOURCE: HBR How do customers judge quality in an e-tailer.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Online Retail Quality Perception
SUMMARY: Customers judge online retailers based on trust, service quality, and delivery timeliness, and will continue to patronize high-quality retailers they trust.
KEYWORDS: online retail, service quality, customer trust, delivery timeliness, customer satisfaction
---

revenue stream from a dissatisfied customer. Finally, our findings imply that although indicators of trust in

Though many customers may be satisfied with an apology an online retail environment may be somewhat unique due to the

for the service failure, some service failures and some customers physical separation of buyer and seller, the fundamental nature of

require compensation, financial or otherwise. For example, if a trust remains the same. Customers will continue to patronize

customer places an order with a retailer, requests a seven- to high-quality online retailers that they trust.

10-day delivery and fails to receive the order in the requested

time period, the customer should not be penalized for the re-

REFERENCES

tailer’s mistake. Many online retailers will resend an item that

failed to be delivered, but will make the customer wait another 1. N. Koiso-Kanttila, “Time, Attention, Authenticity and Consumer Bene-

fits of the Web,” Business Horizons 48, no. 1 (2005): 63-70.

seven to 10 days before the item arrives. The customer could

2. E. Brynjolfsson and M.D. Smith, “Frictionless Commerce? A Compari-

therefore be waiting more than 20 days to receive the order. Very

son of Internet and Conventional Retailers,” Management Science 46,

few customers would initiate a transaction with an online re- no. 4 (2000): 563-585.

tailer if they knew it would take three weeks to receive the item. 3. F.D. Davis, R.P. Bagozzi and P.R. Warshaw, “User Acceptance of

Online retailers need to be mindful of the extended waiting that Computer Technology: A Comparison of Two Theoretical Models,”

Management Science 35, no. 8 (August 1989): 982-1003.

has already occurred and provide express delivery of an item

4. J. Wind and A. Rangaswamy, “Customerization: The Next Revolution

that failed to reach the customer the first time. This especially

in Mass Customization,” Journal of Interactive Marketing 15, no. 1 (win-

applies to customers who have paid a premium price for a short ter 2001): 13-32.

delivery time. Another form of compensation might be for the 5. M.D. Odom, A. Kumar and L. Saunders, “Web Assurance Seals: How

online retailer to provide merchandise discounts or free ship- and Why They Influence Consumers’ Decisions,” Journal of Information

Systems 16, no. 2 (fall 2002): 231-250.

ping on future orders.

6. T.L. Esper, T.D. Jensen, F.L. Turnipseed and S. Burton, “The Last Mile:

An Examination of Effects of Online Retail Delivery Strategies on Con-

SEVERAL IMPLICATIONS FOR THE FUTURE of e-tailing can be drawn sumers,” Journal of Business Logistics 24, no. 2 (2003): 177-203.

from our findings. First, because of the overwhelming impor- 7. C.C. Bienstock, J.T. Mentzer and M.M. Bird, “Measuring Physical Dis-

tance of the outcome of an online retail transaction to customers, tribution Service Quality,” Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science

25, no. 1 (winter 1996): 31-44.

it is not necessarily a question of e-tailing versus brick-and-mor-

8. B.B. Holloway and S.E. Beatty, “Service Failure in Online Retailing: A

tar retailing. Instead, in the case of retailers that maintain both

Recovery Opportunity,” Journal of Service Research 6, no. 1 (August

online and brick-and-mortar retail environments, in order to 2003): 92-105.

enhance customers’ perceptions of quality, these two environ-

ments must be managed so that they are seamless to the retail

Reprint48109. For ordering information, see page 1.

customer. For example, a customer who purchases a microwave Copyright© Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2006. All rights reserved.

Purchased by: Paul Grosmann GROZY@HOTMAIL.COM on June 03, 2014

40 MIT SLOAN MANAGEMENT REVIEW FALL 2006