SOURCE: HBR -Are You Ready.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2012
TOPIC: Demand Forecasting and Inventory Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses how early sales data can help predict demand and improve inventory management, with examples of retailers like World Company, Zara, and CompUSA using this approach.
KEYWORDS: demand forecasting, inventory management, early sales data, product lifecycle, retail practices
---

[Document: HBR -Are You Ready.pdf]

and music.

No Need for a Crystal Ball

Early sales data can help to predict demand for the life cycle of a product—particularly a fashion item. The information at right

is from an apparel catalog company. The graph on the left plots actual life cycle demand against the forecasts made by a

committee of four merchandisers. The graph on the right plots actual life cycle demand against forecasts based on sales

observed during the product’s first two weeks on the market, which accounted for 11% of the season’s demand. The latter

results in a forecast margin of error that is significantly less than the experts’ forecast.

But despite the potentially high payoff—and a commonly accepted belief among retailers that early sales are a good indicator of

future sales—many of the companies we surveyed had no systems in place to exploit early sales data. One retailer, for

http://hbr.org/2000/07/are-you-ready/ar/pr 18/07/2012

Are You Ready? - Harvard Business Review Page 3of 8

example, ordered garments and committed specific quantities of each stock-keeping unit (SKU) to each of its stores 11 months

before the product was even available to the public. Even retailers that paid attention to their early sales data updated their

forecasts in an ad hoc manner when sales greatly exceeded or fell far short of original predictions.

Several companies have retailing practices worth emulating, however. Japan-based World Company and Spain-based Zara

are fashion retailers whose merchants systematically examine early sales data to estimate future demand for various products.

They conduct this analysis for every product at predetermined periods in its sales cycle. And the merchants follow through,

immediately reordering items that look as though they may end up in short supply. Not surprisingly, World Company has

achieved a gross-margin return on inventory investments of more than 300%—a substantially higher return than any other

retailer we are aware of.

Dallas-based CompUSA, which sells computers and associated merchandise, has found that even one or two days of early

sales data can be very useful to predict sales and replenish its inventory for PCs. Buyers monitor the sales of a certain product

line soon after it is launched and update their forecasts based on those observations. They expedite orders for PCs that are

selling better than expected and, when possible, they decline items that have not been shipped. This process of reading and

reacting to market signals has improved CompUSA’s ability to match supply with demand.

Finally, book and music retailer Borders Group uses historical sales data to customize the product assortment in each of its

stores. Borders tracks sales at each store by product category. It uses its merchandise planning system to automatically adjust

the inventory at a store based on sales in each product category. Thus, a store in Anchorage, Alaska, would carry a wide

assortment of books about small planes because sales for such books tend to be high at that outlet, while the Boston store

might stock relatively few items in this category because demand is lower there. Why don’t more retailers customize their

inventories? The answer, as we explain later on, lies in slow supply chains, inadequate or inaccurate data, the inability to

measure stockouts and forecast error, and planning software that is inappropriate for the retailer.

Track and predict forecast accuracy.

Only nine of the 32 retailers in our study said they analyzed the accuracy of their forecasts. And yet, tracking forecast errors,

and understanding when and why they occur, is fundamental to improving accuracy. Even more important, knowing the margin

of error on a forecast is vital to being able to react when the forecast is wrong. For example, if past forecasts for a certain

product have been wrong by plus or minus 50%, when a merchant says you’ll sell 10,000 of that item, that really means you’ll

sell between 5,000 and 15,000 units. Instead of buying 10,000, it might be smarter to buy 5,000 finished units and materials for

an additional 10,000 units to be assembled quickly if early sales are strong.

World Company tracks and predicts forecast accuracy by item using the “Obermeyer method”: new products are displayed in a

room at corporate headquarters just as they would be in a retail store, and about 30 store employees, who are chosen to

represent the company’s target customers, estimate the likely success of each product. World has found that the products that

generate greater disagreement among the employees are likely to have less-accurate forecasts.

Get the product testing right.

An impressive 78% of the retailers in our study test new products in a few stores before the actual product launch. But almost

all the buyers said their test methods are highly unscientific and that any results that indicate that certain products will be

unsuccessful are often ignored. Merchants often believe their products will sell well despite unfavorable test results; they blame

the weather (bad or good), the poor choice of test sites, the inferior execution of tests, and other factors for suboptimal sales.

When a product testing method is developed with care and refined on a regular basis, the results can substantially improve

forecasts. We helped develop a testing method at one apparel retailer that predicts the sales of a product based on the early

sales at a few carefully selected test stores. We found that the selection of stores greatly affected the quality of the forecasts.

By using historical sales data to pick a diverse group of test stores that matched varying customer preferences, we reduced

forecast errors for each style and color from 30% to 9%.

Use a variety of forecasting approaches.

Most companies we surveyed limit themselves to just one type of forecasting. Generally, a single forecast for each item is

generated by the buyer or by a small group from merchandising. But generating multiple forecasts can be very valuable

because in seeking to understand the differences in those forecasts, managers can explore the assumptions implicit in their

forecasting techniques.