SOURCE: HBR making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertai.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Supply Chain Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses how Black & Decker and Sport Obermeyer adapted their supply chain to meet changing customer demands and market conditions.
KEYWORDS: supply chain, fashion industry, customer-centric, flexible manufacturing, just-in-time delivery
---

demands, notes Al Strumar, the company’s former vice president of advanced manufacturing technology. In the power tool

industry, stiff competition has meant an increased variety of products and a need for faster delivery. Also, to some extent,

power tools have become fashion items that compete with ties and compact discs for Father’s Day and Christmas gift

purchases. As a result, a few years ago, some of Black & Decker’s largest retailer customers began pushing the company to

deliver smaller orders more frequently—on a just-in-time basis. Those customers also established a policy of canceling any

order that could not be shipped 100% complete and on time. Black & Decker couldn’t meet those exacting requirements using

its traditional planning methods. Top managers’ attention has subsequently turned to making plants fast and flexible so that the

company can respond to rapid changes in market preferences.

How Accurate Response Developed at Sport Obermeyer

Any company that chooses to implement accurate response should obviously tailor the approach to its own situation. But the

case of Sport Obermeyer provides a good example of how it can be done. In fact, the insights that emerged from our analysis

of Sport Obermeyer formed the foundation for the accurate response approach.

In the fashion skiwear business, demand is heavily dependent on a variety of factors that are difficult to predict—weather,

fashion trends, the economy—and the peak of the retail selling season is only two months long. Even so, Sport Obermeyer has

been able to eliminate almost entirely the cost of producing skiwear that customers don’t want and of not producing ski-wear

that they do want by using accurate response. The company estimates that by implementing this approach, it has increased its

profits by between 50% and 100% over the last three years.

Founded in 1950 by German-born aeronautical engineer and ski instructor Klaus Obermeyer, Sport Obermeyer is a leading

supplier in the U.S. fashion-ski-apparel market. Its products are manufactured by a joint venture in the Far East and by

independent manufacturers located in the Far East, Europe, the Caribbean, and the United States. With sales of approximately

$30 million in 1992, Sport Obermeyer had a commanding 45% share of the children’s market and an 11% share of the adult

market.

Nearly all of Sport Obermeyer’s products are newly designed each year to include changes in style, fabric, and color. And until

the mid-1980s, the company’s design-and-sales cycle was relatively straightforward: design the product, make samples, and

show samples to retailers in March; place production orders with suppliers in March and April after receiving retail orders;

receive goods at Sport Obermeyer’s distribution center in September and October; and then ship them immediately to retail

outlets. That approach worked well for more than 30 years: production commitments were based on firm orders, and fall

delivery provided ample time for efficient manufacturing.

In the mid-1980s, however, several factors rendered the approach obsolete. First, as Sport Obermeyer’s sales volume grew,

the company began to hit manufacturing constraints during the peak ski-wear-production period. It was unable to book

sufficient production with high-quality-skiwear manufacturers during the critical summer months to allow all of its volume to be

produced after it had received firm retail orders. As a result, it began booking production the previous November, or about a

year before the goods would be sold, based on speculation about what retailers would order.

Second, the pressure to reduce manufacturing costs and increase variety compelled Sport Obermeyer to develop a more

complex supply chain. (Today a parka sold in the United States might be sewn in China from fabrics and findings—zippers,

snaps, buckles, and thread—sourced from Japan, South Korea, and Germany.) Such a supply chain supported increased

variety and improved production efficiency but greatly increased lead times. Finally, and most important, Sport Obermeyer

successfully launched a line of children’s fashion skiwear. Dealers began demanding earlier delivery, because a substantial

portion of sales in the booming children’s category had begun to take place in August, during the back-to-school season.

To contend with lengthening supply chains, limited supplier capacity, and retailers’ demands for early delivery, Sport

Obermeyer undertook a variety of quick-response initiatives to shorten lead times. First, the company slashed the time it took

to process orders and compute raw-material requirements by introducing computerized systems to support those activities.

Second, because lead times for obtaining raw materials proved difficult to shorten, the company began to anticipate what

materials it would require and pre-position them in a warehouse in the Far East. With materials in hand, Sport Obermeyer was

able to begin manufacturing as soon as it received orders. Third, as delivery due dates approached, the company turned to air

freight to expedite delivery from the Far East to its Denver distribution center. By 1990, those changes had reduced delivery

lead times by more than one month.

In addition, Sport Obermeyer succeeded in persuading some of its most important retailer customers to place their orders

sooner, thereby providing the company with valuable early information on the likely popularity of individual styles. Starting in

http://hbr.org/1994/05/making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertain-world/ar/pr 18/07/2012

Making Supply Meet Demand in an Uncertain World - Harvard Business Review Page 5of 9

1990, the company accomplished this by inviting about 25 of its largest retailer customers to Aspen each February to give them

a sneak preview of the new annual line and to solicit early orders. Every year since then, the orders resulting from this

program, called Early Write, have accounted for about 20% of Sport Obermeyer’s total sales.

Unfortunately, those efforts did not solve the problem of growing stockouts and markdowns. The company still had to base

about half its production on demand forecasts, which was a big risk in the highly volatile fashion industry. Sport Obermeyer

relied on an in-house “buying committee”—a group of company managers from a range of functional areas—to make a

consensus forecast of the demand for each of the company’s various products. But its track record was not particularly