SOURCE: HBR making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertai.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Supply Chain Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses how a model helped Sport Obermeyer improve its supply chain, reduce stockout and markdown costs, and redesign its product line to increase profits.
KEYWORDS: supply chain, demand forecasting, reactive capacity, product redesign, cost reduction
---

improvement increased profits by two-thirds.

The model can also be used to evaluate the cost impact of physical changes to the supply chain. For example, we used the

model together with historical sales data from the 1992–1993 season to estimate how much stockout and markdown costs

would drop as we increased the available amount of reactive capacity—that is, capacity committed in reaction to actual early

demand information.

For Sport Obermeyer’s women’s parkas, stockout and markdown costs would be 10.2% of sales if none of the parkas could be

produced reactively—that is, if all production commitments had to be made before any orders were received. At the other

extreme, those costs would drop to 1.8% if all the parkas could be produced reactively—if all production commitments could be

placed after a certain portion of orders came in. (See the graph “An Ability to React Lowers Costs.”)

http://hbr.org/1994/05/making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertain-world/ar/pr 18/07/2012

Making Supply Meet Demand in an Uncertain World - Harvard Business Review Page 8of 9

It is rarely possible to defer all production until after early demand information has been obtained; the important conclusion is

that even a small amount of reactive capacity can have a dramatic impact on cost. In Sport Obermeyer’s case, producing only

30% of the season’s volume reactively provides nearly half of the potential cost reduction.

Guided by the model, Sport Obermeyer continued to make numerous refinements to its supply chain and product-redesign

process, which collectively had a significant impact. Supply chain changes focused on keeping raw materials and factory-

production capacity undifferentiated as long as possible. For example, in addition to warehousing raw materials, the company

began to book factory capacity for the peak production periods well in advance but did not specify the exact styles to be

manufactured until a later date. Sport Obermeyer assumed the risk of supplying the correct raw materials to the factories. In

exchange, the factories allowed production commitments to be made later.

In addition to making supply chain changes, Sport Obermeyer has merged its design and production departments into one

merchandising department and is thus broadening its strategy to encompass more production concerns. For example, the

company has redesigned its parka line to reduce dramatically the variety of zippers used. Whereas it previously tended to

match the color of both the zipper and its tape to the color of the garment, the company now uses black zippers in several lines

as a fashion element introducing color contrast to the style. In this way, Sport Obermeyer has reduced the number of zippers it

requires more than fivefold. This change has been particularly valuable because of lengthy lead times caused by limited supply

sources for high-quality zippers; the absence of a zipper of a certain length and color could hold up production of an entire style

for months.

Sport Obermeyer is also encouraging designers to use the same kinds of raw materials in their patterns. For example, whereas

each designer previously might have selected a different shade of red for a particular article of clothing, resulting in the

company’s having to work with five or six different shades, now the designers settle on two or three shades for any given

design cycle. Sport Obermeyer has discovered that customers generally don’t notice minute differences in color; they pay

much more attention to a garment’s overall appearance, quality of construction, and special features.

Achieving Accurate Response

When managers set out to assess the cost of stockouts and markdowns to see whether or not an accurate response program

is warranted, they may be in for a surprise. The typical company lacks such information—mainly because tracking sales lost as

a result of stockouts is difficult. But assessing lost sales is well worth the effort; even rudimentary estimates can be useful. For

example, consider a product that sells evenly throughout a ten-week period. If supplies of that product run out at the end of the

eighth week, it is logical to assume that the manufacturer and retailer could have sold 25% more than they had available.

Companies also can change their order-entry systems to capture orders that can’t be filled because of insufficient inventory.

Sport Obermeyer realized that orders during the retail selling season for products that were out of stock and hence could not

be filled were not being entered into the computer. After it changed its system, it found that information invaluable for both

improving forecasts and measuring the cost of insufficient inventory.

Some organizations have made ingenious changes that allow them to improve their estimates of how many sales they have

lost because of stock-outs. Dillard Department Stores’ new policy regarding customer requests provides a good example.

When a store is out of an article requested by a customer, the company will mail that item to the customer at no extra charge

from another Dillard store. Dillard’s original intent was solely to improve customer service and increase sales. However, the

company has reaped an important side benefit. It now has a better understanding of true demand at each store, which allows it

to do a better job of estimating lost sales and forecasting demand.

http://hbr.org/1994/05/making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertain-world/ar/pr 18/07/2012

Making Supply Meet Demand in an Uncertain World - Harvard Business Review Page 9of 9

An important component of an accurate response program is to streamline the supply chain to reduce production and

distribution lead times. Clearly, a reduction in cycle time offers the potential to reduce the cost of stockouts and markdowns by

allowing production decisions to be deferred until more information and better forecasts become available. Yet realizing that

potential also requires changes in forecasting and production planning.

Accurate response requires two changes in forecasting. The first is to be more resourceful in using demand indicators to

improve forecasts. The second is to institute a system for tracking forecasting errors.

Sales data early in the season are an obvious source of information that can be used to revise and improve forecasts. But they