SOURCE: HBR making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertai.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Demand Forecasting and Supply Chain Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the growing need for companies to incorporate demand uncertainty into their production-planning processes, highlighting examples of companies like Timberland and L.L. Bean that have successfully adapted to this challenge.
KEYWORDS: demand uncertainty, production planning, inventory management, forecasting, supply chain
---

capacity. And any retailer that has difficulty predicting demand can likewise benefit by learning which products to order in bulk

before the selling season and which to order in increments during the season.

The Growing Need to Face Demand Uncertainty

A few companies are already using some of the techniques incorporated in accurate response. The Timberland Company, the

fast-growing New Hampshire-based shoe manufacturer, for example, has developed a sophisticated production-planning

system linked to a sales-tracking system that updates demand forecasts. Those systems, along with efforts to reduce lead

times in obtaining leather from tanners, have enabled the company to reduce stockout and markdown costs significantly.

L.L. Bean, the Maine outdoor-sporting-goods company, has started to use its understanding of uncertainty to drive its

inventory-planning decisions. As a direct marketer, Bean finds it easy to capture stockout data. Having discovered that

forecasts for its continuing line of “never out” products are much more accurate than those for its new products, Bean estimates

demand uncertainty differently for each category and then uses those estimates in making product-supply decisions.

But most companies still treat the world as if it were predictable. They base production planning on forecasts of demand made

far in advance of the selling season to provide ample time for efficient production and distribution. And when that approach

results in shortages of some products, and in pipelines filled with obsolete components and finished goods because anticipated

hot sellers have bombed, it is generally seen as a forecasting problem. Everyone unfairly blames the forecasters.

The real problem, though, is that most companies do a poor job of incorporating demand uncertainty into their production-

planning processes. They are aware of demand uncertainty when they create a forecast—witness the widespread reliance on

safety stocks—but they design their planning processes as if that initial forecast truly represented reality. They do this for two

reasons. First, it’s complicated to factor multiple demand scenarios into planning; most companies simply don’t know how to do

it. Second, the dramatic increase in demand unpredictability is fairly recent, so most companies haven’t yet changed their

planning systems to adapt to it. The result, as shown by the sharp increase in department store markdowns in the past two

decades, has been catastrophic. (See the graph “Skyrocketing Markdowns in the Retail Industry.”)

http://hbr.org/1994/05/making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertain-world/ar/pr 18/07/2012

Making Supply Meet Demand in an Uncertain World - Harvard Business Review Page 3of 9

All this is somewhat ironic given the advances during the past 15 years that have ostensibly made it easier to identify and

supply ever-smaller market niches. Point-of-sale scanners have provided a flood of data on consumers’ buying patterns. And

by reducing the cost of making smaller quantities of products, flexible manufacturing has enabled companies to make a much

wider variety of goods—all with the goal of giving customers exactly what they want. Even industries that traditionally have not

been considered fashion driven have been affected. The number of new-product introductions in the U.S. food industry, for

example, has exploded in recent years, from 2,000 in 1980 to 18,000 in 1991.

But frequent introductions of new products have two side effects that most companies are not prepared to address. For one,

they reduce the average lifetime of products; more of them are either at the beginning of their life (when prediction is tough

because there is no demand history) or at the end of their life (when keeping inventory is expensive because the products will

soon become obsolete). For another, as products proliferate, demand is divided over a growing number of stock-keeping units

(SKUs). Even if manufacturers and retailers can forecast aggregate demand figures with some certainty, it is becoming

increasingly difficult to predict how that demand will be distributed among the many SKUs they sell. To visualize this effect,

compare the relative difficulty of predicting who will win a baseball game (the aggregate result) with the difficulty of predicting

who will score more runs in each inning (the result at an SKU level).

Consider the problems General Motors’ Cadillac division faced after redesigning its Seville and Eldorado models. Based on

initial demand forecasts for its 1992 line, General Motors allocated half the capacity of its Detroit-Hamtramck plant to those two

models; the remaining capacity was slated to produce Buicks and Oldsmobiles. However, demand for the Sevilles and

Eldorados quickly exceeded supply: GM’s underproduction of the two models led to the loss of thousands of potential

customers. Scrambling to meet the growing demand, GM changed its allocation and devoted 86% of the plant’s capacity to the

Cadillac models. Eventually, the company allocated all of the plant’s production capacity to the Seville and Eldorado. But the

damage had already been done.

In the computer industry, which is contending with considerable product proliferation, short product life cycles, and a limited

history of specific customer demand, undersupply and oversupply problems are endemic. And in retailing, consolidation in

many segments has given the surviving businesses much more power over suppliers—power they have not been shy about

http://hbr.org/1994/05/making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertain-world/ar/pr 18/07/2012

Making Supply Meet Demand in an Uncertain World - Harvard Business Review Page 4of 9

using to reduce their own vulnerability to an unpredictable market. Kmart, for example, told a number of its toy suppliers last

July that it would in effect buy products from them on a consignment basis: the toy manufacturers were expected to send

products to Kmart distribution centers based on Kmart’s orders, but Kmart would not actually purchase the products unless and

until they were sent from the distribution center to a Kmart store. Products not selling up to expectations would be returned

from the distribution center to the manufacturer.

Black & Decker Corporation lost tens of millions of dollars in sales in less than one year because of increased retailer

demands, notes Al Strumar, the company’s former vice president of advanced manufacturing technology. In the power tool

industry, stiff competition has meant an increased variety of products and a need for faster delivery. Also, to some extent,