SOURCE: HBR - How to give negative feedback in nice companies.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.06 HFT - PARS
TOPIC: Effective Leadership Communication
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of owning mistakes, understanding when not to give feedback, and adopting a continuous improvement mindset to become a better communicator as a leader.
KEYWORDS: feedback, mistakes, continuous improvement, leadership communication, candor
---

Clean up your mistakes once you make them. Making mistakes is natural. Not repairing any damage you do is unkind and not leader-like. If you hurt someone, say you are sorry. If you are misunderstood, own your part in the confusion, explain your intent, and apologize for any upset the confusion caused. You’ll not only be doing the right thing by owning and cleaning up your mistakes but also sending two powerful messages to your organization: leaders make mistakes when they are learning something new, and they say they are sorry.

Understand when not to be candid or give feedback. There are legitimate times when candor and feedback are not the right answer. As my colleague Deborah Grayson Riegel said in a recent article, giving feedback is not the right course of action when the aim is to place blame rather than seek solutions; when you’re overly emotional (think HALT — hungry, angry, lonely, tired); when it’s focused on personality rather than on behavior; when it’s based on hearsay; or when you’ve given lots of other feedback recently.

Adopt a continuous improvement mindset. Watch what you are doing well, and learn from that. Notice where you are avoiding candor, venting, or delivering feedback unskillfully, and learn from that, too. Analyze what is working and what is not, then create strategies to improve. Like learning any new skill, it’s an iterative and never-ending process. I’ve yet to meet a leader who believes she is good enough at candor and feedback.

If this sounds like a lot of work, that’s because it is. There is nothing easy or simple about becoming better at these crucial leadership skills. As Warren Bennis once said, “Leaders know the importance of having someone in their lives who will unfailingly and fearlessly tell them the truth.” Be that person for others.

Jennifer Porter is the Managing Partner of The Boda Group, a leadership and team development firm. She is a graduate of Bates College and the Stanford Graduate School of Business, an experienced operations executive, and an executive and team coach.