SOURCE: HBR making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertai.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Demand Forecasting and Production Planning
SUMMARY: The text discusses critical components of an accurate response program, including assessing demand probability distribution and estimating stockout and markdown costs, using a sophisticated algorithm to generate risk-based production schedules.
KEYWORDS: demand forecasting, production planning, risk-based scheduling, supply chain management, just-in-time
---

company loses if it makes it and cannot sell it ($5.00).

This analysis illustrates two critical components of an accurate response program: assessing a probability distribution for

demand, and estimating the costs of stockouts and markdowns. We have embedded this basic logic into a sophisticated

algorithm that allows us to generate multistage, risk-based production schedules.1

To implement the approach described above, we had to estimate the mean and the standard deviation. For products with

extensive historical demand data, those parameters can be estimated using statistical methods. However, with only a

judgmental forecast available, we had to devise a different approach. We started by asking each member of Sport Obermeyer’s

buying committee to provide us with an individual forecast for each product.

We treated the average of the committee members’ forecasts as the mean of the demand distribution. We estimated the

standard deviation for each style to be twice the standard deviation of the buying committee’s forecasts. We decided to scale

by a factor of two because the average standard deviation of actual forecasting errors in preceding seasons was twice that of

the buying committee’s forecasts.

http://hbr.org/1994/05/making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertain-world/ar/pr 18/07/2012

Making Supply Meet Demand in an Uncertain World - Harvard Business Review Page 7of 9

We believed that forecasts would tend to be more accurate for those styles for which the buying committee members had

similar forecasts—that is, those whose forecasts had a low standard deviation. This hypothesis was confirmed with actual data

from the 1992–1993 season. The close fit between actual and predicted forecasting errors gave us a solid basis for

determining which products were safe to produce before additional sales data became available and which were not. Using this

information along with detailed data about minimum lot sizes and other production constraints, we formulated an appropriate

risk-based production sequence for Sport Obermeyer.

Just as quick-response and just-in-time programs cannot realize their full potential without corresponding changes in planning

systems, neither should those changes in analytical approach exist in isolation. Improvements in supply chain speed and

flexibility are essential to achieving the full potential of an accurate response program.2

1. For a description of the model, see Marshall L. Fisher and Ananth Raman, “The Value of Quick Response for Supplying

Fashion Products: Analysis and Application,” Department of Operations and Information Management Working Paper No. 92-

10-03, The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, 1992.

2. For a description of such supply chain changes, see Janice H. Hammond, “Quick Response in Retail/Manufacturing

Channels,” in Globalization, Technology, and Competition: The Fusion of Computers and Telecommunications in the 1990s,

ed. Stephen P. Bradley, Jerry A. Hausman, and Richard L. Nolan (Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 1993), p. 185.

Sport Obermeyer now had a way to estimate which styles were accurately forecast. But it still had to deal with those styles that

had unpredictable demand. We made the critical—and startling—discovery that even though retailer demand is unpredictable

enough to make accurate forecasting impossible, the overall buying patterns of Sport Obermeyer’s retailers were remarkably

similar. For example, by updating the buying committee’s forecasts using just the first 20% of orders, the accuracy of forecasts

improved dramatically. Naturally, as more orders were obtained, the forecast accuracy continued to improve. (See the second

and third graphs of the exhibit “Improving Forecasts at Sport Obermeyer.”) The challenge then became to devise a production-

planning approach that would recognize and take advantage of that information.

The key to doing this was realizing that the production capacity Sport Obermeyer uses to make ski parkas actually changes in

character as the season progresses. Early in the season, when the company has no orders, that capacity is nonreactive, in the

sense that production decisions are based solely on predictions rather than on a reaction to actual market demand. As orders

begin to filter in, starting with those generated by the Early Write program, that capacity becomes reactive. Now Sport

Obermeyer can base production decisions on the signals it is receiving from the marketplace and on its more accurate

forecasts.

It is important to fill nonreactive capacity with those styles for which demand forecasts are most likely to be accurate, so the

precious reactive capacity can be devoted to making as many of the unpredictable styles as possible. This strategy, which we

call risk-based production sequencing, allows Sport Obermeyer to be as responsive to the market as possible in the areas

where the payoffs are the greatest.

Production planning at Sport Obermeyer is actually more complicated than we have presented; we have streamlined the

process here to provide a general explanation of how accurate response works. In addition, we have omitted several case-

specific factors. For example, in reality, the company must meet production minimums for each style. Also, for styles that have

high enough sales levels relative to the minimums, it can use multiple production runs. That is, a style can be manufactured in

two increments—the first using nonreactive capacity based on a portion of the predicted sales, the second reactively, based on

information derived from actual sales. Further, the styles’ different costs affect their riskiness: other things being equal, more

costly styles carry greater financial risk.

We developed a complex computerized mathematical model to create an optimal production schedule that takes all these

factors into account. The model identifies those products that should be produced nonreactively together with their optimal

production levels. Then, after updating the initial forecast with early demand information, it determines the appropriate reactive

production schedule. We implemented the model’s recommendations and compared its decisions with past practice: using the

model’s recommendations reduced costs by about 2% of sales. Because profits in this industry average 3% of sales, the

improvement increased profits by two-thirds.

The model can also be used to evaluate the cost impact of physical changes to the supply chain. For example, we used the

model together with historical sales data from the 1992–1993 season to estimate how much stockout and markdown costs