SOURCE: HBR making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertai.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Supply Chain Management
SUMMARY: The article discusses the challenges of meeting uncertain demand in a volatile market and proposes a new approach called 'accurate response' to improve forecasting and minimize the impact of inaccurate forecasts.
KEYWORDS: supply chain, demand forecasting, production planning, inventory management, accurate response
---

Making Supply Meet Demand in an Uncertain World - Harvard Business Review Page 1of 9

Making Supply Meet Demand in an Uncertain World

by Marshall L. Fisher, Janice H. Hammond, Walter R. Obermeyer, and Ananth Raman

Thanks to global competition, faster product development, and increasingly flexible manufacturing systems, an unprecedented

number and variety of products are competing in markets ranging from apparel and toys to power tools and computers. Despite

the benefits to consumers, this phenomenon is making it more difficult for manufacturers and retailers to predict which of their

goods will sell and to plan production and orders accordingly.

As a result, inaccurate forecasts are increasing, and along with them the costs of those errors. Manufacturers and retailers

alike are ending up with more unwanted goods that must be marked down—perhaps even sold at a loss—even as they lose

potential sales because other articles are no longer in stock. In industries with highly volatile demand, like fashion apparel, the

costs of such “stockouts” and markdowns can actually exceed the total cost of manufacturing.1

To address the problem of inaccurate forecasts, many managers have turned to one or another popular production-scheduling

system. But quick-response programs, just-in-time (JIT) inventory systems, manufacturing resource planning, and the like are

simply not up to the task. With a tool like manufacturing resource planning, for example, a manufacturer can rapidly change the

production schedule stored in its computer when its original forecast and plan prove incorrect. Creating a new schedule doesn’t

help, though, if the supply chain has already been filled based on the old one.

Similarly, quick response and JIT address only part of the overall picture. A manufacturer might hope to be fast enough to

produce in direct response to demand, virtually eliminating the need for a forecast. But in many industries, sales of volatile

products tend to occur in a concentrated season, which means that a manufacturer would need an unjustifiably large capacity

to be able to make goods in response to actual demand. Using quick response or JIT also may not be feasible if a company is

dependent on an unresponsive supplier for key components. For example, Dell Computer Corporation developed the capability

to assemble personal computers quickly in response to customers’ orders but found that ability constrained by component

suppliers’ long lead times.

We think that manufacturers and retailers alike can greatly reduce the cost of forecasting errors by embracing accurate

response, a new approach to the entire forecasting, planning, and production process. We believe that companies can improve

their forecasts and simultaneously redesign their planning processes to minimize the impact of inaccurate forecasts. Accurate

response provides a way to do both. It entails figuring out what forecasters can and cannot predict well, and then making the

supply chain fast and flexible so that managers can postpone decisions about their most unpredictable items until they have

some market signals, such as early-season sales results, to help correctly match supply with demand.

This approach incorporates two basic elements that other forecasting and scheduling systems either totally or partially lack.

First, it takes into account missed sales opportunities. Forecasting errors result in too little or too much inventory. Accurate

response measures the costs per unit of stockouts and markdowns, and factors them into the planning process. Most

companies do not even measure how many sales they have lost, let alone consider those costs when they commit to

production.

Second, accurate response distinguishes those products for which demand is relatively predictable from those for which

demand is relatively unpredictable. It does this by using a blend of historical data and expert judgment.

Those two elements help companies rethink and overhaul not only every important aspect of their supply chains—including the

configuration of their supplier networks, schedules for producing and delivering unfinished materials, transportation, and the

number and location of warehouses—but also the designs of their products. Armed with the knowledge of which products have

predictable demand and which do not, they can then take different approaches to manufacturing each class of product. Those

in the relatively predictable category should be made the furthest in advance in order to reserve greater manufacturing capacity

for making unpredictable items closer to the selling season. Such a strategy enables companies to make smaller quantities of

the unpredictable products in advance, see how well the different goods fare early in the selling period, and then use that

information to determine which products to make more of.

Accurate response thus enables companies to use the power of flexible manufacturing and shorter cycle times much more

effectively. And the capability to do a better job of matching supply and demand produces savings that drop straight to the

bottom line. One supplier in the fashion-ski-apparel business, Aspen, Colorado-based Sport Obermeyer, Ltd., has slashed its

mismatch costs in half by using accurate response.

By dramatically reducing mismatch costs, this approach also gives companies the option of taking a further action: lowering

prices. Currently, suppliers, distributors, and retailers alike build mismatch costs into their prices. In other words, they try to

make consumers pay more to cover the cost of inaccurate forecasts.

http://hbr.org/1994/05/making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertain-world/ar/pr 18/07/2012

Making Supply Meet Demand in an Uncertain World - Harvard Business Review Page 2of 9

Clearly, companies that make or sell products with long lifetimes and steady sales do not need to make such changes to their

forecasting and planning systems. Forecasts for those products are likely to be consistently close to the mark, and in any case,

the long lifetimes of such products greatly reduce the cost of any forecast inaccuracy. But for companies that deal with

products that are new or highly seasonal, or have short lifetimes, the accurate response approach is essential. Any

manufacturer whose capacity is constrained during peak production periods can benefit from making better use of its off-peak

capacity. And any retailer that has difficulty predicting demand can likewise benefit by learning which products to order in bulk

before the selling season and which to order in increments during the season.