SOURCE: HBR How do customers judge quality in an e-tailer.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Customer Satisfaction in E-commerce
SUMMARY: The text discusses how online customers judge the quality of an e-tailer based on timely delivery and the condition of the product received.
KEYWORDS: delivery timeliness, product condition, customer expectations, customer satisfaction, e-commerce
---

they receive the product. Many customers view themselves as tion of incompetence on the part of an online retailer. In the

“time starved” and will pay premium prices to a have a product customer’s mind, he or she has made the effort to place the order,

delivered on a next-day or two-day schedule. One of the fore- and the retailer needs only to pull the order and ship it. Thus,

most ways to disappoint an online customer is to make him or online retailers must pay attention to detail if they want customers

her wait for delivery of an item past a promised date. Not only to be satisfied and return to their Web site for future purchases.

does late delivery cause a sense of anxiety, but customers experi-

ence a growing sense of dissatisfaction with every day that an The Condition of the Order Customers of brick-and-mortar stores

order is delayed. are very particular about not choosing damaged merchandise or

Online retailers are learning how to offer alternatives to short merchandise in damaged packaging. This same sensitivity re-

delivery schedules by offering free shipping for a certain mini- garding the condition of the product and packaging applies to

mum purchase amount. These offers of free shipping are usually customers shopping online. If a package arrives with a damaged

accompanied by an extended delivery date, such as one to two shipping container, the customer has an understandable concern

weeks. If products are delivered prior to these expected delivery that the merchandise inside the box might be damaged as well.

dates, customers often develop perceptions of high quality. On- Perception is often reality in the mind of a customer, and retailers

line retailers such as Amazon.com, Barnes & Noble and Circuit need to understand that a product must arrive at the customer’s

City have adopted such free shipping options while still giving home as if it were just taken off the showroom floor.

customers who desire them shorter delivery options. Online customers are adamant about receiving products that

Customers who purchase from online retailers are frequently appear similar to the visual representation on the retailer’s Web

quite sensitive to product delivery issues. That was very clearly site. Retailers must ensure that durable and especially perishable

demonstrated in our study, which found that order timeliness products such as food items or plants are delivered in the same

had the strongest impact on customer quality evaluations at the condition as advertised on the Web site. That means that retailers

outcome or conclusion of an online transaction. Customers have need to ensure proper refrigeration or other maintenance of items

high expectations for product delivery and little tolerance for while they are in transit to the customer. Online retailers must

failure. Online retailers that can establish a foundation of deliver- make sure that the “final mile” of the delivery is not also the final

ing products in a timely manner will not only produce higher mile in the life of a product. For example, online florists such as

satisfaction levels, but could also buffer the effects of future deliv- FTD.com and 1-800-flowers.com have taken measures to ensure

Purchased by: Paul Grosmann GROZY@HOTMAIL.COM on June 03, 2014

38 MIT SLOAN MANAGEMENT REVIEW FALL 2006

the good condition of the product delivered and the satisfaction of Web site, by looking at frequently asked questions, online tutori-

the customer by guaranteeing that flowers will stay fresh for seven als, and e-mail addresses of the help desk to resolve the problem.

days after delivery or the customer’s money will be refunded. They do not actively seek human interaction; in fact, they would

The care that online retailers exhibit in packing items for ship- rather avoid it. On the other hand, some customers want to

ment is also important. It is better to be overly cautious than to speak to a person to resolve a problem. When problems occur,

risk a customer opening a package to find it damaged because of these customers are more than willing to give up their role as a

careless packing or carrier handling. Customers who can see how “partial employee” and want the online retailer to take full re-

an item was insulated against the wear and tear of travel will have sponsibility for the resolution of the problem. Sending an e-mail

more confidence that they will receive undamaged products to a nameless help desk, which may take up to 48 hours to re-

when they make future purchases. spond, is not a viable option for these customers. Generally,

Product damage often results not from the online retailer’s when a problem occurs, they want the assurance of talking to a

packaging, but from the carrier’s handling of the order. Regard- person who they know is addressing the problem and doing so

less of this reality, customers of online retailers feel that the quickly. To address this issue, online retailers such as computer

retailer is the one that is responsible. They made a purchase with manufacturer Dell Inc. and networking manufacturer Linksys

the retailer, and they expect the retailer to ensure that the product offer customers the opportunity to talk with a technical support

arrives undamaged. Retailers must be aware of this and convey to representative by phone 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Both

their carriers the importance of this issue in building and main- companies also offer customers the opportunity to chat online

taining relationships with customers. with a representative. Dell and Linksys are making every effort

to enable customers to seek help in the manner that best meets

Addressing Problems When They Occur their specific needs.

The last aspect of the online retail experience that significantly Providing numerous methods for customers to provide feed-

impacts customers’ quality evaluations is a retailer’s ability to re- back and report problems is essential to improving the quality of

cover from a service failure. Of the online shoppers we surveyed, a retailer’s online service operations. If a customer experiences a