SOURCE: HBR -Are You Ready.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2012
TOPIC: Retail Data Accuracy
SUMMARY: Inaccurate inventory and sales data in retail stores due to various causes, and strategies to improve data accuracy.
KEYWORDS: retail data, inventory accuracy, point-of-sale data, data verification, stock-out management
---

[Document: HBR -Are You Ready.pdf]

one of these items multiple times. Clearly, this would cause the inventories of both the lemon and the vanilla yogurt to be

inaccurate. One grocery chain found that sales of medium tomatoes have consistently been 25% higher than the actual

shipment of medium tomatoes to their stores. Checkout clerks frequently entered into their registers the price lookup (PLU)

code for “medium tomato” even if the customer was buying organic, vine-ripe, or other specialty tomatoes. “If it’s red and soft,

it’s a medium tomato at the checkout counter,” remarks the CIO at this supermarket chain. Most checkout clerks are reluctant

to spend extra time to check the PLU code accurately and risk upsetting the customer and their manager, who, in many cases,

is tracking the average rate at which the checkout clerks scan units.

Not all data inaccuracy is caused at the checkout register, of course. One retailer in our study found that inventory records

were inaccurate for 29% of the items at a store that had been stocked but that had not yet opened for customers. The retailer

traced the problem back to its distribution systems; warehouse employees often shipped the wrong item (for instance, sending

small shirts instead of medium shirts, or sending one flavor of yogurt instead of another). Similarly, errors were caused when

changes in vendor case-packs—the number of items shipped per box—weren’t promptly entered in the retailer’s merchandise

replenishment system. In one instance, a vendor changed the dimensions of its case-pack from 144 units to 12 units; the

merchandise replenishment system, unaware of the change, asked the warehouse to ship only one case-pack.

Many retailers don’t know if their information is inaccurate because they don’t track data accuracy. Other retailers track data

accuracy, but the information discovered is not widely disseminated. At one apparel retailer, the merchandisers and planners

had no idea their POS data were inaccurate even though the vice president of planning had, through periodic audits, concluded

that the error in inventory data was close to 30% at the store level.

Some retailers have taken steps to ensure the accuracy of sales and inventory data. One interesting approach, the “zero

balance walk,” is practiced at office-supply superstore Staples. In this system, an employee walks through the store each day

looking for SKUs that are out of stock. For each item that is out of stock, a stockout card is generated and a sticker is placed in

http://hbr.org/2000/07/are-you-ready/ar/pr 18/07/2012

Are You Ready? - Harvard Business Review Page 6of 8

the space reserved for the item. Other employees verify the events—sudden surges in consumer demand, computer data

error, merchandise stocked in the wrong aisle, and so on—that caused the sellout. If the stockout was due to faulty data in the

computer, the inventory level in the computer system is corrected. Performing the zero balance walk each day helps measure

and improve data accuracy at Staples.

Now let’s consider the availability of data. The retailers we surveyed varied in their ability to store and access their sales data.

The median retailer in our study kept two years of sales data accessible on-line. One company kept only six weeks of data for

its employees to use; at the other extreme, another company kept ten years of sales data accessible on-line.

Research Methods

Our formal research on rocket science retailing began after discussions with retailers that had collected large amounts of

consumer and sales data but were struggling to use them effectively. We decided to launch a study to document current

merchandising and supply-chain practices among retailers. We felt that once we understood the retailers’ supply chains well,

we could identify ways in which they could be improved.

Our vision of scientific or rocket-science retailing was shared by the Sloan Foundation, a large number of retailers that

supported the study, and numerous students and academics at various schools who contributed substantially to the project.

For our survey, we selected mostly retailers of innovative, short-life-cycle products such as fashion apparel, shoes, toys,

jewelry, books, music, entertainment software, consumer electronics, and PCs. We thought the unpredictable demand of

these products would make them the hardest cases for retailers. We interacted with the retailers through site visits, written

surveys, and annual conferences to understand their processes for forecasting and managing supply. The following retailers

participated.

Apparel and Footwear—David’s Bridal, Footstar, Gap, G.H. Bass, Maurice’s, Nine West, the Limited, World Company, and

Zara.

Consumer Electronics and PCs—CompUSA, Office Depot, Radio Shack, Staples, the Good Guys, and Tweeter etc.

Books, CDs, Jewelry, Toys, Theme Stores—Borders Group, Bulgari, the Disney Store, Tiffany & Company, TransWorld,

Warner Brothers, and Zany Brainy.

Other Product Categories and Multiple Product Categories—Ahold, Christmas Tree Shops, CVS, Federated Group, HE

Butt Grocery Company, Iceland Frozen Foods, JC Penney, Marks & Spencer, QVC, and Sears.

People often wonder why it’s valuable to keep a history of sales for so many years given how quickly trends change. In fact, the

data contain some useful information about sales patterns that remain stable from year to year, such as seasonality, consumer

reaction to a promotion, and differences in sales patterns at different stores. We have also found that the average forecast

error tends to be reasonably similar from year to year, even if the products have changed almost entirely.

Forecasting product sales is much more difficult for the merchants at companies that lack sufficient on-line data. At the retailer

with only six weeks’ worth of on-line data, merchants referred to heavy stacks of paper copies of sales data from previous

years when estimating future product sales. Given that the cost of computer storage space has fallen sharply, there’s no

reason for retailers not to store sales data electronically and make it easily accessible to their merchants. Those who don’t

either don’t see how the data could be useful in their decision making or made the decision several years ago when computer

storage space was extremely expensive.

Some retailers don’t make even recent sales data available at the detailed level. For example, some apparel retailers track