SOURCE: HBR making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertai.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Demand Forecasting
SUMMARY: The text discusses Sport Obermeyer's efforts to improve its demand forecasting process through independent forecasts and statistical analysis.
KEYWORDS: demand forecasting, consensus forecasting, statistical analysis, product demand, sales forecasting
---

relied on an in-house “buying committee”—a group of company managers from a range of functional areas—to make a

consensus forecast of the demand for each of the company’s various products. But its track record was not particularly

impressive. In the 1991–1992 season, for example, some women’s parka styles outsold the original forecast by 200%, while

sales of other styles amounted to less than 15% of the forecasted amount.

Sport Obermeyer’s managers weighed the alternatives. Could they improve forecasting? Could they further reduce

manufacturing lead times? Wasn’t there some way to take greater advantage of the information generated by the Early Write

program? Could they induce more retailers to place their orders early?

It was at that point that the four of us formed a research team to consider those questions. The accurate response approach

evolved as a result. We realized that the problem was rooted in Sport Obermeyer’s inability to predict what people would buy. A

decision to produce a parka is essentially a gamble that the parka will sell. To help Sport Obermeyer avoid the highest-risk

gambles, we needed a way to determine which products were safest to make before Early Write and which should be

postponed until after the sales information gathered from Early Write became available. Taking the buying committee’s original

forecast as a starting point, we noticed that although some forecasts were indeed off the mark, about half were quite accurate,

differing by less than 10% from actual sales. (See the first graph in the exhibit “Improving Forecasts at Sport Obermeyer.”) Was

there a way to tell which forecasts were likely to be accurate before we saw actual orders?

To answer that question, we first examined the way the buying committee operated. The buying committee had traditionally

provided a single consensus forecast for each style and color. We decided to ask each member of the committee to make an

independent forecast for each style and color. At the beginning, committee members found that request somewhat unsettling.

They were used to a collegial environment; they had been accustomed to arriving at the consensus forecast by holding an

extensive discussion. Under the new system, individuals were responsible for their own forecasts.

But the change proved invaluable for two reasons. First, consensus forecasts rarely represent a true consensus. Dominant

members of a group, such as senior executives, often unduly influence the outcome of a team forecast; they could not do this if

each person had to submit his or her own forecasts. Second, and more important, the new process provided a way to

determine statistically the probable accuracy of the committee’s forecasts for each style.

Indeed, an interesting discovery emerged from the independent-forecasting process. Although the average forecasts for two

http://hbr.org/1994/05/making-supply-meet-demand-in-an-uncertain-world/ar/pr 18/07/2012

Making Supply Meet Demand in an Uncertain World - Harvard Business Review Page 6of 9

parka styles could be the same, the dispersion of individual forecasts for the two styles could differ greatly. For example,

everyone’s forecast for the Pandora parka was close to the average, but the forecasts for the Entice shell were all over the

map. (See the table “How Sample Predictions Differ for Two Products.”) It seemed plausible that the forecast for the Pandora

was more likely to be right than the forecast for the Entice.

At the end of the 1992–1993 season, we were able to test our hypothesis that forecasts would tend to be more accurate when

the buying committee’s members had similar forecasts. The actual sales data showed that the variance in the individual

forecasts was an almost perfect predictor of forecast accuracy. (For a detailed explanation of the forecasting process, see the

insert “Coping with Demand Uncertainty at Sport Obermeyer.”)

Coping with Demand Uncertainty at Sport Obermeyer

Longtime industry player Klaus Obermeyer characterizes the skiwear market as extremely fickle. What possible use could

formal statistical methods have in such an unpredictable setting? You’d be surprised. The trick lies in realizing that although

demand for each product can be highly uncertain, the distribution of demand follows a discernible pattern.

At Sport Obermeyer, we found that demand data followed a normal distribution, which is defined by its mean (average) and its

standard deviation (a measure of the dispersion, or “width,” of the distribution and hence of the level of demand uncertainty).

The graph “Probable Sales of the Pandora Parka” shows a forecast distribution based on the demand predictions of the buying

committee. The area under the curve between two points is equal to or greater than the probability of demand falling between

those points. (For example, the shaded area represents the probability that demand exceeds 1,285 units.) If Sport Obermeyer

were to have only one opportunity to produce Pandora parkas, we would use this curve in the following manner to find the

production quantity that maximizes expected profitability by balancing the risks of overproduction and underproduction.

For the Pandora parka, Sport Obermeyer earns $14.50 in marginal profit for each unit sold and loses $5.00 for each unit

produced and not sold. The company should keep producing parkas as long as it expects the gain from each parka to exceed

the loss. Expected profits are maximized by producing up to the point where the expected marginal gain from producing a

parka is roughly equal to the expected marginal loss from producing that parka. For the Pandora, that occurs when the

company produces 1,285 parkas, because the expected gain from producing the 1,285th parka is approximately equal to the

expected loss from producing that parka. That is, the probability of selling the 1,285th parka (25.7%) multiplied by the profit if

the company sells that parka ($14.50) is roughly equal to the probability of not selling it (74.3%) multiplied by what the

company loses if it makes it and cannot sell it ($5.00).

This analysis illustrates two critical components of an accurate response program: assessing a probability distribution for

demand, and estimating the costs of stockouts and markdowns. We have embedded this basic logic into a sophisticated