SOURCE: HBR -Are You Ready.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2012
TOPIC: Retail Data Management
SUMMARY: Retailers should leverage detailed sales data to optimize their supply chains and improve customer satisfaction.
KEYWORDS: retail data, sales data, supply chain optimization, customer satisfaction, business intelligence
---

[Document: HBR -Are You Ready.pdf]

years when estimating future product sales. Given that the cost of computer storage space has fallen sharply, there’s no

reason for retailers not to store sales data electronically and make it easily accessible to their merchants. Those who don’t

either don’t see how the data could be useful in their decision making or made the decision several years ago when computer

storage space was extremely expensive.

Some retailers don’t make even recent sales data available at the detailed level. For example, some apparel retailers track

their sales according to style, color, and size (each has its own bar code) but they store only the data regarding style and color

in the central computer. So a merchandiser might know how many red blouses in a certain style were sold at a particular store

on a particular day but not if those units were sold in small, medium, or large. Is it any wonder that a recent survey found that

one out of three consumers who enter a clothing store intending to buy something leave without buying because he or she

can’t find their size in stock?

Managers at these retailers claim there is little value in knowing sales by size since their vendors and distribution centers can

ship only in standard size packs, which precludes customizing the size assortments by store or region. Meanwhile, it is difficult

to justify changes to their transportation and warehousing systems that would let them customize their shipments, because

they don’t have the appropriate sales-by-size data that would tell them how to do that. It’s the perfect example of the vicious

cycle these retailers fall into: an inflexible supply chain justifies bad data, which justify an inflexible supply chain.

Costs, Customer Satisfaction, and Morale

We’ve outlined the current best practices—and the current best-case scenarios—for the four areas that are fundamental to

achieving rocket science retailing. But there are other areas of improvement for retailers who seek to get closer to the grail.

http://hbr.org/2000/07/are-you-ready/ar/pr 18/07/2012

Are You Ready? - Harvard Business Review Page 7of 8

Many of the issues we’ve touched on have dealt with metrics like forecast accuracy, stockouts, lost sales, gross margins,

markdowns, and inventory carrying costs. But retailers also need to track the variables that drive those measures. For

example, which products and market segments tend to have inaccurate forecasts, and how does forecast accuracy change

over time? Only then will retailers have the information they need to get at the root cause of retail problems, solve them, and

improve performance.

Some retailers also focus too much on the short term. The pressure to immediately improve profits can spur cost-cutting that

leads to customer dissatisfaction and low employee morale. The senior managers at one retailer in our study were challenged

by the board to achieve double-digit profit increases every year. Management achieved this goal by cutting costs through

reducing the number of salespeople in the stores. The board was pleased with the short-term profit growth, but the reduced

head-count pretty quickly created lower customer satisfaction, and employees were unhappy.

To prevent this kind of problem, retailers need to visibly and accurately track customer satisfaction and employee morale. At

least one retailer in our study has engaged an outside audit firm to measure those factors, and the company is even

considering reporting the results in its annual reports. That approach makes sense; without hard numbers on customer

satisfaction and employee morale, those factors would take a backseat to cost reduction. In the long run the retailer would be

worse off.

Marriage of Art and Science

It’s useful to consider the long-standing conflict between left-brainers, the technical types who either produce or rely on

information supplied through technology, and right-brainers, those who rely more on intuition. The core of rocket science

retailing, as we’ve said, involves a marriage of the two. And many retail executives do acknowledge the need for blending left-

and right-brain capabilities, particularly in planning.

Consistent with this view, their organizations have a left-brained planning organization to complement the traditionally right-

brained buying or merchandising organizations. The planner typically looks at sales data—in the absence of software

systems—to determine stocking quantities at the store and SKU levels. The buyer tries to look beyond numbers and history

and focuses on right-brain tasks such as identifying changing patterns in consumer demand and developing new products.

The division of skills and responsibilities between buying and planning appears to work well at most retailers. But in other

areas, there is vast room for improvement; a good example is the relationship between the management information systems

group, which maintains computer systems at the company, and other departments such as merchandising. One retail CEO

reports “The only time [the MIS managers] communicate with me is when they ask me for a $30 million write-off on some

previous project that now has to be abandoned.” Another CEO chastised us for not appreciating the MIS-merchandising divide:

“You guys don’t get it, the merchandising-MIS relationship is broken.”

Most MIS specialists aren’t experts in products or merchandising. They are experts in information technologies such as

database management and computer networks. Prior to joining the retailer, they may have worked at nonretail companies.

Consequently, they don’t always understand the needs of the merchandising organization. In many cases, even the language

is substantially different between the two groups. One MIS group at a leading retailer found, much to its surprise, that when

merchants in the company say “always,” as in “I always follow this procedure,” they mean 75% of the time. This shocked the

literal-minded MIS group for whom “always” means 100%. It is not clear how the relationship between MIS and merchandising

will evolve. But we don’t see how merchandising can become scientific without the two factions understanding each other.

The Systems at the Core

If rocket science retailing is ever to happen across the industry, retailers must pay more attention to the logic that is embedded

in their planning systems.