SOURCE: HBR The True Measures of Success.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.11 HFT - Measurement
TOPIC: Business Analytics and Performance Measurement
SUMMARY: The text discusses how businesses often measure the wrong metrics, leading to poor strategic and resource allocation decisions, and the importance of using the right statistics to assess performance.
KEYWORDS: business analytics, performance measurement, metrics, statistics, decision-making
---

ANALYTICS

The True Measures of Success

by Michael J. Mauboussin

FROM THE OCTOBER 2012 ISSUE

A

bout a dozen years ago, when I was working for a large financial services firm,

one of the senior executives asked me to take on a project to better understand

the company’s profitability. I was in the equity division, which generated fees

and commissions by catering to investment managers and sought to maximize revenues by

providing high-quality research, responsive trading, and coveted initial public offerings.

While we had hundreds of clients, one mutual fund company was our largest. We shuttled

our researchers to visit with its analysts and portfolio managers, dedicated capital to

ensure that its trades were executed smoothly, and recognized its importance in the

allocation of IPOs. We were committed to keeping the 800-pound gorilla happy.

Part of my charge was to understand the division’s profitability by customer. So we

estimated the cost we incurred servicing each major client. The results were striking and

counterintuitive: Our largest customer was among our least profitable. Indeed, customers

in the middle of the pack, which didn’t demand substantial resources, were more

profitable than the giant we fawned over.

What happened? We made a mistake that’s exceedingly common in business: We

measured the wrong thing. The statistic we relied on to assess our performance—revenues

—was disconnected from our overall objective of profitability. As a result, our strategic and

resource allocation decisions didn’t support that goal. This article will reveal how this

mistake permeates businesses—probably even yours—driving poor decisions and

undermining performance. And it will show you how to choose the best statistics for your

business goals.

Ignoring Moneyball’s Message

Ignoring Moneyball’s Message

Moneyball, the best seller by Michael Lewis, describes how the Oakland Athletics used

carefully chosen statistics to build a winning baseball team on the cheap. The book was

published nearly a decade ago, and its business implications have been thoroughly

dissected. Still, the key lesson hasn’t sunk in. Businesses continue to use the wrong

statistics.

Before the A’s adopted the methods Lewis describes, the team relied on the opinion of

talent scouts, who assessed players primarily by looking at their ability to run, throw, field,

hit, and hit with power. Most scouts had been around the game nearly all their lives and

had developed an intuitive sense of a player’s potential and of which statistics mattered

most. But their measures and intuition often failed to single out players who were effective

but didn’t look the role. Looks might have nothing to do with the statistics that are actually

important: those that reliably predict performance.

Baseball managers used to focus on a basic number—team batting average—when they

talked about scoring runs. But after doing a proper statistical analysis, the A’s front office

recognized that a player’s ability to get on base was a much better predictor of how many

runs he would score. Moreover, on-base percentage was underpriced relative to other

abilities in the market for talent. So the A’s looked for players with high on-base

percentages, paid less attention to batting averages, and discounted their gut sense. This

allowed the team to recruit winning players without breaking the bank.

Many business executives seeking to create shareholder value also rely on intuition in

selecting statistics. The metrics companies use most often to measure, manage, and

communicate results—often called key performance indicators—include financial measures

such as sales growth and earnings per share (EPS) growth in addition to nonfinancial

measures such as loyalty and product quality. Yet, as we’ll see, these have only a loose

connection to the objective of creating value. Most executives continue to lean heavily on

poorly chosen statistics, the equivalent of using batting averages to predict runs. Like

leather-skinned baseball scouts, they have a gut sense of what metrics are most relevant to

their businesses, but they don’t realize that their intuition may be flawed and their

decision making may be skewed by cognitive biases. Through my work, teaching, and

research on these biases, I have identified three that seem particularly relevant in this

context: the overconfidence bias, the availability heuristic, and the status quo bias.

Overconfidence.

People’s deep confidence in their judgments and abilities is often at odds with reality. Most

people, for example, regard themselves as better-than-average drivers. The tendency

toward overconfidence readily extends to business. Consider this case from Stanford

professors David Larcker and Brian Tayan: The managers of a fast-food chain, recognizing

that customer satisfaction was important to profitability, believed that low employee

turnover would keep customers happy. “We just know this is the key driver,” one

executive explained. Confident in their intuition, the executives focused on reducing

turnover as a way to improve customer satisfaction and, presumably, profitability.

People’s deep confidence in their

judgments and abilities is often at odds

with reality.

As the turnover data rolled in, the executives were surprised to discover that they were

wrong: Some stores with high turnover were extremely profitable, while others with low

turnover struggled. Only through proper statistical analysis of a host of factors that could

drive customer satisfaction did the company discover that turnover among store managers,

not in the overall employee population, made the difference. As a result, the firm shifted

its focus to retaining managers, a tactic that ultimately boosted satisfaction and profits.

Availability.

The availability heuristic is a strategy we use to assess the cause or probability of an event

on the basis of how readily similar examples come to mind—that is, how “available” they

are to us. One consequence is that we tend to overestimate the importance of information

that we’ve encountered recently, that is frequently repeated, or that is top of mind for

other reasons. For example, executives generally believe that EPS is the most important

measure of value creation in large part because of vivid examples of companies whose

stock rose after they exceeded EPS estimates or fell abruptly after coming up short. To

many executives, earnings growth seems like a reliable cause of stock-price increases