SOURCE: HBR How do customers judge quality in an e-tailer.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Online Retail Operations
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of flexibility, delivery options, and accurate information in online retail operations to ensure customer satisfaction and retain customers.
KEYWORDS: e-commerce, customer experience, online retail management
---

multilingual translations. Addi- commodate flexible delivery dates and rush orders was addressed in this section. Customers

tionally, a Web site must be able to were also asked about the care with which items were protectively packed for shipment.

adapt to numerous types of users, The third section asked customers about failures that occurred during online transactions.

old and young, technologically so- Of the 338 respondents, 189 noted some problem or failure with their last online transaction.

We asked respondents about several aspects of the interactions that took place between the

phisticated and unso-

e-tailer and the customer when these problems occurred. Questions were asked about the

phisticated. The flexibility of an

company’s concern and ability to resolve the issue. Similarly, we asked if the e-tailer honestly

online retailer is also revealed by

communicated with the customer about the service failure. This section addressed how

the billing and delivery options

quickly the e-tailer responded to the problem and how easy it was to voice a complaint.

provided. For example, online re-

Finally, customers were asked about the resolution of the problem and whether or not they

tailers need to provide payment

received compensation and the outcome they felt they deserved.

options that include different The fourth part of the survey addressed overall customer satisfaction and the intentions of

types of credit and debit cards as the customer to patronize the e-tailer in the future. All four survey sections used Likert scale

well as allowing customers to questions formatted as 1 = Totally Agree to 5 = Totally Disagree. Among the respondents to the

choose alternative billing ad- survey, 52% percent were female, with an average age of 25. The results of the survey were an-

dresses for product shipments. alyzed using structural equation modeling to discover which factors had the strongest effect

on satisfaction and subsequently on intentions to patronize the online retailer. While Web site

Good Information Managers of on- interactivity or service recovery efforts were significant predictors of customers’ satisfaction,

the outcome (delivery) of the online transaction had the strongest impact on satisfaction and

line retail operations must ensure

intentions to purchase from an online retailer in the future.

that information on the Web site

is accurate and updated. Display-

ing products that are sold out,

providing inaccurate price information and listing incorrect mation in this context will lead to customer distrust of the online

product delivery information are just some of the issues that can retailer, and ultimately to defection.

cause customers to become dissatisfied with an online retailer.

The frustration that customers feel when they are charged an Delivery of the Product

incorrect price in a brick-and-mortar setting is compounded in Customers initiate an online transaction in order to receive a prod-

an online setting. After all, no employees are readily available to uct. Though the interactivity of the Web site is very important, the

answer questions on a Web site. most important aspect of the quality of the online retail experience

A retailer’s Web site must fully inform customers of all policies is the delivery of the purchase. When a customer purchases a prod-

and procedures, along with any changes that have occurred. Pur- uct online, an implicit contract is made. There is an assumption

chasing products online involves evaluating information away that an online retailer will deliver the product purchased in the

from a traditional brick-and-mortar store context to determine if manner agreed upon on the Web site. In a brick-and-mortar set-

a product is worth purchasing. Out-of-date or inaccurate infor- ting, customers have little interest in how a product was delivered

Purchased by: Paul Grosmann GROZY@HOTMAIL.COM on June 03, 2014

FALL 2006 MIT SLOAN MANAGEMENT REVIEW 37

E-tailers that establish a foundation of delivering products in a timely manner could buffer the effects of future

delivery failures, as customers believe this represents a one-time exception to a normally excellent delivery record.

to the store. However, when delivery is made directly to a custom- ery failures, as customers believe that this represents a one-time

er’s home or business, customers are concerned with both how and exception to a normally excellent delivery record. Delivering

when the delivery will be accomplished. The fact that certain on- products in a timely manner not only to meet but exceed custom-

line retailers use well-known and trusted carriers, such as United ers’ expectations should be an important concern for all managers

Parcel Service Inc. and FedEx Corp., has been shown to influence a of online retail operations.

customer’s purchase decision.6

Obviously, the delivery (or not) of the product at the end of The Accuracy of the Order Since online customers take on some of

the transaction plays an extremely influential role in customer the roles traditionally performed by a brick-and-mortar retail

intentions to use an online retailer in the future. A customer who employee, customers have high expectations that they will receive

has a bad experience with a product delivery is much more likely the exact product they ordered and nothing they did not order,

to turn to a different online retailer for future transactions. Three delivered to the desired location, and that they will be billed the

aspects of product delivery significantly influence customer eval- correct amount. When customers receive a partially or inaccu-

uations of the quality of an online retail experience. rately filled order, they not only feel a sense of frustration, but

also the aggravation of having to contact the online retailer to try

The Timeliness of the Order Customers increasingly want a shorter to resolve the problem.

time frame between when they place an online order and when Receiving an inaccurate order only serves to reinforce a percep-

they receive the product. Many customers view themselves as tion of incompetence on the part of an online retailer. In the

“time starved” and will pay premium prices to a have a product customer’s mind, he or she has made the effort to place the order,