SOURCE: HBR -Are You Ready.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2012
TOPIC: Retail Inventory Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of inventory planning and forecasting for short-life-cycle products, and the need for more appropriate decision support tools.
KEYWORDS: inventory planning, forecasting, decision support systems, short-life-cycle products, retail management
---

[Document: HBR -Are You Ready.pdf]

merchants in the company say “always,” as in “I always follow this procedure,” they mean 75% of the time. This shocked the

literal-minded MIS group for whom “always” means 100%. It is not clear how the relationship between MIS and merchandising

will evolve. But we don’t see how merchandising can become scientific without the two factions understanding each other.

The Systems at the Core

If rocket science retailing is ever to happen across the industry, retailers must pay more attention to the logic that is embedded

in their planning systems.

Most retailers, for example, realize that inventory levels should be reduced toward the end of a product’s life cycle and that

forecasts should be updated based on early sales data after adjusting for product availability and price fluctuations. But most

inventory-planning software is designed for products that have long life cycles and is thus inappropriate for products that have

an economic life of just a few months.

Recommended Reading

Marshall Fisher and Kumar Rajaram, “Accurate Testing of Retail Fashion Merchandise: Methodology and Application,”

Marketing Science, No. 3, Summer 2000.

Marshall Fisher, Ananth Raman, Janice H. Hammond, and Walter Obermeyer, “Making Supply Meet Demand in an Uncertain

World,” HBR May–June 1994.

Ananth Raman and Giulio Zotteri, “A Technique to Estimate Retail Demand and Lost Sales,” Harvard Business School

Working Paper, 2000.

http://hbr.org/2000/07/are-you-ready/ar/pr 18/07/2012

Are You Ready? - Harvard Business Review Page 8of 8

“Sport Obermeyer Ltd.,” HBS Case Study #9-695-022.

Consider, for example, a catalog retailer that recently bought a new software package for planning inventories of short-life-cycle

products. The company was advised to set the system’s parameters to stock four weeks’ worth of projected demand for each

SKU. For these products, however, sales usually peaked in the first week and then declined exponentially. This meant that the

four-week supply ordered by the system was based on inflated sales. It was inevitably too much inventory and often generated

obsolete goods at the end of the products’ life cycles.

What’s more, most inventory planning systems typically require two or three years of demand history on which to model

forecasting and stocking parameters. This is a problem for the many products whose life cycles are measured in months. Some

software vendors are starting to address this problem, and we’re confident an appropriate system will be developed soon.

Rocket science retailing will require the development and use of decision support tools. In the past, many retailers that have

attempted to develop such systems in-house or purchase them from third-party vendors have been disappointed; the systems

did not use the appropriate mathematical techniques and hence produced poor results. The mathematical techniques

underlying such decision-support systems are not straightforward for a number of reasons.

Consider a task as simple as using early sales data to guide replenishment; see what’s selling well and get more of it if you can.

But implementing this concept requires careful attention to detail. For example, it’s important to know not just how much has

sold of a particular product but the conditions under which it sold, including price and inventory availability. This point is well

illustrated by one retailer that had developed a replenishment model based on early sales data. The model showed that a

product in one style and color was selling almost twice as well as had been originally forecast. Based on this, a large

replenishment order was placed. The vice president of merchandising who had placed the order was dismayed to see sales in

the next three weeks fall to 60% of what the model had predicted. She was convinced that the model was flawed. But careful

examination revealed that sales were slow because a delivery of the product that had been expected at the time the order was

placed, and that had been assumed by the model, was delayed by three weeks. Hence, stores were stocking out of many sizes.

Once the fresh product arrived, sales rebounded to the level predicted by the model. The underlying principle is simple—you

can’t sell it if you don’t have it in inventory. But retailers often overlook this principle when they interpret sales data.

• • •

Nature abhors a vacuum, and the retailing situation today is an economic vacuum that cannot persist. Retailers can’t continue

to suffer growing markdown losses yet disappoint a significant portion of their customers who can’t find what they want. They

can’t continue to ignore billions of bytes of unused sales history that could help solve these problems. Somehow this vacuum

will be filled.

Every decade sees a retailer that innovates so powerfully that it rewrites the rules for other retailers and for all companies in the

retail supply chain. In the 1980s, it was Wal-Mart. In the 1990s, it was Amazon.com. We believe the next retail innovator will be

the one that best combines access to consumer transaction data with the ability to turn that information into action.

Marshall L. Fisher is a professor at the Wharton School at the University of

Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.

Ananth Raman is a professor at Harvard Business School in Boston.

Anna Sheen McClelland was a research associate at the Wharton School at the

time the research presented in this article was conducted.

http://hbr.org/2000/07/are-you-ready/ar/pr 18/07/2012