SOURCE: HBR -Are You Ready.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2012
TOPIC: Inventory Planning
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of inventory planning for retailers, including the lack of tracking for stockouts and lost sales, and a method to estimate lost sales.
KEYWORDS: inventory planning, stockouts, lost sales, supply chain responsiveness, forecasting
---

[Document: HBR -Are You Ready.pdf]

needed. The video also showed how much longer it took the warehouse staffers to collect the orders when the size mix for

each store varied according to its need. The distribution manager and his peers were confident that the few-seconds-per-

garment time savings would convince store managers that all reorders should be shipped in identical size mixes. Which

begged our question to the manager: “How long does it take you to process garments that come back from the stores unsold

because you haven’t shipped what they need?”

Many retailers fall into a vicious cycle. Logistics and procurement officials argue that reducing lead times for products won’t

help the retailer because the company lacks good sales data and the tools to analyze that data. Merchandise-planning officials

argue that being able to store and analyze sales data won’t help the retailer since logistics and procurement can’t respond fast

enough to those signals. The problem is that companies can’t quantify the value of a short lead time in reducing stockouts and

markdowns. But as retailers adopt new software tools for forecasting and planning supply, they can use these tools to measure

the impact of a shorter lead time and to better match supply with demand.

Inventory Planning

Inventory planning involves deciding when and how much to order, or how much to produce, of various raw materials,

components, and finished goods. Inventory planning differs from forecasting because a planner might find it beneficial to stock

more or less than predicted demand. In planning inventory for a household, for example, you might decide to stock far more

http://hbr.org/2000/07/are-you-ready/ar/pr 18/07/2012

Are You Ready? - Harvard Business Review Page 5of 8

medicine than you anticipate needing in case you become sick. Or you might buy certain items—batteries, for instance—many

months’ demand at a time while other items—bread and milk, for instance—might be ordered every week. Inventory planning

at most retailers suffers from several shortcomings. One of the most glaring is that many retailers don’t track stockouts and the

resulting lost sales. Only 13 of the 32 companies in our study said they track stockouts, and 11 of the 13 used this information

to estimate the resulting lost sales.

Lost sales are endemic among retailers, especially for products with short life cycles. Tracking stock-outs could help retailers

set optimal inventory levels and could help them see the value in improving supply-chain responsiveness. So why aren’t these

metrics studied carefully? One reason is that it’s hard to know how much of a product would have sold if supply had been

plentiful. The figure can be estimated using sophisticated statistical techniques, but retailers generally can’t find such

capabilities in commercial software, especially in the case of short-life-cycle products.

There is a way over that hurdle. We developed a method to estimate lost sales. Our procedure works in two steps. First, it

calculates the underlying demand rate for a product based on the sales patterns that occurred when the product was in stock.

Second, it combines the estimated demand rate with the duration of the product stockout at a particular store to derive the lost

sales. To estimate demand rate and lost sales, the technique has to be modified for factors such as the variation of demand on

different days and at different times within a day. In our experiments with real retail data, our technique estimated lost sales to

within 2% at the store level and with higher accuracy at the chain level or for a category of products.

The benefits of tracking lost sales, and increasing inventory levels systematically to reduce those losses, can be substantial.

One retailer found that sales could be improved by roughly 10% simply by increasing inventory at the stores, suggesting that

lost sales—before the inventory boost—would have accounted for at least 10% of sales. At Rome-based jewelry manufacturer

Bulgari, stockouts on a single item at one store had been high enough to reduce the store’s revenue by 3.5%. As a result,

Bulgari is seeking ways to improve its planning processes.

Accurate, Available Data

All the retailers in our study have point-of-sale (POS) systems and have used them to capture sales data electronically. But

contrary to popular perception, most retailers have considerable difficulty capturing and maintaining sales data that are

accurate and accessible to their employees.

First, let’s consider the accuracy of the data that retailers collect. Store-level sales data are often inaccurate for several

reasons. In the apparel industry, a common source of data inaccuracy arises from improper handling of returns. When a

customer buys a medium sweater and then wants to exchange it for a small, the returned garment should be scanned into the

register as a return, and the requested garment should be scanned in as a new purchase. In reality, the salesperson, trying not

to inconvenience the customer, exchanges the medium garment for the small garment without scanning both items into the

POS system. As a result, the inventory levels of both items are inaccurate.

In the grocery business, the sheer volume of transactions confounds the grocer’s ability to maintain accurate sales and

inventory information. Most consumers can recount a situation in which they bought multiple units with the same price (for

example, a container of lemon yogurt and a container of vanilla yogurt, both the same brand) and the checkout clerk scanned

one of these items multiple times. Clearly, this would cause the inventories of both the lemon and the vanilla yogurt to be

inaccurate. One grocery chain found that sales of medium tomatoes have consistently been 25% higher than the actual

shipment of medium tomatoes to their stores. Checkout clerks frequently entered into their registers the price lookup (PLU)

code for “medium tomato” even if the customer was buying organic, vine-ripe, or other specialty tomatoes. “If it’s red and soft,

it’s a medium tomato at the checkout counter,” remarks the CIO at this supermarket chain. Most checkout clerks are reluctant