SOURCE: HBR -Are You Ready.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2012
TOPIC: Retail Forecasting and Supply Chain
SUMMARY: The article discusses the challenges retailers face in matching supply with demand, and the potential of using data-driven 'rocket science retailing' to improve forecasting and supply chain flexibility.
KEYWORDS: retail forecasting, supply chain management, data-driven decision making, inventory management, demand-supply matching
---

[Document: HBR -Are You Ready.pdf]

Are You Ready? - Harvard Business Review Page 1of 8

Are You Ready?

by Marshall L. Fisher, Ananth Raman, and Anna Sheen McClelland

The holy grail of retailing—being able to offer the right product in the right place at the right time for the right price—remains

frustratingly elusive. You would think we’d have captured it by now, particularly given the enormous amount of data that

retailers and e-tailers can gather about points of purchase, buying patterns, and customers’ tastes. But many retailers still have

a long way to go.

Witness the much-publicized problems that e-tailers have had delivering the products that customers order on their Web sites.

And who hasn’t gone to a store only to find that it doesn’t have the right item—even though the place is loaded with inventory,

mostly discounted goods? Department store markdowns have grown from 8% of store sales in 1971 to 33% in 1995. These

numbers include promotional markdowns as well as the forced markdowns that are the result of manufacturers’ oversupply. But

the increase is so large that most observers take it as a sign that retailers are having a hard time matching supply with

demand.

That’s not to say progress hasn’t been made. Some retailers (we’ll refer to retailers and e-tailers henceforth with the broader

term) have dramatically improved their performance in ordering, distribution, and merchandising. But those companies are still

a small, elite rank. The next step? An industrywide move toward something we call rocket science retailing—the act of blending

traditional forecasting systems, which are largely based on the intuition of a handful of employees, with the prowess of

information technology. Rocket science retailing fuses data and instinct with computer models and analysis to create a high-

tech forecasting system supported by a flexible supply chain.

The model is not as far-fetched as you might think. Wall Street went through just such a transformation in the 1970s. (See the

sidebar “It Happened on Wall Street.”) And we’ve seen many retailers come quite close to achieving rocket science status

during the past three years, as we’ve studied how they gather and process information, how they forecast demand, and how

they manage their supplier relationships.

It Happened on Wall Street

To those immersed in the day-to-day operations of a retail organization, the movement toward rocket science retailing may

seem overwhelming and the challenges insurmountable. But consider a similar movement on Wall Street in the late 1970s,

when several ingredients came together to transform the act of investing from an art to a science.

The first ingredient was information technology that had the power to capture, store, and analyze trade data, even to the

point of programmed trading in which computers traded against other computers to exploit any arbitrage opportunities that

might remain open for just a few seconds. The second ingredient was new models and concepts from academia that

provided a framework for analyzing all these data. And third was a new breed of Wall Street employee, who left behind a

career in science and man the burgeoning science optimized investing. Today these same ingredients are poised to form

retailing.

It may seem like a stretch to draw a parallel between a retailer and a Wall Street investment firm, but consider that both must

analyze transaction data—be they stock trades or product sales—to predict the next high-flying stock or hot product. (If you

think predicting the performance of stocks is fundamentally different from predicting the sales of fashion products, ask

yourself whether the lofty valuation of Internet stocks has been any less a fad than consumers’ infatuation with Pokemon

toys.) Both must invest resources—either stocks or product inventory—in the face of risk and uncertainty. And both need to

react quickly to signals from the marketplace.

These elements—accurate, available data; forecasting; risk-based inventory planning; and supply-chain speed—are the

foundation of retailing. The pyramid illus-depicts how these capabilities retail’s supply challenge of the right product in the

right at the right time and for the right price.

http://hbr.org/2000/07/are-you-ready/ar/pr 18/07/2012

Are You Ready? - Harvard Business Review Page 2of 8

We recently completed an in-depth, multiyear survey of 32 generally cutting-edge companies in which we tracked their

practices and progress in four areas critical to achieving rocket science retailing: forecasting, supply-chain speed, inventory

planning, and gathering accurate, available data. In this article, we’ll illustrate what some companies are doing best in these

four areas, with the hope that other retailers can use their insights and practices to gain ground on the grail.

Forecasting

For many of the retailers in our study, forecasting product demand is a right-brain function that relies on the gut feel of a few

individuals and not on the systematic use of sales data. But it’s a big mistake to overlook the opportunity to mix art and science.

Retailers can significantly improve forecast accuracy simply by updating their predictions based on early sales data, tracking

the accuracy of their forecasts, getting product testing right, and using a variety of forecasting approaches. Let’s discuss each

of these practices.

Update forecasts based on early sales data.

Early product sales, appropriately adjusted for variations in price and availability, are an excellent predictor of overall sales (see

the exhibit “No Need for a Crystal Ball”). In fact, retailers that exploit these data for production and inventory planning can more

than double their profits—especially retailers of products with short life cycles, such as clothing, consumer electronics, books,

and music.

No Need for a Crystal Ball

Early sales data can help to predict demand for the life cycle of a product—particularly a fashion item. The information at right

is from an apparel catalog company. The graph on the left plots actual life cycle demand against the forecasts made by a

committee of four merchandisers. The graph on the right plots actual life cycle demand against forecasts based on sales

observed during the product’s first two weeks on the market, which accounted for 11% of the season’s demand. The latter