SOURCE: HBR How do customers judge quality in an e-tailer.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Online Retail Service Recovery
SUMMARY: Effective service recovery, including easy feedback and resolution processes, is essential for online retailers to build and maintain customer relationships.
KEYWORDS: service recovery, customer feedback, online retail, service failures, customer satisfaction
---

impacts customers’ quality evaluations is a retailer’s ability to re- back and report problems is essential to improving the quality of

cover from a service failure. Of the online shoppers we surveyed, a retailer’s online service operations. If a customer experiences a

more than half noted a problem with a previous online transac- problem and cannot find a suitable method to contact the re-

tion. Previous research has observed that the physical separation tailer, the company risks losing the customer, other customers

of buyers and sellers can heighten the sense of anxiety associated (through word of mouth) and the opportunity to prevent future

with a transaction and influence the criteria customers use to service failures. Providing online or call center help to address

evaluate service quality7. Being prepared when a failure occurs is service failures is only the first step, however. Online retailers

essential to building and maintaining customer relationships. If a must make the feedback process as easy as possible, then follow

customer is dissatisfied and pursues a recovery measure, an online through to fully resolve the problem. E-mail inquiries that receive

retailer may only have one chance to satisfy the customer. There no response or long waits in a call center queue will only serve to

are essentially no switching costs in an online retail context; thus, intensify the dissatisfaction a customer is already feeling. Letting

if a customer leaves a transaction dissatisfied, he or she is only one customers speak their minds in a comfortable setting is the first

click away from another retailer. step, but without follow-up to customer feedback, it’s just a

Online retailers must be prepared to take proactive steps to wasted effort on the customer’s part.

prevent or minimize the dissatisfaction that results from a service

failure because failure to do so will ultimately influence a cus- Fairness of Policies and Procedures An online retailer should

tomer’s future purchase behavior. The recovery from service make sure its policies and procedures are fair and clearly stated

failures in online contexts is an area that has attracted relatively so that the customer knows what to expect if a failure occurs.

little attention among online retailers. The focus has been pri- Online retailers must ensure that customers do not incur ad-

marily on the Web site interactivity and delivery of the product. ditional expenses because of the retailer’s mistakes. For example,

That lack of attention to recovery issues is evidenced by the fact if a wrong item is sent to a customer, the retailer should pay the

that significant numbers of customers exhibit dissatisfaction return shipping costs. Customers want fair procedures that are

with online recovery attempts.8 Our study shows that customers clearly stated before a purchase is made. That includes know-

of online retailers are concerned with three different aspects of ing the process for returning items and receiving refunds or

service recovery. credit when customers change their minds. L.L. Bean Inc.

clearly states on its Web site that if a product does not give

The Opportunity to Talk to a Person Online retail customers who 100% satisfaction in every way, a customer can return the item

have experienced a problem will attempt to resolve it in one of at any time, offering detailed steps on what to do to get an ex-

two ways. Some customers look for a resolution on the retailer’s change or refund of a purchased item. Customers know upfront

Purchased by: Paul Grosmann GROZY@HOTMAIL.COM on June 03, 2014

FALL 2006 MIT SLOAN MANAGEMENT REVIEW 39

that L.L. Bean is committed to ensuring that customers are from Lowes.com and is not happy with the color must be given

happy with their purchases. the option of exchanging the appliance at a Lowe’s Companies

If an online retailer contracts with a third party for any of the Inc. brick-and-mortar location. Similarly, if a retail customer

transaction or delivery processes, it should be the retailer’s, not finds a microwave model to purchase in a Lowe’s brick-and-mor-

the customer’s, responsibility to follow up with the third party to tar location, but the location does not have the color desired in

resolve a service failure. Online customers have no interest in inventory, the customer should be given the option of placing an

dealing with an additional party in the transaction. Policies and order from Lowes.com and experiencing either home delivery or

procedures that are not fair and clearly stated can erode trust in in-store pickup. To the extent that this seamlessness is success-

a retailer, because customers feel they were not able to make a fully accomplished, retail customers will benefit by having

truly informed purchasing decision. multiple avenues to achieve a successful retail outcome. Thus, the

e-tail format, as well as the brick-and-mortar retail format, will

Compensation and Apologies Despite online retailers’ best efforts, benefit from customers’ perceptions of quality. In addition, this

problems can and do occur. In service failure situations, online seamlessness enhances a retailer’s ability to manage service recov-

retailers must understand the importance of taking additional ery, which also increases customers’ quality perceptions.

actions, beyond resolving the problem, to satisfy customers. For Second, for retailers that confine their format to the online

example, the retailer might need to offer monetary compensa- environment, such as Amazon.com, in the long term, the most

tion, vouchers for free products or perhaps simply an apology. successful will be those that continually strive to enhance the

Oftentimes, customers just want online retailers to admit that it quality of their customers’ interactions with their Web sites, the

was their fault and apologize for the service failure. The expense outcome of their retail transactions and successful resolution of

of an apology is minimal when compared to the future loss of the problems when they occur.

revenue stream from a dissatisfied customer. Finally, our findings imply that although indicators of trust in

Though many customers may be satisfied with an apology an online retail environment may be somewhat unique due to the