SOURCE: HBR The True Measures of Success.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.11 HFT - Measurement
TOPIC: Business Performance Metrics
SUMMARY: Companies often rely on metrics that are neither persistent nor predictive, such as earnings per share (EPS) and sales growth, which may not accurately reflect value creation.
KEYWORDS: performance metrics, value creation, earnings per share, sales growth
---

base) with an effect (scoring runs). It is also more persistent than batting average because it

incorporates more factors—including the ability to get walked—that reflect skill. So we can

conclude that a team’s on-base percentage is better for predicting the performance of a

team’s offense.

All this seems like common sense, right? Yet companies often rely on statistics that are

neither very persistent nor predictive. Because these widely used metrics do not reveal

cause and effect, they have little bearing on strategy or even on the broader goal of earning

a sufficient return on investment.

Consider this: Most corporations seek to maximize the value of their shares over the long

term. Practically speaking, this means that every dollar a company invests should generate

more than one dollar in value. What statistics, then, should executives use to guide them

in this value creation? As we’ve noted, EPS is the most popular. A survey of executive

compensation by Frederic W. Cook & Company found that it is the most popular measure

of corporate performance, used by about half of all companies. Researchers at Stanford

Graduate School of Business came to the same conclusion. And a survey of 400 financial

executives by finance professors John Graham, Campbell Harvey, and Shiva Rajgopal

found that nearly two-thirds of companies placed EPS first in a ranking of the most

important performance measures reported to outsiders. Sales revenue and sales growth

also rated highly for measuring performance and for communicating externally.

But will EPS growth actually create value for shareholders? Not necessarily. Earnings

growth and value creation can coincide, but it is also possible to increase EPS while

destroying value. EPS growth is good for a company that earns high returns on invested

capital, neutral for a company with returns equal to the cost of capital, and bad for

companies with returns below the cost of capital. Despite this, many companies slavishly

seek to deliver EPS growth, even at the expense of value creation. The survey by Graham

and his colleagues found that the majority of companies were willing to sacrifice long-term

economic value in order to deliver short-term earnings. Theory and empirical research tell

us that the causal relationship between EPS growth and value creation is tenuous at best.

Similar research reveals that sales growth also has a shaky connection to shareholder value.

(For a detailed examination of the relationship between earnings growth, sales growth, and

value, see the exhibit “The Problem with Popular Measures.”)

The Problem with Popular Measures

The most useful statistics are persistent (they show that the outcome of an action at one time will be

similar to the outcome of the same action at another time) and predictive (they link cause and effect,

predicting the outcome being measured). Statisticians assess a measure’s persistence and its

predictive value by examining the coefficient of correlation: the degree of the linear relationship

between variables in a pair of distributions. Put simply, if there is a strong relationship between two

sets of variables (say a group of companies’ sales growth in two different periods), plotting the points

on a graph like the ones shown here produces a straight line. If there’s no relationship between the

variables, the points will appear to be randomly scattered, in this case showing that sales growth in

the first period does not predict sales growth in the second.

In comparing the variable “sales growth” in two periods, the coefficient of correlation, r, falls in the

range of 1.00 to –1.00. If each company’s sales growth is the same in both periods (a perfect positive

correlation), r = 1.00—a straight line. (The values need not be equal to produce a perfect correlation;

any straight line will do.) If sales growth in the two periods is unrelated (there is zero correlation), r =

0—a random pattern. If increases in one period match decreases in the other (a perfect inverse

correlation), r = –1.00—also a straight line. Even a quick glance can tell you whether there is a high

correlation between the variables (the points are tightly clustered and linear) or a low correlation

(they’re randomly scattered).

The closer to 1.00 or –1.00 the coefficient of correlation is, the more persistent and predictive the

statistic. The closer to zero, the less persistent and predictive the statistic.

Let’s examine the persistence of two popular measures: EPS growth and sales growth.

The figures above show the coefficient of correlation for EPS growth and sales growth for more than

300 large nonfinancial companies in the United States. The compounded annual growth rates from

2005 to 2007, on the horizontal axes, are compared with the rates from 2008 to 2010, on the vertical

axes. If EPS and sales growth were highly persistent and, therefore, dependent on factors the company

could control, the points would cluster tightly on a straight line. But in fact they’re widely scattered,

revealing the important role of chance or luck. The correlation is negative and relatively weak (r = –

0.13) for EPS growth but somewhat higher (r = 0.28) for sales growth. This is consistent with the results

of large-scale studies.

Next, we’ll look at the predictive value of EPS growth and sales growth by examining the

correlation of each with shareholder returns.

In the figures above, adjusted EPS growth and sales growth are on the horizontal axes. The vertical

axes are the total return to shareholders for each company’s stock less the total return for the S&P

500. Adjusted EPS growth shows a reasonably good correlation with increasing shareholder value (r =

0.37), so it is somewhat predictive. The problem is that forecasting earnings is difficult because, as we

saw in the previous analysis, EPS growth in one period tells you little about what will happen in

another. Earnings data may be moderately predictive of shareholder returns, but they are not

persistent.

Using sales growth as a gauge of value creation falls short for a different reason. While sales growth is