SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Visual Aid Design
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of designing visually engaging presentations by thoughtfully formatting visual aids to effectively convey the intended message.
KEYWORDS: visual aids, presentation design, data visualization
---

Too often, a presenter will display a dense table

ofnumbers, perhaps copied fromanother source.

Which numbers should I look at? What trend do

they illustrate? You should design and edit your

page 13

Presentations 101

visual aids in much the same way you format

and edit a document—continually thinking

about the effect on the audience. Should key

numbers in this table be boldfaced? Should it

be a pie chart or stacked-bar chart instead? By

asking such questions, you continually compare

your visual aid to the message you want it to

convey.

6. Not letting visual aids do their work.

Presenters make fascinating mistakes with

visual aids:

» Blocking the screen with their bodies

«Talking to the screen rather than the

audience

= Displaying a slide for ten seconds or

less--not enough time for its message to

sink in

Since you spend so much time developing

an effective slide, make sure you let it do its

work while you do yours. Practice to make

the following physical actions become second

nature:

= Stand where most of the audience can

see both you and the screen

»Glance at each slide to make sure

it’s correct, then turn to address the

audience

page r4

#As you speak, check your audience’s

faces to see that the slide has registered

with them

7. Presenting without passion. Despite an

ever-growing array of communication options,

presentations remain essential to the business

world. Why? In part, a presentation allows

interaction between audience and presenter,

and among audience members who can develop

team spirit. But mainly, a presentation is an

in-person experience. It’s not just your words

and visuals that make your presentation, bat

you. The audience will judge your credibility,

substance, and passion—and they’ve come to

the presentation because they can best make

those judgments in person.

When you stand up in front of a crowd, you

must believe that you're telling them something

important. When the audience feels your trust

and faith in the topic—if you have been effective

in communicating it~you pass the implicit

test they came to this room to give you. Your

presentation succeeds,

This article originally appeared in Harvard

Management Communication Letter (product

#CooB). fo order, visit hbr.org.

wa. hbrorg

HARVARD MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATION LETTER

Easy on the Eyes

by Kirsten D. Sandberg

Kirsten D. Sandberg can be reached at ksandberg@hbsp.harvard.edu.

Graphic designer Nigel Holmes has been one of the gurus of the “thinking visually”

movement, using charts, graphs, and pictures to make complex data more accessible. Along with

writing three industry primers on the topic, Holmes has worked at a number of publications, including

16 years as the graphics director for Time magazine. He now directs his own design firm, Explanation

Graphics, and has lectured on graphic design at the Stanford Professional Publishing Course for more

than 20 years.

Contributing editor Kirsten D. Sandberg caught up with Holmes in his Westport, Conn., offices.

Your peers have credited you with pioneering a whole new design genre called “explanation

graphics.” What does that mean?

It’s literal: graphics (drawings or animations that are generally two-dimensional) that explain

information quickly and clearly. I use the term “explanation graphics” because | believe that

‘information graphics” is an overused, as well as inadequate and imprecise, name for what! do. Today,

many graphics explain nothing, They just present data, and the reader is expected to work out their

meanings. Charts that don’t explain themselves are worse than no charts. “Information must inform”

has become a cliché, but it’s right.

How do you go about creating an “explanation graphic”?

I start by thinking, How can I keep the result simple? However, “simple” is a difficult word, because

there is a fine balance between “simplifying” and “dumbing down.” Nevertheless, I remind myself

Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations page is

Easy on the Eyes

page 16.

that most graphics appear in situations where

the reader, viewer, or audience can take only

so much at one time, especially during live

presentations.

Rementber that we move around in a full-color

world with images passing by us all the time.

But charts are not pictures of the real world;

they depict abstract ideas, numbers, and

concepts, We don’t change the color of the type

to blue when we describe the sky. It’s the idea

that counts.

And so I often start by imagining that I can use

only black and white, I introduce color only

when the information requires it to clarify a point

or to focus the reader’s eye on the point. Charts

distinguish themselves best when they don’t

imitate the rush of images around them. They

should be simpler than their surroundings.

Then how can we use graphics software

programs more effectively?

PowerPoint is a good program, but people

misuse it appallingly every day. Words shouldn’t

rush in from the side and screech to a halt just

because a clever programmer wrote some code

to make that possible. Besides, people start

critiquing the form and not seeing the content.

“Did you see what he did with the latest version

of PowerPoint? It’s got these cool effects!”

So try making your presentation not look

like PowerPoint. Don't rely on the programs

defaults—formulas always end up looking like

formulas, Start with a blank slide every time,

and paste—if you must—the vital parts that are

common to all your slides. Spend much less

time with the animation, those fades and wipes

from one slide to another, and concentrate on

your key points.

Are charts culturally universal, or must we

translate them in some way?

Most of us are the same, whether in Africa,

Japan, India, or New York. We can concentrate

for a while, then the mind wanders, especially

after lunch. Simple messages, straightforwardly

presented without jargon and with some humor,

are better than earnest, data-stulfed boxes with

tiny graphics that look important but in fact

glaze your eyes over.

What should we remember when using

graphics in live presentations versus in

print?

The human voice is more powerful than the