SOURCE: HBR_Leadership That Gets Result_Daniel Goleman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership Styles
SUMMARY: The text examines the authoritative and affiliative leadership styles, highlighting their strengths, limitations, and how they can be effectively deployed.
KEYWORDS: leadership styles, authoritative leadership, affiliative leadership, employee motivation, team dynamics
---

The authoritative style, powerful though it

may be, will not work in every situation. The

approach fails, for instance, when a leader is

working with a team of experts or peers who

are more experienced than he is; they may see

the leader as pompous or out-of-touch, An-

other limitation: if a manager trying to be au-

thoritative becomes overbearing, he can un-

dermine the egalitarian spirit of an effective

team. Yet even with such caveats, leaders

would be wise to grab for the authoritative

“club” more often than not. It may not guar-

antee a hole in one, but it certainly helps with

the long drive.

The Affiliative Style. If the coercive leader

demands, “Do what I say,’ and the authorita~

tive urges, “Come with me,” the affiliative

leader says, “People come first?” This leader-

ship style revolves around people—its propo-

nents value individuals and their emotions

more than tasks and goals. The affiliative

leader strives to keep employees happy and to

create harmony among them. He manages by

building strong emotional bonds and then

reaping the benefits of such an approach,

namely fierce loyalty. The style also has a

markedly positive effect on communication.

People who like one another a lot talk a lot.

They share ideas; they share inspiration. And

the style drives up flexibility; friends trust one

another, allowing habitual innovation and risk

taking. Flexibility also rises because the affilia-

tive leader, like a parent who adjusts house-

hold rules for a maturing adolescent, doesn’t

impose unnecessary strictures on how em-

ployees get their work done. They give people

the freedom to do their job in the way they

EW =, 2

locument is Buthorized tor uae ‘Shly by favs Liddie (TRAVISLIDDLE23@GMAIL.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contachCE 6

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Leadership That Gets Results

think is most effective.

As for a sense of recognition and reward for

work well done, the affiliative leader offers

ample positive feedback. Such feedback has

special potency in the workplace because it is

all too rare: outside of an annual review, most

people usually get no feedback on their day-to-

day efforts—or only negative feedback. That

makes the affiliative leader’s positive words all

the more motivating. Finally, affiliative lead-

ers are masters at building a sense of belong-

ing. They are, for instance, likely to take their

direct reports out for a meal or a drink, one-on-

one, to see how they’re doing, They will bring

in a cake to celebrate a group accomplishment.

They are natural relationship builders,

Joe Torre, the heart and soul of the New

York Yankees, is a classic affiliative leader. Dur-

ing the 1999 World Series, Torre tended ably to

the psyches of his players as they endured the

emotional pressure cooker of a pennant race.

All season long, he made a special point to

praise Scott Brosius, whose father had died

during the season, for staying committed even

as he mourned. At the celebration party after

the team’s final game, Torre specifically sought

out right fielder Paul O’Neill. Although he had

received the news of his father’s death that

morning, O'Neill chose to play in the decisive

game~~and he burst into tears the moment it

ended. Torre made a point of acknowledging

O’Neill’s personal struggle, calling him a “war-

rior’ Torre also used the spotlight of the vic

Coercive

tory celebration to praise two players whose re-

turn the following year was threatened by

contract disputes. In doing so, he sent a clear

message to the team and to the club’s owner

that he valued the players immensely—too

much to lose them.

Along with ministering to the emotions of

his people, an affiliative leader may also tend

to his own emotions openly. The year Torre’s

brother was near death awaiting a heart trans-

plant, he shared his worries with his players.

He also spoke candidly with the team about

his treatment for prostate cancer.

The affiliative style’s generally positive im-

pact makes it a good all-weather approach, but

leaders should employ it particularly when try-

ing to build team harmony, increase morale,

improve communication, or repair broken

trust. For instance, one executive in our study

was hired to replace a ruthless team leader.

The former leader had taken credit for his em-

ployees’ work and had attempted to pit them

against one another. His efforts ultimately

failed, but the team he left behind was suspi-

cious and weary. The new executive managed

to mend the situation by unstintingly showing

emotional honesty and rebuilding ties. Several

months in, her leadership had created a re-

newed sense of commitment and energy.

Despite its benefits, the affiliative style

should not be used alone. Its exclusive focus

on praise can allow poor performance to go

uncorrected; employees may perceive that

Authoritative

EVIEW * =) GE

HARVARD docuriaitt ig aulronzed tor Use ony by travis Liddle (TRAVISLIDDLE23@GMAIL.COM). Copying or pasting is an infringement of copyright. Please contatt°® 7

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Leadership That Gets Results

mediocrity is tolerated. And because affilia-

tive leaders rarely offer constructive advice

on how to improve, employees must figure

out how to do so on their own. When people

need clear directives to navigate through

complex challenges, the affiliative style

leaves them rudderless. Indeed, if overly re-

lied on, this style can actuaily steer a group

to failure. Perhaps that is why many affilia~

tive leaders, including Torre, use this style in

close conjunction with the authoritative

style. Authoritative leaders state a vision, set

standards, and let people know how their

work is furthering the group’s goals. Alter-

nate that with the caring, nurturing ap-

proach of the affiliative leader, and you have

a potent combination.

The Democratic Style. Sister Mary ran a

Catholic school system in a large metropolitan

area, One of the schools—the only private

school in an impoverished neighborhood—

had been losing money for years, and the arch-

diocese could no longer afford to keep it open.