SOURCE: HBR_Leadership That Gets Result_Daniel Goleman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership Styles
SUMMARY: This article discusses how the most effective executives use a collection of distinct leadership styles, each used at the right time, to get results.
KEYWORDS: leadership styles, emotional intelligence, organizational climate, flexibility, performance
---

Harvard Business Review

www.hbr.org

New research suggests that the d h . Th G

most effective oxeeutives use a Lea er S Ip at ets

collection of distinct

leadership styles—each in the Results

right measure, at just the right

time, Such flexibility is tough i

to put into action, but it pays

off in performance. And

better yet, it can be learned.

by Daniel Goleman

Included with this full-text Harvard Business Review article:

1 Article Summary

The Idea in Brief—the core idea

The Idea in Practice—putting the idea to work

2 Leadership That Gets Results

15 Further Reading

A list of related materials, with annotations to guide further

exploration of the article’s ideas and applications

Reprint ROO204

This document is authorized for use only by Travis Liddle (TRAVISLIDDLEZS@GMAIL.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

COPYRIGHT © 2000 HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL PUBLISHING CORPORATION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

Many managers mistakenly assume that

leadership style is a function of personality

rather than strategic choice. Instead of

choosing the one style that suits their

temperament, they should ask which style

best addresses the demands of a particular

situation,

Research has shown that the most success~

ful leaders have strengths in the following

emotional intelligence competencies: self-

awareness, self-regulation, motivation,

empathy, and social skill. There are six basic

styles of leadership; each makes use of the

key components of emotional intelligence

in different combinations. The best leaders

don't know just one style of leadership—

they're skilled at several, and have the flexi-

bility to switch between styles as the cir

cumstances dictate,

Leadership That Gets Results

_The Idea in Practice

Managers often fail to appreciate how profoundly the organizational climate can influence fi-

nancial results, |! can account for nearly a third of financial performance, Organizational climate,

in turn, is influenced by leadership style—-by the way that managers motivate direct reports,

gather af

iformation, Make decisions, manage change initiatives, and handle crises. There

are six basic leadership styles. Each derives from different emotional intelligence competencies,

works best in particular situations, and affects the organizational climate in different ways,

1. The coercive style. This “Do what | say” ap-

proach can be very effective in a turnaround

situation, a natural disaster, or when working

with problem employees, But in most situa-

tions, coercive leadership inhibits the organi-

zation’s flexibility and dampens employees’

motivation,

2. The authoritative style. An authoritative

leader takes a "Come with me” approach: she

states the overall goal but gives people the

freedom to choose their own means of

achieving it. This style works especially well

when a business is adrift. It is less effective

when the leader is working with a team of ex-

perts who are more experienced than he is.

3. The affiliative style. The hallmark of the af-

filiative leader is a“People come first” attitude.

This style is particularly useful for building

team harmony or increasing morale, But its

exclusive focus on praise can allow poor per-

formance to go uncorrected, Also, affiliative

leaders rarely offer advice, which often leaves

employees in a quandary.

4, The democratic style, This style’s impact

on organizational climate is not as high as you

might imagine. By giving workers a voice in

decisions, demactratic leaders build organiza-

tional flexibility and responsibility and help

generate fresh ideas. But sometimes the price

is endless meetings and confused employees

who feel leaderless.

5, The pacesetting style. A leader who sets

high performance standards and exemplifies

them himself has a very positive impact on

employees who are self-motivated and highly

competent. But other employees tend to feel

overwhelmed by such a leader’s demands for

excellence—and to resent his tendency to

take over a situation.

6. The coaching style. This style focuses

more on personal development than on im-

mediate work-related tasks. it works well

when employees are already aware of their

weaknesses and want to improve, but not

when they are resistant to changing their

ways.

The more styles a leader has mastered, the

better, In particular, being able to switch

among the authoritative, affiliative, demo-

cratic, and coaching styles as conditions dic-

tate creates the best organizational climate

and optimizes business performance.

»

‘This document is authorized for use only by Travis Liddle (TRAVISLIDDLE23@GMAIL.COM), Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright, Please contact CE }

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

COPYRIGHT © 2000 HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL PUBLISHING CORPORATION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

New research suggests that the most effective executives use a collection

of distinct leadership styles—each in the right measure, at just the right

time. Such flexibility is tough to put into action, but it pays off in

performance. And better yet, it can be learned.

Leadership That Gets

Results

by Daniel Goleman

Ask any group of businesspeople the question

“What do effective leaders do?” and you'll

hear a sweep of answers. Leaders set strategy;

they motivate; they create a mission; they

build a culture. Then ask “What should leaders

do?” If the group is seasoned, you'll likely hear

one response: the leader's singular job is to

get results.

But how? The mystery of what leaders can

and ought to do in order to spark the best per-

formance from their people is age-old. In re-

cent years, that mystery has spawned an entire

cottage industry: literally thousands of “leader-

ship experts” have made careers of testing and

coaching executives, all in pursuit of creating

businesspeople who can turn bold objectives—

be they strategic, financial, organizational, or

all three—into reality.

Still, effective leadership eludes many peo-

ple and organizations. One reason is that until

recently, virtually no quantitative research

has demonstrated which precise leadership

behaviors yield positive results. Leadership

experts proffer advice based on inference, ex-

perience, and instinct. Sometimes that advice

is which precise leadership behaviors yield

positive results, Leadership experts proffer ad-

vice based on inference, experience, and in-

stinct. Sometimes that advice is right on tar-

get; sometimes it’s not.

But new research by the consulting firm