SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Visual Presentation Design
SUMMARY: The text discusses best practices for using graphics and visuals effectively in live presentations versus printed materials, emphasizing the importance of complementing rather than duplicating information.
KEYWORDS: presentation design, visual aids, information design, complementary visuals, audience engagement
---

presented without jargon and with some humor,

are better than earnest, data-stulfed boxes with

tiny graphics that look important but in fact

glaze your eyes over.

What should we remember when using

graphics in live presentations versus in

print?

The human voice is more powerful than the

written word. Don’t tax audiences with the job

of listening to and looking at the same words

(which are never in sync with each other). It’s

a lazy way to shape a presentation. Words

and pictures should complement rather than

duplicate each other, delivering information

through both the ear and the eye. What you’re

saying shouldn’t appear on the screen while

you're saying it. 1 mix methods, sometimes just

talking, at other times just words on the screen

and silence. Sometimes pictures and spoken

words, sometimes audience participation.

if you have to prepare a series of graphics

for someone else to use in a report or

presentation, then how do you make sure

that you’re creating the right illustrations—

before you get started?

Making slides for presentationsis considered one

of those necessary but thankless tasks. I’m sorry

that too few people find charts and diagrams

worth doing. That’s why PowerPoint resides on

the computers of administrative assistants and

not on those of the people actually delivering

the material.

So, to make the process as painless as possible,

start with a pencil, paper, and the guidelines for

using the right type of chart (see box), A little

impromptu sketching--and you needn't be able

to “draw”—in front of the person requesting the

presentation will quickly nail down the best way

to show the information. If you can’t overcome

the “I have no time to discuss it” attitude,

then make rough pencil sketches of what was

requested, as well as sketches of alternatives,

and show these first before you ever touch the

computer. You'll be amazed by how much time

this method saves in the end, and how many

questions it raises about design and content that

were invisible in the raw data.

How can we test our charts for

effectiveness?

Rehearse them. Run through the charts many

times over in front ofa receptive audience, even

of one, Ask, “Did you get the point? Did you get

enough information? Did 1 rush to the next point

too quickly? Did 1 make too many points?” Show

the graphic to others and see whether they can

“read” it properly and understand its point.

www. hbrorg

Easy on the Eyes

Managers should allow themselves and others

more time to prepare, and the presenters

should always participate in making every part

of the presentation, deciding which parts to

speak and which to project onto a screen. For

printed publications, the designer must work

with editorial to decide which part of a graphic

is written and which is drawn.

How can we use graphics for emotional

impact?

By being human, above all, But also by knowing

thoroughly what your subject is, and by making

it accessible (not talking down, of course) to

other humans just like you. By allowing people

to laugh. By involving their imaginations. By

referring to things outside the direct subject

being discussed. By drawing comparisons. By

enjoying what you do, It shows.

This article originally appeared in Harvard Management

Communication Letter (product #Co208C). To order,

visit hbr.org.

Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations

page 17

Easy on the Eyes

To get your audience to really see what you mean, pick the right strategy.

Do use fever charts (also called line

charts) to track the progress of a

quantity, like price or inventory, over a

period of time. They are especially good

for showing trends--what happened in

the past and what might happen in the

future. As a general rule, dates appear

along the bottom and quantities go

up the side, A thick line represents

the movement of the quantity from

left to right over time and up or down

according to the scale, such as dollars

or units,

Do use bar charts to show the

relationships among different items at

one time. Unlike fever charts, bars work

best when the time element is static, as

in a comparisan of the current prices

of wight: computers from different

manufacturers

in pie charts, do try to use numbers

that add up to 100%. If that is not pos-

sible.make sure to insert a note about

it on the chart, because some readers

delight inpointing aut “mistakes.”

Atable isn'ta visualization of numbers

it is the numbers, Do consider using a

table when numbers differ by orders of

magnitude so that no scale suffices in

plotting them. Take this set of numbers:

20, 400, 160,000, and 5,600,000,000.

A chart will lose the detail of low figures

if tt tries to reach the high ones without

breaking the scale. If you must break

the scale, then just use a table, because

a chart with a broken scale is no longer

a true picture of the numbers.

If numbers are so big that any graphic

representation fails to capture them,

do use word pictures to put them ina

human context. Think ofa trillion dollars

page 18

of national debt. How much bigger is a

trillion than a billion? Three zeros, or

one thousand times. Or consider this

option: it’s the year Oa.D., and you have

a trillion dollars to spend at the rate

of a million dollars a day. By the year

3 A.b., you've spent a billion. By the

year 2002, you'd still have 736 years to

gO, spending a million every day, before

you reached the end of your trillion

dollar pile. We can picture that in our

minds because we know the lengths of

a day, a year, and a millennium, and we

can imagine spending a million dollars,

Once you've settled on your approach,

be careful not to undercut your efforts

with gimmicks.

Don’t use the third dimension or

animation for animation’s sake. A

chart shouldn't move around or jump

off the page or screen~-it shauld stay