SOURCE: HBR_Leadership That Gets Result_Daniel Goleman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership Coaching
SUMMARY: The coaching leadership style can have a positive impact on business performance, but requires time and expertise, and works best with employees who are open to learning and growth.
KEYWORDS: leadership coaching, performance management, employee development
---

the coaching style is used least often. Many

leaders told us they don’t have the time in

this high-pressure economy for the slow and

tedious work of teaching people and helping

them grow. But after a first session, it takes

little or no extra time. Leaders who ignore

this style are passing up a powerful tool: its

impact on climate and performance are

markedly positive.

Admittedly, there is a paradox in coaching’s

positive effect on business performance be-

cause coaching focuses primarily on personal

development, not on immediate work-related

tasks. Even so, coaching improves results. The

reason: it requires constant dialogue, and that

dialogue has a way of pushing up every driver

of climate. Take flexibility. When an employee

knows his boss watches him and cares about

what he does, he feels free to experiment.

HARVARD BUSINESS, REVIEW Jo RCH-AP}

GE 10

locument is aur

ol ade Only by havis Liddle (TRAVISLIDDLE23@GMAIL.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright, Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Leadership That Gets Results

Leaders who have

mastered four or more—

especially the

authoritative,

democratic, affiliative,

and coaching styles—

have the best climate and

business performance.

VARD INESS, REVIEW * =

HARVARD QUSINESS REVI ACS SRM AA La

his document is au

After all, he’s sure to get quick and construc-

tive feedback. Similarly, the ongoing dialogue

of coaching guarantees that people know what

is expected of them and how their work fits

into a larger vision or strategy. That affects re-

sponsibility and clarity. As for commitment,

coaching helps there, too, because the style’s

implicit message is, “I believe in you, [’m in-

vesting in you, and I expect your best efforts”

Employees very often rise to that challenge

with their heart, mind, and soul.

The coaching style works well in many busi-

ness situations, but it is perhaps most effective

when people on the receiving end are “up for

it” For instance, the coaching style works par-

ticularly well when employees are already

aware of their weaknesses and would like to

improve their performance. Similarly, the style

works well when employees realize how culti-

vating new abilities can help them advance. In

short, it works best with employees who want

to be coached,

By contrast, the coaching style makes little

sense when employees, for whatever reason,

are resistant to learning or changing their

ways. And it flops if the leader lacks the exper-

tise to help the employee along. The fact is,

many managers are unfamiliar with or simply

inept at coaching, particularly when it comes

to giving ongoing performance feedback that

motivates rather than creates fear or apathy.

Some companies have realized the positive im-

pact of the style and are trying to make it a

core competence, At some companies, a signifi-

cant portion of annual bonuses are tied to an

executive’s development of his or her direct re-

ports. But many organizations have yet to take

full advantage of this leadership style. Al-

though the coaching style may not scream

“bottom-line results,’ it delivers them.

Leaders Need Many Styles

Many studies, including this one, have shown

that the more styles a leader exhibits, the bet-

ter. Leaders who have mastered four or

more-~especially the authoritative, demo-

cratic, affiliative, and coaching styles—have

the very best climate and business perfor-

mance, And the most effective leaders switch

flexibly among the leadership styles as

needed. Although that may sound daunting,

we witnessed it more often than you might

guess, at both large corporations and tiny

start-ups, by seasoned veterans who could ex-

plain exactly how and why they lead and by

entrepreneurs who claim to lead by gut alone.

Such leaders don’t mechanically match their

style to fit a checklist of situations—they are

far more fluid. They are exquisitely sensitive to

the impact they are having on others and

seamlessly adjust their style to get the best re-

sults. These are leaders, for example, who can

read in the first minutes of conversation that a

talented but underperforming employee has

been demoralized by an unsympathetic, do-it-

the-way-I-tell-you manager and needs to be in-

spired through a reminder of why her work

matters. Or that leader might choose to reener-

gize the employee by asking her about her

dreams and aspirations and finding ways to

make her job more challenging. Or that initial

conversation might signal that the employee

needs an ultimatum: improve or leave.

For an example of fluid leadership in action,

consider Joan, the general manager of a major

division at a global food and beverage com-

pany. Joan was appointed to her job while the

division was in a deep crisis. It had not made

its profit targets for six years; in the most re-

cent year, it had missed by $50 million. Morale

among the top management team was misera-

ble; mistrust and resentments were rampant.

Joan's directive from above was clear: turn the

division around.

Joan did so with a nimbleness in switching

among leadership styles that is rare. From the

start, she realized she had a short window to

demonstrate effective leadership and to estab-

lish rapport and trust. She also knew that she

urgently needed to be informed about what

was not working, so her first task was to listen

to key people.

Her first week on the job she had lunch and

dinner meetings with each member of the

management team. Joan sought to get each

person’s understanding of the current situa-

tion. But her focus was not so much on Jearn-

ing how each person diagnosed the problem as

on getting to know each manager as a person.

Here Joan employed the affiliative style: she

explored their lives, dreams, and aspirations.

She also stepped into the coaching role,

looking for ways she could help the team

members achieve what they wanted in their

careers, For instance, one manager who had

been getting feedback that he was a poor team

player confided his worries to her. He thought