SOURCE: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Military Training and Tactics
SUMMARY: The text describes the Army's After Action Review (AAR) process, which is used by the Opposing Force (OPFOR) to continuously learn and improve their tactics in training exercises.
KEYWORDS: After Action Review, Military Training, OPFOR, Tactical Execution, Operational Orders
---

[Document: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf]

consulting.com), Charles Parry team members gather to share insights and in 1981 to help Army leaders adapt quickly in

(cparry@signetconsulting.com), and identify mistakes and successes. Their conclu- the dynamic, unpredictable situations they

retired Colonel Joseph Moore sions are expected to flow—by formal or infor- were sure to face. And that is the AAR as

(jmoore@signetconsulting.com) are re- mal channels—to other teams and eventually OPFOR practices it every day.

searchers and consultants with Boston- coalesce into best practices and global stan-

based Signet Consulting Group. Moore dards. More than a Meeting

is a former commander of the 11th Ar- Mostly though, that doesn’t happen. Al- Much of the civilian world’s confusion over

mored Cavalry Regiment, the Opposing though the companies we studied actively look AARs began because management writers fo-

Force at the U.S. Army’s National Train- for lessons, few learn them in a meaningful cused only on the AAR meeting itself. OP-

ing Center in Fort Irwin, California. way. One leader at a large manufacturing com- FOR’s AARs, by contrast, are part of a cycle

harvard business review • july–august 2005 page 3

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Learning in the Thick of It

that starts before and continues throughout defeated or cut off from their supplies.”

each campaign against BLUFOR. (BLUFOR The commander shares these orders with

units conduct AARs as well, but OPFOR has his subordinate commanders—the leaders in

made a fine art of them.) OPFOR’s AAR regi- charge of infantry, munitions, intelligence, lo-

men includes brief huddles, extended plan- gistics, artillery, air, engineers, and communi-

ning and review sessions, copious note taking cations. He then asks each for a “brief back”—

by everyone, and the explicit linking of lessons a verbal description of the unit’s understand-

to future actions. ing of its mission (to ensure everyone is on

The AAR cycle for each phase of the cam- the same page) and its role. This step builds

paign begins when the senior commander accountability: “You said it. I heard it.” The

drafts “operational orders.” This document con- brief back subsequently guides these leaders

sists of four parts: the task (what actions subor- as they work out execution plans with their

dinate units must take); the purpose (why the subordinates.

task is important); the commander’s intent Later that day, or the next morning, the

(what the senior leader is thinking, explained commander’s executive officer (his second in

so that subordinates can pursue his goals even command) plans and conducts a rehearsal,

if events don’t unfold as expected); and the end which includes every key participant. Most re-

state (what the desired result is). It might look hearsals take place on a scale model of the bat-

like this: tlefield, complete with hills sculpted from

Task: “Seize key terrain in the vicinity of Tiefort sand, spray-painted roads, and placards denot-

City…” ing major landmarks. The rehearsal starts with

Purpose: “…so that the main effort can safely a restatement of the mission and the senior

pass to the north.” commander’s intent, an intelligence update on

Commander’s Intent: “I want to find the enemy positions and strength, and a break-

enemy’s strength and place fixing forces there down of the battle’s projected critical phases.

while our assault force maneuvers to his flank Each time the executive officer calls out a

to complete the enemy’s defeat. The plan calls phase, the unit leaders step out onto the ter-

for that to happen here, but if it doesn’t, you rain model to the position they expect to oc-

leaders have to tell me where the enemy is and cupy during that part of the action. They state

which flank is vulnerable.” their groups’ tasks and purposes within the

End State: “In the end, I want our forces in larger mission, the techniques they will apply

control of the key terrain, with all enemy units in that phase, and the resources they expect to

have available. After some discussion about

what tactics the enemy might use and how

units will communicate and coordinate in the

Learning to Be OPFOR thick of battle, the executive officer calls out

the next phase and the process is repeated.

The 11th Armored Cavalry Regiment cently gave up its home-court advantage As a result of this disciplined preparation,

(ACR), which has played the Opposing and traveled to BLUFOR’s home base the action that follows becomes a learning ex-

Force (OPFOR) for more than a decade, when that unit-in-training’s deployment periment. Each unit within OPFOR has estab-

is a brigade of regular U.S. Army sol- date was moved up. lished a clear understanding of what it intends

diers. In the current environment, every Nonetheless, the Army is satisfied that to do and how it plans to do it and has shared

Army unit that is deployable has been this new OPFOR—now one year into its that understanding with all other units. The

activated—including the 11th ACR, role—is successfully preparing combat units have individually and collectively made

which is now overseas. units for deployment to the Middle East. predictions about what will occur, identified

It will return. In the meantime, a Na- It has managed that, in large part, by le- challenges that may arise, and built into their

tional Guard unit that fought side by veraging the after-action review (AAR) plans ways to address those challenges. So

side with the 11th ACR for ten years has regimen it learned from the 11th ACR. It when OPFOR acts, it will be executing a plan

assumed the OPFOR mantle. This new is difficult to imagine a more dramatic but also observing and testing that plan. The

OPFOR faces even greater challenges change than the wholesale replacement early meetings and rehearsals produce a test-

than the regular brigade did. It is of one team by another. That the new able hypothesis: “In this situation, given this