SOURCE: HBR_Showrooming at Best Buy.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Strategies
SUMMARY: This case study examines how traditional brick-and-mortar retailers like Best Buy responded to the rise of showrooming, where shoppers used physical stores to browse products but then purchased them online.
KEYWORDS: showrooming, retail strategies, price matching, online shopping, brick-and-mortar stores
---

9-515-019

REV: JANUARY 12, 2015

THALES TEIXEIRA

ELIZABETH ANNE WATKINS

Showrooming at Best Buy

At the height of the 2012 holiday shopping season, stores were packed with customers checking

out the best and brightest of the year’s gadgets. They crowded around store counters to tap

touchscreen buttons, marvel at the glowing displays of the newest tablets, and play the latest games

and apps right there in the store. Despite the modest increase in store traffic, the cash registers at the

end of the day told a sobering story. At home-goods retailer Target, sales were flat, with no increase

in revenue at all over the previous year.1 Best Buy, the world’s largest electronics retailer, fared even

worse: sales at stores opened in the previous year had fallen by over 4%.2 At department store J.C.

Penney, same-store sales fell by 26% compared to the same period the year before.3 This was a

marked contrast to the global online retail market, which was expanding at a rate of 17% per year.4

While many traditional retailers had been responding to weak holiday shopping by holding their

customary “doorbuster” sales offering significant discounts, Amazon, eBay, and other online retailers

opted to release mobile phone apps designed to give shoppers an easy way to search online for the

best deals. Shoppers with a tight holiday budget still went to physical stores to check out new

products, but these mobile apps could now be used to easily find better prices and discounts online.

In effect, shoppers began using brick-and-mortar retail stores as show rooms. During 2012’s holiday

shopping season, 27% of mobile phone owners used their phone while inside a store to look up the

price of a product elsewhere.5 Price differences had in effect become transparent and effortless to

compare. Traditional retailers now faced a critical question: how could they compete in a world in

which shoppers could easily see competing prices and offers?

Retailers initially experimented with a combination of counter-attacks. Clothing retailer Macy’s

redesigned its stores to work more closely with mobile devices, allowing shoppers to pay for items

with their phones and tablets in-store.6 Other stores offered perks unavailable from online

competitors, like extended customer service. Target and Wal-Mart chose to fight fire with fire and

created their own shopping apps to reach shoppers with coupons and discounts, while Old Navy,

J.C. Penney, and Crate & Barrel introduced shopping apps designed by third-party companies. The

most extreme reaction came from consumer electronics retailer Best Buy, which decided to

permanently price-match online competitors. This meant that Best Buy would match any price that

customers found from an approved list of competitors, including online retailers such as Amazon.

Could a traditional brick-and-mortar retailer like Best Buy, which had higher operating costs than

online retailers, afford to permanently price match its online competitors?

Professor Thales Teixeira and Research Associate Elizabeth Anne Watkins prepared this case. This case was developed from published sources.

Funding for the development of this case was provided by Harvard Business School and not by the company. HBS cases are developed solely as

the basis for class discussion. Cases are not intended to serve as endorsements, sources of primary data, or illustrations of effective or ineffective

management.

Copyright © 2014, 2015 President and Fellows of Harvard College. To order copies or request permission to reproduce materials, call 1-800-545-

7685, write Harvard Business School Publishing, Boston, MA 02163, or go to www.hbsp.harvard.edu. This publication may not be digitized,

photocopied, or otherwise reproduced, posted, or transmitted, without the permission of Harvard Business School.

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

515-019 Showrooming at Best Buy

Online Shopping and Price Comparison Apps

The U.S. economy recovered slowly after the global recession of 2008. At the time, online

shopping comprised only 5% of U.S. retail sales7 with most goods still being purchased offline.

Unemployment remained high; people saved more and spent less in stores. According to

ShopperTrak, retail foot traffic dropped year-over-year over 28% in 2011 and over 16% in 2012. 8

Online spending told a story of a changing landscape with online sales rising by 42% between

2008 and 2012.9 The rise of Amazon and other online retailers was changing the way people shopped

as the Internet made it easy to find user reviews and information on prices. In 2012, on the day after

Thanksgiving—traditionally known as Black Friday, which marks the beginning of the American

holiday shopping season—shoppers spent a record $1.042 billion online, an increase of 26% over the

same day in 2011,10 bringing online retail sales up to 9.3% of total Black Friday spending.11

As e-commerce grew, some shoppers of electronics still preferred to visit stores to check out a new

flat-screen TV or listen to a stereo in person and then go home to spend time looking for deals online.

With an interest in encouraging this behavior, Amazon was one of the first to launch a mobile app for

people to begin their price hunting earlier, when they were still inside the store.

Amazon’s price-comparison app

Amazon was one of the companies most successful in pulling customers away from traditional

stores. After the success of its retail website it introduced a shopping app for mobile phones, which

shoppers could use to search for products in Amazon’s online listings.12 The company soon followed

that with its first price-comparison app in 2010.13 A customer could type in the name of the product,

or simply take pictures of it or of its barcode with their phone’s camera. The app would then search

for the item within Amazon’s inventory and the inventories of other partner retailers, often finding it

at a lower price (see Exhibit 1). To increase new customer adoption, Amazon offered a promotional

deal of a $15 discount to anyone who used the app to buy online while in a physical retail store.14