SOURCE: HBR_Leadership That Gets Result_Daniel Goleman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The article discusses how leaders can develop their leadership styles to effectively respond to changing business environments and achieve desired results.
KEYWORDS: leadership styles, emotional intelligence, business environment, leadership development, leadership effectiveness
---

“job performance.” With our new research,

leaders, too, can get a clearer picture of

what it takes to lead effectively. And per

haps as important, they can see how they

can make that happen.

The business environment is continually

changing, and a leader must respond in kind.

Hour to hour, day to day, week to week, execu-

tives must play their leadership styles like a pro—

using the right one at just the right time and in

the right measure. The payoff is in the results.

1. Daniel Goleman consults with Hay/McBer

on leadership development.

Reprint RO0204

To order, see the next page

or call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500

or go to www.hbr.org

EW < OACE

HARVARO GRaINER ty Futistizel Meee She bes Liddle (TRAVISLIDDLE23@GMAIL.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please conte? B14

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Harvard Business Review #

To Order

For Harvard Business Review reprints and

subscriptions, call 800-988-0886 or

617-783-7500, Go to www.hbrorg

For customized and quantity orders of

Harvard Business Review article reprints,

call 617-783-7626, or e-mail

customizations@hbsp harvard.edu

Leadership That Gets Results

Further Reading

ARTICLES

What Makes a Leader?

by Daniel Goleman

Harvard Business Review

November-December 1998

Product no. Rogo1H

“Leadership That Gets Results” is Goleman’s

follow-up to this article, A study of 200 global

companies reveals that soft skills have a lot

to do with emotional intelligence, which,

Goleman argues, is the key component of

leadership, Emotional intelligence com-

prises self-awareness, self-regulation, motiva-

tion, empathy, and social skill. In the work-

place, it manifests itself not simply in the

ability to control your temper or get along

with others, Rather, it involves knowing your

own and your colleagues’ emotional makeup

well enough to be able to move people in di-

rections that help accomplish company

goals, Emotional intelligence isn’t just an in

nate talent, Goleman insists—it can be mea-

sured, learned, and developed,

The Ways Chief Executive Officers Lead

by Charles M. Farkas and Suzy Wetlaufer

Harvard Business Review

May~June 1996

Product no, 96303

Goleman pinpoints emotional intelligence as

the key element of successful leadership; Far-

kas and Wetlaufer zero in on the leader's fo-

cus. Whereas Goleman emphasizes matching

the leadership style to a particular business

situation, Farkas and Wetlaufer concentrate

on the particular approach that leaders

choose. The authors interviewed 160 CEOs

around the world, inquiring about their atti-

tudes, activities, and perspectives. Instead of

uncovering 160 different leadership styles,

they found only five, each with a singular fo-

cus: strategy, people, expertise, controls, or

change. For example, CEOs who focus on

strategy “believe that their most important

job is to create, test, and design the imple-

mentation of long-term strategy.’ CEOs who

use the “box approach” believe “they can add

the most value in their organizations by cre-

ating, communicating, and monitoring an

explicit set of controls—financial, cultural, or

both--that ensure uniform, predictable be-

haviors for customers and employees.”

What Effective General Managers Really

Do

by John P Kotter

Harvard Business Review

March-April 1999

Product no. 99208

Managers who carefully control their time

and work within highly structured environ-

ments may be undermining their effective-

ness. Kotter demonstrates how such seem-

ingly wasteful activities as chatting in

hallways and holding impromptu meetings

can actually be a very efficient way of man-

aging. When he describes the two funda-

mental challenges managers face—figuring

out what to do in the midst of an enormous

amount of potentially relevant information

and getting things done through a large

and diverse set of people, most of whom

the manager has no direct control over-—

Kotter shows some awareness of the emo-

tional intelligence these challenges call for.

But his primary point is about managers tak~

ing a strategic approach to the tactical issue

of handling their schedules and interac-

tions, He advises managers to develop flexi-

ble agendas and broad networks of people.

Flexible agendas enable managers to react

opportunistically to the flow of events

around them. And with broad networks,

even quick and pointed conversations can

help extend managers’ reach well beyond

their formal chain of command.

PAGE 1

This document is authorized for use only by Travis Liddie (TRAVISLIDDLE23@GMAIL.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact 5

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.