SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Public Speaking and Presentation Skills
SUMMARY: This guide provides practical advice on preparing and delivering effective presentations, including developing an elevator pitch, overcoming stage fright, and creating engaging visuals.
KEYWORDS: public speaking, presentation skills, elevator pitch, stage fright, visual aids
---

Guide to

Persuasive

Presentations

Harvard

Business

‘Review

Harvard

Business

Review

Preparing an important presentation? Whether your

audience is a small group of colleagues or a larger gathering

of clients, this guide will give you the practical advice you

need te master public speaking. You'll learn how to:

« Shape your information to specifically address your audience's needs

« Prepare visual aids that develop, rather than distract from, your points

« Overcome stage fright

» Grab your listeners’ attention and hold it

Guide to Persuasive

Presentations

2 The Basic Presentation Checklist

5 How to Make Your Case in 30 Seconds or Less

by Nick Wreden

8 Coping with Stagefright

by John Daly and tsa Engleberg

12 Presentations 101

by John Clayton

15 Easy on the Eyes

by Kirsten D. Sandberg

19 Plan for Visuals

22 Why the Best Presentations Are Good Conversations

by Roly Grimshaw

25 Connect with Your Audience

by Nick Morgan

28 Presence: How to Get It, How to Use It

32 Are Your Presentations Inspiring?

35 The Twentieth Century’s Greatest Speech—What Made It So Powerful?

page 2

HARVARD MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATION LETTER

The Basic Presentation

Checklist

Here’s how to prepare and deliver that next

speech effectively

Inape rfect world, you would have learned about the presentation months ago. Your personal

assistant would have spent weeks researching startling factoids about the topic. And you'd be sitting

down well in advance of the event with hours to spend preparing your presentation.

Instead, the reality usually is last-minute. You're pulling together material on the fly froma number of

old talks and hoping no one will notice that the whole hasn’t really been thought through.

But you can improve that all-too-typical experience with this basic checklist of the necessary steps for

a successful presentation. Following these steps won’t give you a less hectic schedule, but they can

ensure that you don’t miss something obvious the next time you have to talk in public.

1. Develop the elevator speech. The first step is the most important and the most often ignored.

Here’s how it works. You're on the elevator riding down from your room to the mezzanine floor where

the conference is going on. The person standing next to you sees your name badge and says, “Oh, I

was thinking of attending your talk. What’s it about?” You’ve got less than 30 seconds to tell her. What

do you say?

You need to craft one sentence that answers that question. The answer should clearly contain the

benefit that the listener will derive from the speech. For example, President Kennedy might have

said, “My inaugural address is about how we can strengthen America and defeat world communism

by working together on behalf of freedom at home and abroad.” The thought process will often be

dificult, but it will help you focus your thinking about what you want to say.

www. hbrorg

The Basic Presentation Checklist

Match the meed

that the audience

has to act on its

new knowledge

with some specific

suggestions about

what to do.

2. Figure out the question to which your

information is the answer. At the heart of your

presentation is a body of information that you

and you alone have. That’s why you’ve been

invited to speak. But you can’t begin by simply

dumping that data on your audience. Listeners

come to a presentation asking, “Why are we

here?” That’s the question you need to answer

first. So reason backwards. Look at what you

want to say~the information you have—and

figure out what question the audience would

have to have in mind in order to make that

information a fascinating, provocative answer,

You need Lo spend approximately the first third

of your speech asking that question—more if the

question is not well understood by the audience,

less if it is. You may have to do some research.

Here’s where you reveal to the audience the

startling facts and interesting trends that will

establish you as someone in the knowand create

aneed for your listeners to hear your answer.

In Kennedy's case, he had to spend some time

at the beginning of the address establishing

the threat of world communism in order

for his response—a strong national defense

and the Peace Corps—to be interesting to his

listeners. Because the threat was already widely

subscribed to by the American people in 1961,

Kennedy could deal with it quickly.

3. Create the opener. Now you need to develop

the opening story or anecdote~-or question or

factoid or statistic—that will establish the topic

of your talk and grab the listeners’ interest ina

very few words. This section of the talk should

take no more than a couple of minutes. Think

of it as the speech in brief. You don’t want to

give away your whole talk, but you do want to

both orient and tease your listeners so that they

have some idea of what’s coming and want to

hear more. Pointed, carefully crafted personal

anecdotes work best when they don’t contain

any irrelevant information. Jokes are usually

not a good idea—you're at your most nervous

momentin the presentation, and punch lines are

always hard to deliver well. The opportunities

for screwing up are legion.

An exception to that rule—justifiable perhaps

because the speaker was a humorist—comes

from the brilliant opening of Art Buchwald’s

graduation speech to Catholic University’s

Columbus School of Law in 1977. It’s actually a

personal anecdote and a joke.

Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations

“Iam no stranger to the bar. I first became

interested in the law when I was working in

Paris for the Herald Tribune, and I covered a trial

which had to do with a couple caught in a very

compromising situation in a Volkswagen. Now,

everyone in France was interested in the case

because it had to do with such a small car. The

defense lawyer argued it was impossible to do

what the couple had been accused of doing ina

Volkswagen. The judge said he didn’t knowif this