SOURCE: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: After Action Review (AAR) Process
SUMMARY: This text discusses how companies can leverage the After Action Review (AAR) process to improve their response to emergencies, product development, new business ventures, sales, and mergers and acquisitions.
KEYWORDS: After Action Review, Continuous Improvement, Organizational Learning, Business Strategy, Operational Efficiency
---

[Document: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf]

committed to working through several some ways you can use AARs, based on More than a Postmortem

AAR cycles. Focus on areas critical to a examples from companies that have used Corporate AARs are often convened around

team’s mission so members have good them effectively. failed projects. The patient is pronounced

harvard business review • july–august 2005 page 6

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Learning in the Thick of It

The AAR in practice The payoff

1 >>Survey past emergencies to identify types >>Avoid similar emergencies in

of events and learning challenges. the future.

Emergency >>Ask team members to take notes during >>Improve the speed and quality

response the response process to facilitate the ofyour responses and damage

upcoming AAR. control.

>>Conduct AARs during the response >>Improve the long-term

process (if possible) or immediately effectiveness of your solutions.

afterward to begin building procedures

and long-term solutions.

>>Periodically review past AARs to identify

potential systems improvements.

2 >>Start each phase of product development >>Improve quality,reduce cost,

with a before-action review (BAR). and shorten time to market.

Product >>Conduct AARs to identify insights >>Anticipate customers’changing

development to feed from one phase of product expectations.

development into the next—and then

into the next project.

>>Periodically conduct AARs on the

product-planning process to identify

potential improvements.

3 >>Launch business planning with a BAR >>Apply lessons from past successes

to re ect on past lessons. and failures to improve results on

Entering a >>Conduct AARs throughout the launch new ventures.

new business process to test lessons and create

innovative solutions.

or market

>>Conduct a wrap-up AAR to improve

performance on the next venture.

4 >>Build AARs into the sales process, >>Improve the win/loss ratio.

focusing as much on learning from wins >>Re ne the value proposition

Sales as from losses. for a new product.

>>Conduct AARs on customer defections

to competitors’products.

5 >>Build AARs into strategy,negotiation, >>Ensure that transactions deliver

due diligence,and execution phases promised value to stakeholders.

Mergers and to continually reveal,test,and modify

assumptions about the deal.

acquisitions

>>Wrap up each M&A activity by compar-

ing it with previous efforts to identify

problems and good ideas.

harvard business review • july–august 2005 page 7

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

.devreser

sthgir

llA

.noitaroproC

gnihsilbuP

loohcS

ssenisuB

dravraH

5002

©

thgirypoC

Learning in the Thick of It

dead, and everyone weighs in on the mistakes we’ll see writ large in a few weeks. We really do

that contributed to his demise. The word “ac- need to take lessons from these fights, realizing

countability” comes up a lot—generally it that we’ll have a far more mobile attack unit.

means “blame,” which participants expend Deception will be an issue. Multiple routes will

considerable energy trying to avoid. There is a be an issue. Our job is to figure out common

sense of finality to these sessions. The team is targets. We need to rethink how to track move-

putting a bad experience behind it. ment. How many scouts do we need in close to

“Accountability” comes up a lot during OP- the objective area to see soldiers? They will be

FOR’s AARs as well, but in that context it is for- extremely well-equipped. So one thing I’m

ward-looking rather than backward-looking. challenging everyone to do is to be prepared to

Units are accountable for learning their own discard your norms next month. It’s time to sit

lessons. And OPFOR’s leaders are account- down and talk with your sergeants about how

able for taking lessons from one situation you fight a unit with a well-trained infantry.”

and applying them to others—for forging ex- Immediately after the AAR meeting breaks

plicit links between past experience and future up, commanders gather their units to conduct

performance. their own AARs. Each group applies lessons

At the end of an AAR meeting, the senior from these AAR meetings to plan its future ac-

commander stands and offers his own assess- tions—for example, repositioning scouts to

ment of the day’s major lessons and how they better track infantry movements in the next

relate to what was learned and validated dur- battle.

ing earlier actions. He also identifies the two or OPFOR also makes its lessons available to

three lessons he expects will prove most rele- BLUFOR: The groups’ commanders meet be-

vant to the next battle or rotation. If the units fore rotations, and OPFOR’s commander al-

focus on more than a few lessons at a time, lows himself to be “captured” by BLUFOR at

they risk becoming overwhelmed. If they focus the conclusion of battles in order to attend its

on lessons unlikely to be applied until far in AARs. At those meetings, the OPFOR com-

the future, soldiers might forget. mander explains his brigade’s planning as-

At the meeting following the infantry battle sumptions and tactics and answers his oppo-

described earlier, for example, the senior com- nents’ questions.

mander summed up this way: “To me, this set Beyond those conferences with BLUFOR,

of battles was a good rehearsal for something formally spreading lessons to other units for

later application—the chief focus of many cor-

porate AARs—is not in OPFOR’s job descrip-

tion. The U.S. Army uses formal knowledge

Doctrine and Tactics systems to capture and disseminate important

lessons to large, dispersed audiences, and the

The lessons produced and validated by inform the Army’s other class of organi- National Training Center contributes indi-

the U.S. Army’s Opposing Force (OPFOR) zational knowledge: doctrine. Doctrine— rectly to those. (See the sidebar “Doctrine and

and the units it trains at the National which rarely changes and is shared by the Tactics.”) Informal knowledge sharing among

Training Center (NTC) in Fort Irwin, Cali- entire Army—establishes performance peers, however, is very common. OPFOR’s