SOURCE: HBR_Leadership That Gets Result_Daniel Goleman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership Styles
SUMMARY: The text examines the democratic leadership style, where a leader builds trust and commitment by involving employees in decision-making.
KEYWORDS: democratic leadership, employee engagement, decision-making, change management, organizational culture
---

a potent combination.

The Democratic Style. Sister Mary ran a

Catholic school system in a large metropolitan

area, One of the schools—the only private

school in an impoverished neighborhood—

had been losing money for years, and the arch-

diocese could no longer afford to keep it open.

When Sister Mary eventually got the order to

shut it down, she didn’t just lock the doors.

She called a meeting of all the teachers and

staff at the school and explained to them the

details of the financial crisis—the first time

anyone working at the school had been in-

cluded in the business side of the institution.

She asked for their ideas on ways to keep the

school open and on how to handle the closing,

should it come to that. Sister Mary spent

Pacesetting

Democratic

much of her time at the meeting just listening.

She did the same at later meetings for

school parents and for the community and dur-

ing a successive series of meetings for the

school’s teachers and staff. After two months

of meetings, the consensus was clear: the

school would have to close. A plan was made

to transfer students to other schools in the

Catholic system.

The final outcome was no different than if

Sister Mary had gone ahead and closed the

school the day she was told to. But by allowing

the school’s constituents to reach that decision

collectively, Sister Mary received none of the

backlash that would have accompanied such a

move. People mourned the loss of the school,

but they understood its inevitability, Virtually

no one objected.

Compare that with the experiences of a

priest in our research who headed another

Catholic school. He, too, was told to shut it

down. And he did—by fiat. The result was di-

sastrous: parents filed lawsuits, teachers and

parents picketed, and local newspapers ran edi-

torials attacking his decision. It took a year to

resolve the disputes before he could finally go

ahead and close the school.

Sister Mary exemplifies the democratic

style in action—and its benefits. By spending

time getting people’s ideas and buy-in, a

leader builds trust, respect, and commitment.

By letting workers themselves have a say in

decisions that affect their goals and how they

Coaching

E : = pl GE 8

HARVARD documentis auliorized fot Use only by-travis Liddle (TRAVISLIDDLE23@GMAIL.COM), Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contadt"

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Leadership That Gets Results

do their work, the democratic leader drives

up flexibility and responsibility. And by listen-

ing to employees’ concerns, the democratic

leader learns what to do to keep morale high.

Finally, because they have a say in setting

their goals and the standards for evaluating

success, people operating in a democratic sys-

tem tend to be very realistic about what can

and cannot be accomplished.

However, the democratic style has its draw-

backs, which is why its impact on climate is not

as high as some of the other styles. One of its

more exasperating consequences can be end-

less meetings where ideas are mulled over, con-

sensus remains elusive, and the only visible re-

sult is scheduling more meetings. Some

democratic leaders use the style to put off

making crucial decisions, hoping that enough

thrashing things out will eventually yield a

blinding insight. In reality, their people end up

feeling confused and leaderless. Such an ap-

proach can even escalate conflicts.

When does the style work best? This ap-

proach is ideal when a leader is himself uncer-

tain about the best direction to take and needs

ideas and guidance from able employees, And

even if a leader has a strong vision, the demo-

cratic style works well to generate fresh ideas

for executing that vision.

The democratic style, of course, makes

much less sense when employees are not com-

petent or informed enough to offer sound ad-

vice. And it almost goes without saying that

building consensus is wrongheaded in times

of crisis. Take the case of a CEO whose com-

puter company was severely threatened by

changes in the market. He always sought con-

sensus about what to do. As competitors stole

customers and customers’ needs changed, he

kept appointing committees to consider the

situation. When the market made a sudden

shift because of a new technology, the CEO

froze in his tracks. The board replaced him

before he could appoint yet another task

force to consider the situation. The new CEO,

while occasionally democratic and affiliative,

relied heavily on the authoritative style, espe-

cially in his first months.

The Pacesetting Style. Like the coercive

style, the pacesetting style has its place in the

leader's repertory, but it should be used spar-

ingly. That’s not what we expected to find.

After all, the hallmarks of the pacesetting style

sound admirable. The leader sets extremely

high performance standards and exemplifies

them himself. He is obsessive about doing

things better and faster, and he asks the same

of everyone around him. He quickly pinpoints

poor performers and demands more from

them. If they don’t rise to the occasion, he re-

places them with people who can. You would

think such an approach would improve re-

sults, but it doesn’t.

In fact, the pacesetting style destroys cli-

mate, Many employees feel overwhelmed by

the pacesetter’s demands for excellence, and

their morale drops. Guidelines for working

may be clear in the leader’s head, but she

does not state them clearly; she expects peo-

ple to know what to do and even thinks, “If I

have to tell you, you’re the wrong person for

the job.’ Work becomes not a matter of doing

one’s best along a clear course so much as second-

guessing what the leader wants, At the same

time, people often feel that the pacesetter

doesn’t trust them to work in their own way

or to take initiative. Flexibility and responsi-

bility evaporate; work becomes so task fo-

cused and routinized it’s boring.

As for rewards, the pacesetter either gives no