SOURCE: HBR_Leadership That Gets Result_Daniel Goleman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership Styles and Organizational Climate
SUMMARY: The text discusses the appropriate use of the coercive leadership style and the benefits of the authoritative style in improving organizational climate and performance.
KEYWORDS: leadership styles, organizational climate, coercive style, authoritative style
---

no one could miss, and the division’s culture

changed quickly in its wake,

That said, the coercive style should be used

only with extreme caution and in the few situa-

tions when it is absolutely imperative, such as

during a turnaround or when a hostile take-

over is looming. In those cases, the coercive

style can break failed business habits and shock

people into new ways of working. It is always

appropriate during a genuine emergency, like

in the aftermath of an earthquake or a fire.

And it can work with problem employees with

whom all else has failed. But if a leader relies

solely on this style or continues to use it once

the emergency passes, the long-term impact of

his insensitivity to the morale and feelings of

those he leads will be ruinous.

The Authoritative Style. Tom was the vice

president of marketing at a floundering na-

tional restaurant chain that specialized in

pizza. Needless to say, the company’s poor

performance troubled the senior managers,

but they were at a loss for what to do. Every

Monday, they met to review recent sales,

struggling to come up with fixes. To Tom, the

approach didn’t make sense. “We were al-

ways trying to figure out why our sales were

down last week. We had the whole company

looking backward instead of figuring out

Getting Molecular: The Impact of Leadership Styles on Drivers of Climate

Our research investigated how each leadership style affected the six

drivers of climate, or working atmosphere. The figures below show

the correlation between each leadership style and each aspect of cli-

mate. So, for instance, if we look at the climate driver of flexibility, we

see that the coercive style has a -.28 correlation while the democratic

style has a .28 correlation, equally strong in the opposite direction.

uses,

Focusing on the authoritative leadership style, we find that it has a.54

correlation with rewards—strongly positive—and a .21 correlation with

tesponsibility—positive, but not as strong. In other words, the style’s

Flexibility

Responsibility.

Standards

Rewards

Clarity, :

HARVARD

Commitment

USINE:!

his documen

SS REVIEW + M

is authorizes

RCH-AP:

for Use oni

Authoritative

oy)

72) : +23

138

54

44

335

Democratic

+28

122.

42

correlation with rewards was more than twice that with responsibility.

According to the data, the authoritative leadership style has the most

positive effect on climate, but three others—affiliative, democratic, and

coaching—follow close behind. That said, the research indicates that

no style should be relied on exclusively, and all have at least short-term

Coaching

HY by Ravis Liddle (TRAVISLIDDLE23@GMAIL.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact "= 5

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Leadership That Gets Results

An authoritative leader

states the end but gives

people their own means.

HARVARD BUSINESS. REV|

what we had to do tomorrow.”

Tom saw an opportunity to change people's

way of thinking at an offsite strategy meeting.

There, the conversation began with stale tru-

isms: the company had to drive up shareholder

wealth and increase return on assets. Tom be-

lieved those concepts didn’t have the power to

inspire a restaurant manager to be innovative

or to do better than a good-enough job.

So Tom made a bold move. In the middle of a

meeting, he made an impassioned plea for his

colleagues to think from the customer’s per

spective. Customers want convenience, he said.

The company was not in the restaurant busi-

ness, it was in the business of distributing high-

quality, convenient-to-get pizza. That notion—~

and nothing else—should drive everything the

company did,

With his vibrant enthusiasm and clear

vision—the hallmarks of the authoritative

style--Tom filled a leadership vacuum at the

company. Indeed, his concept became the

core of the new mission statement. But this

conceptual breakthrough was just the begin-

ning. Tom made sure that the mission state-

ment was built into the company’s strategic

planning process as the designated driver of

growth. And he ensured that the vision was

articulated so that local restaurant managers

understood they were the key to the com-

pany’s success and were free to find new

ways to distribute pizza.

Changes came quickly. Within weeks, many

local managers started guaranteeing fast, new

delivery times. Even better, they started to act

like entrepreneurs, finding ingenious locations

to open new branches: kiosks on busy street

comers and in bus and train stations, even

from carts in airports and hotel lobbies.

Tom’s success was no fluke. Our research

indicates that of the six leadership styles,

the authoritative one is most effective, driv-

ing up every aspect of climate. Take clarity.

The authoritative leader is a visionary; he

motivates people by making clear to them

how their work fits into a larger vision for

the organization. People who work for such

leaders understand that what they do mat-

ters and why. Authoritative leadership also

maximizes commitment to the organiza-

tion’s goals and strategy. By framing the in-

dividual tasks within a grand vision, the au-

thoritative leader defines standards that

revolve around that vision. When he gives

performance feedback--whether positive or

negative—the singular criterion is whether

or not that performance furthers the vision.

The standards for success are clear to all, as

are the rewards. Finally, consider the style’s

impact on flexibility. An authoritative

leader states the end but generally gives

people plenty of leeway to devise their own

means. Authoritative leaders give people

the freedom to innovate, experiment, and

take calculated risks.

Because of its positive impact, the authorita-

tive style works weil in almost any business sit-

uation. But it is particularly effective when a

business is adrift. An authoritative leader

charts a new course and sells his people on a

fresh long-term vision.

The authoritative style, powerful though it

may be, will not work in every situation. The

approach fails, for instance, when a leader is

working with a team of experts or peers who

are more experienced than he is; they may see

the leader as pompous or out-of-touch, An-