SOURCE: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Post-Action Review
SUMMARY: The text discusses the value of effective after-action review (AAR) meetings and breaking projects into smaller chunks with short BAR and AAR meetings to maximize performance and develop a learning culture.
KEYWORDS: after-action review, project management, organizational learning, feedback loops, performance improvement
---

[Document: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf]

an effective AAR meeting following the action. lessons is more valuable than any individual

In addition, breaking projects into smaller lesson learned. That capacity is what compa-

chunks, bookended by short BAR and AAR nies can gain by studying OPFOR.

meetings conducted in task-focused groups, es-

tablishes feedback loops that can help a project Reprint R0507G

team maximize performance and develop a To order, see the next page

learning culture over time. or call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500

Every organization, every team, and every or go to www.hbrreprints.org

harvard business review • july–august 2005 page 9

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Learning in the Thick of It

Further Reading

CASE ecutives must play to make learning a day-

Major Steckleson at the National to-day reality in their organizations.

Training Center (A)

VIDEO

by Scott Snook, Jeremy Schneider, and

Putting the Learning Organization to

Robert Kaderavek

Work: Learning After Doing

Harvard Business School Case

by David A. Garvin

January 5, 2004; revised August 26, 2004

Harvard Business School Publishing

Product no. 9-404-089

May 20, 1996

The U.S. Army originated the concept of Product no. 7099A

the AAR process. In this Harvard Business

When you apply the AAR process effectively,

School case, Captain James Steckleson is

you enable your company to profit from its

an “observer-controller” at the U.S. Army’s

experiences—repeating past successes while

National Training Center, located deep in the

avoiding past failures. This video shows how

heart of California’s Mojave Desert. It’s his job

the U.S. Army uses AAR to capture lessons

to make sure that the 3rd Armored Cavalry

learned after every operation and systemati-

Squadron leaves its two-week combat train-

cally share those lessons throughout its vast

ing a better unit than when it arrived. On the

organization. This program also demonstrates

squadron’s seventh day of simulated combat,

how you can immediately apply the Army’s

mistakes are made—big mistakes. Captain

simple yet powerful methodology to your

Steckleson steps in to help the unit learn—

own company.

applying the AAR process in ways that can

help any organization boost its performance

amid rapid change and uncertainty.

BOOK

Learning in Action: A Guide to Putting

the Learning Organization to Work

by David A. Garvin

Harvard Business School Press

February 2003

Product no. 1903

This book includes guidelines on applying

the AAR process to enhance organizational

learning. Garvin describes the basic steps in

every learning process—acquiring, interpret-

ing, and applying knowledge—then exam-

ines the critical challenges facing managers

To Order

at each of these stages and various ways to

meet those challenges. He then introduces

For Harvard Business Review reprints and

three modes of learning—intelligence gath-

subscriptions, call 800-988-0886 or

ering, experience, and experimentation—

617-783-7500. Go to www.hbrreprints.org

and shows how to deploy each mode effec-

tively. Detailed case studies of learning in ac-

For customized and quantity orders of

tion at organizations such as Xerox, L.L. Bean,

Harvard Business Review article reprints,

the U.S. Army, and GE are included. Garvin

call 617-783-7626, or e-mai

also discusses the leadership role senior ex-

customizations@hbsp.harvard.edu

page 10

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.