SOURCE: HBR_Leadership That Gets Result_Daniel Goleman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership Styles
SUMMARY: The research identifies six distinct leadership styles and their impact on company performance, suggesting that effective leaders use a combination of these styles.
KEYWORDS: leadership styles, emotional intelligence, management, organizational performance, leadership behavior
---

perience, and instinct. Sometimes that advice

is which precise leadership behaviors yield

positive results, Leadership experts proffer ad-

vice based on inference, experience, and in-

stinct. Sometimes that advice is right on tar-

get; sometimes it’s not.

But new research by the consulting firm

Hay/McBer, which draws on a random sample

of 3,871 executives selected from a database of

more than 20,000 executives worldwide,

takes much of the mystery out of effective

leadership. The research found six distinct

leadership styles, each springing from differ-

ent components of emotional intelligence.

The styles, taken individually, appear to have

a direct and unique impact on the working at-

mosphere of a company, division, or team,

and in turn, on its financial performance. And

perhaps most important, the research indi-

cates that leaders with the best results do not

rely on only one leadership style; they use

most of them in a given week—seamlessly

and in different measure—depending on the

business situation. Imagine the styles, then, as

. APRIL 2

HARVATE document is ausiovized tor Uae only By ravis Liddle (TRAVISLIDDLE23@GMAIL.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact = 2

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Leadership That Gets Results

Daniel Goleman is the author of

Emotional intelligence (Bantam, 1995)

and Working with Emotional intelligence

(Bantam, 1998). He is cochairman of

the Consortium for Research on Emo-

tional Intelligence in Organizations,

which is based at Rutgers University’s

Graduate School of Applied Psychoto-

gy in Piscataway, New Jersey. His article

“What Makes a Leader?” appeared in

the November~December 1998 issue of

HBR. He can be reached at goleman@

Javanet.com.

locument is authorize

the array of clubs in a golf pro’s bag. Over the

course of a game, the pro picks and chooses

clubs based on the demands of the shot.

Sometimes he has to ponder his selection, but

usually it is automatic. The pro senses the

challenge ahead, swiftly pulls out the right

tool, and elegantly puts it to work. That’s how

high-impact leaders operate, too.

What are the six styles of leadership? None

will shock workplace veterans. Indeed, each

style, by name and brief description alone,

will likely resonate with anyone who leads, is

Jed, or as is the case with most of us, does

both. Coercive leaders demand immediate

compliance. Authoritative leaders mobilize

people toward a vision. Affiliative leaders cre-

ate emotional bonds and harmony. Demo-

cratic leaders build consensus through partici-

pation. Pacesetting leaders expect excellence

and self-direction. And coaching leaders develop

people for the future.

Close your eyes and you can surely imagine

a colleague who uses any one of these styles.

You most likely use at least one yourself. What

is new in this research, then, is its implications

for action. First, it offers a fine-grained under

standing of how different leadership styles af-

fect performance and results. Second, it offers

clear guidance on when a manager should

switch between them. It also strongly suggests

that switching flexibly is well advised. New,

too, is the research's finding that each leader-

ship style springs from different components

of emotional intelligence.

Measuring Leadership’s Impact

It has been more than a decade since research

first linked aspects of emotional intelligence

to business results. The late David McClelland,

a noted Harvard University psychologist,

found that leaders with strengths in a critical

mass of six or more emotional intelligence

competencies were far more effective than

peers who lacked such strengths. For instance,

when he analyzed the performance of division

heads at a global food and beverage company,

he found that among leaders with this critical

mass of competence, 87% placed in the top

third for annual salary bonuses based on their

business performance. More telling, their divi-

sions on average outperformed yearly revenue

targets by 15% to 20%. Those executives who

lacked emotional intelligence were rarely

rated as outstanding in their annual perfor-

mance reviews, and their divisions underper-

formed by an average of almost 20%.

Our research set out to gain a more molecu-

lar view of the links among leadership and

emotional intelligence, and climate and per-

formance. A team of McClelland’s colleagues

headed by Mary Fontaine and Ruth Jacobs

from Hay/McBer studied data about or ob-

served thousands of executives, noting spe-

cific behaviors and their impact on climate.’

How did each individual motivate direct re-

ports? Manage change initiatives? Handle cri-

ses? It was in a later phase of the research

that we identified which emotional intelli-

gence capabilities drive the six leadership

styles. How does he rate in terms of self-

control and social skill? Does a leader show

high or low levels of empathy?

The team tested each executive's immediate

sphere of influence for its climate. “Climate” is

not an amorphous term. First defined by psy-

chologists George Litwin and Richard Stringer

and later refined by McClelland and his col-

leagues, it refers to six key factors that influ-

ence an organization's working environment:

its flexibility—that is, how free employees feel

to innovate unencumbered by red tape; their

sense of responsibility to the organization; the

level of standards that people set; the sense of

accuracy about performance feedback and apt-

ness of rewards; the clarity people have about

mission and values; and finally, the level of

commitment to a common purpose.

We found that all six leadership styles have a

measurable effect on each aspect of climate.

(For details, see the exhibit “Getting Molecular:

The Impact of Leadership Styles on Drivers of

Climate.’) Further, when we looked at the im-

pact of climate on financial results—such as re-

turn on sales, revenue growth, efficiency, and

profitability—we found a direct correlation be-

tween the two. Leaders who used styles that

positively affected the climate had decidedly

better financial results than those who did not.

That is not to say that organizational climate is

the only driver of performance. Economic con-

ditions and competitive dynamics matter enor-

mously. But our analysis strongly suggests that

climate accounts for nearly a third of results.