SOURCE: HBR_Leadership That Gets Result_Daniel Goleman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Organizational Climate and Leadership Styles
SUMMARY: The passage discusses how different leadership styles, particularly the coercive style, impact an organization's climate and financial performance.
KEYWORDS: organizational climate, leadership styles, coercive leadership
---

better financial results than those who did not.

That is not to say that organizational climate is

the only driver of performance. Economic con-

ditions and competitive dynamics matter enor-

mously. But our analysis strongly suggests that

climate accounts for nearly a third of results.

And that’s simply too much of an impact to ig-

nore.

The Styles in Detail

Executives use six leadership styles, but only

2

IF by AR O0is Liddle (TRAVISLIDDLE23@GMAIL.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contakt® 3

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Leadership That Gets Results

four of the six consistently have a positive ef-

fect on climate and results. Let’s look then at

each style of leadership in detail. (For a sum-

mary of the material that follows, see the

chart “The Six Leadership Styles at a Glance.”)

The Coercive Style. The computer company

was in crisis mode—its sales and profits were

falling, its stock was losing value precipitously,

and its shareholders were in an uproar. The

board brought in a new CEO with a reputation

as a turnaround artist. He set to work chop-

ping jobs, selling off divisions, and making the

tough decisions that should have been exe-

cuted years before. The company was saved, at

least in the short-term.

From the start, though, the CEO created a

reign of terror, bullying and demeaning his ex-

ecutives, roaring his displeasure at the slightest

misstep. The company’s top echelons were dec-

imated not just by his erratic firings but also by

defections. The CEO’s direct reports, fright-

ened by his tendency to blame the bearer of

bad news, stopped bringing him any news at

all. Morale was at an all-time low—a fact re-

flected in another downturn in the business

Emotional Intelligence: A Primer

Emotional intelligence—the ability to manage ourselves and our relationships effectively —

after the short-term recovery. The CEO was

eventually fired by the board of directors.

It’s easy to understand why of all the lead-

ership styles, the coercive one is the least ef-

fective in most situations. Consider what the

style does to an organization’s climate. Flexi-

bility is the hardest hit. The leader’s extreme

top-down decision making kills new ideas on

the vine. People feel so disrespected that they

think, “I won’t even bring my ideas up—

they’ll only be shot down.’ Likewise, people’s

sense of responsibility evaporates: unable to

act on their own initiative, they lose their

sense of ownership and feel little accountabil-

ity for their performance. Some become so re-

sentful they adopt the attitude, “I’m not going

to help this bastard.”

Coercive leadership also has a damaging

effect on the rewards system. Most high-

performing workers are motivated by more

than money—they seek the satisfaction of

work well done. The coercive style erodes

such pride. And finally, the style undermines

one of the leader’s prime tools—motivating

people by showing them how their job fits

consists of four fundamental capabilities: self-awareness, self-management, social awareness,

and social skill. Each capability, in turn, is composed of specific sets of competencies. Below

is a list of the capabilities and their corresponding traits,

Self-Awareness

~ Emotional self-awareness:

the ability to read and

understand your emo-

tians as wellas recagnize

their impact on work

performance, relation-

ships, and the like.

- Accurate self-assessment:

a realistic evaluation

of your strengths and

limitations.

« Self&confidence: a strong

and positive sense of

self-worth,

Self-Management

~ Self-control: the ability to.

keep disruptive emotions

and impulses under control,

+ Trustworthiness: a

consistent display of

honesty and integrity.

« Conscientiousness: the abili-

tyto manage yourselfand

your responsibilities,

« Adaptability: skill at adjust-

ing to changing situations

and overcoming obstacles.

« Achievement orientation:

the drive to meet an inter-

nal standard of excellence.

« Initiative: a readiness to

seize opportunities,

Social Awareness

+ Empathy: skill at sensing

other people's emotions,

understanding their

perspective, and taking

anactive interest in their

concerns,

« Organizational awareness:

the ability toread the

currents of organizational

life, build decision net-

works, and navigate

polities,

« Service orientation: the

ability to recognize and

meet customers’ needs.

Social Skill

+ Visionary leadership: the ability to take charge

and inspire with a compelling vision.

+ Influence: the ability to wield a range of

persuasive tactics.

+ Developing others: the propensity to bolster

the abilities of others through feedback

and guidance.

» Communication; skill at listening and at sending

clear, convincing, and well-tuned messages.

~ Change catalyst: proficiency in initiating new

ideas and leading people in a new direction.

« Confict management: the ability to de-escalate

disagreements and orchestrate resolutions.

« Building bonds: proficiency at cultivating and

maintaining a web of relationships.

« Teamwork and collaboration: competence at

promoting cooperation and building teams.

HARVARD UUSENESS, RENAE!

+ M RCH-AP)

his document is aut

W.

jorize

UF ue Only byfravis Liddle (TRAVISLIODLE23@GMAIL.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact = 4

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Leadership That Gets Results

into a grand, shared mission. Such a loss,

measured in terms of diminished clarity and

commitment, leaves people alienated from

their own jobs, wondering, “How does any of

this matter?”

Given the impact of the coercive style, you

might assume it should never be applied. Our

research, however, uncovered a few occasions

when it worked masterfully. Take the case of a

division president who was brought in to

change the direction of a food company that

was losing money. His first act was to have the

executive conference room demolished. To him,

the room—with its long marble table that looked

like “the deck of the Starship Enterprise”’—

symbolized the tradition-bound formality that

was paralyzing the company. The destruction

of the room, and the subsequent move to a

smaller, more informal setting, sent a message

no one could miss, and the division’s culture

changed quickly in its wake,

That said, the coercive style should be used

only with extreme caution and in the few situa-

tions when it is absolutely imperative, such as

during a turnaround or when a hostile take-