SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Effective Pitching and Presentations
SUMMARY: The text provides strategies for crafting a powerful 30-second elevator pitch, including knowing the audience, organizing the pitch, and hooking the listener from the start.
KEYWORDS: elevator pitch, audience research, pitch structure, attention-grabbing opening
---

it effectively. Yes, a lot of important facts may be left out, but today everyone is skilled at judging

relevancy and making decisions with incomplete data. In fact, 15 seconds can be more powerful

Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations page 5

How to Make Your Case in 30 Seconds or Less

Know the audience. “The worst pitches come

from those who don’t know my organization

Have Two—or Ten—Minutes? or how we operate. Pitching me on something

that just isn’t possible wastes both my time

and theirs,’ says Yancey. Before going to a

conference, he identifies and does research

on the individuals he wants to meet. Then he

Elevator pitches can also form the building blocks of longer presentations.

Milo O. Frank, author of How to Get Your Point Acrass in 30 Seconds or

Less, suggests looking at each of the points in an extended presentation as

individual 30-second messages. “Ouring the two, three, five, or ten minutes

that your speech lasts, you’tl have an opportunity te ask—and answer~ several tailors his elevator pitch to match his audience’s

provocative questions, paint more than one picture, use more than one requirements. “If people don’t hear a benefit for

personal anecdote or experience, The strategies that kept your listener alert them, they won't listen to you,” says Yancey.

and interested in your go-secand message will achieve the same effect ina

ionger speech." says Frank. Organize the pitch. “Some people are blessed

with charisma and persuasiveness,” says Dave

Power, a marketing partner at Charles River

Ventures, a venture capital firm in Waltham,

Mass. “We all aren’t that lucky, But you can

than 30 seconds. “The more succinct you are, still be very effective by focusing on what is

the more successful you will be,” says Dr. Alan meaningful. You have to organize the flow of

Weiss, president of Summit Consulting Groupin —_ information tomake it as easy as possible for the

East Greenwich, R.I. brain to digest.” Typically, elevator pitches start

with an introduction, move into a description

of the problem, outline potential benefits for

the listener, and conclude with a request for

permission to proceed to the next step in the

relationship.

The secret of strong elevator pitches consists of

grabbing the attention of listeners, convincing

them with the promise of mutual benefit, and

setting the stage for follow-up. Speak in terms

your audience can relate to. And communicate

with the passion that comes from knowing that Hook them from the opening. You have

this opportunity may never come again. How — to make an immediate connection with the

often do you see Warren Buffett on the street? audience. This connection signals that it’s worth

investing valuable time to hear what you have to

say. Weiss suggests starting with a provocative,

Know the goal. The goal of an elevator pitch contrarian, or counterintuitive statement that

is not to get funding, a job, or project sign-off. will rev pulses. One example: “Quality doesn’t

It’s to get approval to proceed to the next step, Matter.”

whether it’s accepting a phone call, a referral to

the right person, or a chance to send additional

information. Says Ken Yancey, the CEO of SCORE,

an SBA resource partner made up of retired and

active volunteers who help small businesses:

“Rarely are you closing a sale. Instead, you are

opening the door to the next step.’ Whatever

the goal is, follow through.

Key tips include;

Plug into the connection. Once you have

the attention of your audience, deliver your

message. Clarity is more powerful than jargon.

Use analogies the audience can relate to. Power

once had to explain a new technology called

“strong authentication” He held up an ATM

card. “Every time you use this card with a PIN

code, you are using strong authentication,” he

Know the subject. Do you know yourtopicwell said. The audience instantly understood that

enough to describe it in a single sentence? It’s strong authentication involved multiple levels

harder than it sounds. As Mark Twain pointed of security. Personalize your message by relating

out, “I didn’t have time to write you a short your solution to audience needs. Emotional

letter, so I wrote you a long one.” Knowing your appeals are also powerful.

subject well also gives you the ability to stand

out from others who might be doing something

similar. The issue, as always, is less what you do,

and more what you can do for somebody. “I’ma

real estate agent” is not as powerful as saying “I

ama real estate agent who specializes in helping

first-time buyers like you buy great homes in

this town.”

Presentation matters. It’s natural to want

to speak at an auctioneer’s tempo. But rapid-

fire delivery rarely conveys confidence and

command. In fact, a timely pause is an effective

attention-getter. “It gives emphasis to what

you're saying. It gives you time to think. It gives

your listener an opportunity to hear, absorb, and

retain what you’re saying,” writes Frank.

page & www.hbrorg

How to Make Your Case in 30 Seconds or Less

Incorporate feedback. Use video to evaluate

your own performance. Give the pitch to

someone unfamiliar with your project. If she

gets lost in jargon or fails to see the potential

benefit, chances are that your target audience

will stumble, too.

The benefits of elevator pitches extend beyond

persuading your audience. They can help focus

your thinking and writing. They can ultimately

increase your productivity, allowing you to

communicate your message to more people.

Employees shouldn’t stumble when asked,

“what does your company do?” or “how can we

help?” An effective elevator pitch can outline

win-win objectives, and establish a launch pad

for a deeper relationship—converting a chance

meeting into an opportunity.

‘This article originally appeared in Harvard Management

Communication Letter (product #Co201f). To order,

visit hbr.org.

Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations page 7

page 8

HARVARD MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATION LETTER

Coping with Stagefright

by John Daly and Isa Engleberg