SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Public Speaking Techniques
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for managing self-consciousness and anxiety during a presentation, such as shifting attention to the audience, relabeling physical symptoms, and using nervous energy effectively.
KEYWORDS: public speaking, self-consciousness, anxiety management, audience engagement, positive framing
---

Try it and you will see why. When you start

talking, yow’ll notice your facial expressions,

your hair, and your gestures, And, you'll think

little about your presentation.

What should you do when you feel self-

conscious during a presentation? Talk to

individual listeners. Pick out a person. Tell

yourself that you are going to talk right at him

until he begins to smile. Smile and you'll find

that he’ll probably smile back. Then, move to

another audience member and think, “I’m going

to talk directly to this person until she nods her

head.” As you talk, start nodding your head and

watch as she reciprocates. What you are doing is

shifting your attention away from yourself and

onto the audience.

Relabel your physical

symptoms positively

Much like an athlete getting ready for a big

game, your body gets “up” when you make a

speech: your heart beats faster, your palms get

sweaty, your legs seem a little wobbly, When

experiencing these feelings, some people think,

“tm scared.” Other people say to themselves,

“rm_ excited.” Physiologically, there is little

difference between fear and excitement. The

real difference lies in what you call it.

Think of something adventurous you do—riding

a roller coaster, scuba diving, a bicycle race.

Whatare your feelings at the start? Many of these

physiological reactions are no different from the

ones you have when you start a presentation,

The difference is that you call these activities

fun while labeling presentations scary. Same

physiology, different labels. So next time you

start a speech, label the experience positively.

Labeling is only the first step. People who have

a great deal of stagefright often talk themselves

into being nervous: “This is going to be awful...

Why am I up here?...J’m going to make a fool

of myself...People are going to walk out...What

if they hate me?” When you talk this way, you

may begin to believe it. Experienced speakers

convince themselves that they'll do a great job:

“Fm going to be effective...This is exciting...What

an opportunity... know my stuffand Iam going

to convince this audience.”

page 10

Use the energy you experience—don’t be used

by it. Before your presentation, walk around if

you can, take some deep breaths, stretch. When

you start your presentation, move, use gestures.

Let your nervous energy animate your speech.

Avoid rigid rules

People with stagefright often have very rigid

rules about what makes a good presentation.

One computer executive who often experienced

stagefright told us that “every good speech starts

with a joke.” An anxious scientist believed that

“all speeches should have three main points.” A

VPrelated that “every presentation mustinclude

colorgraphics.” These speakers dearly loved their

tules about speaking. Consequently, they were

haunted by them. In truth, none of them are

mandatory rules of good speaking. Is it possible

to give an excellent presentation without any

jokes? Sure. Do all excellent presentations have

three major points? Of course not. And many

outstanding briefings have no graphics at all.

Here's something else to think about: Most

people are more comfortable answering

questions in Q&A sessions than they are giving

speeches, You’d think it would be the opposite.

Presentations are prepared in advance. But it

is difficult to prepare for every question: you

think “on your feet” when answering questions.

Sounds as though questions should be more

nerve-wracking. But not so for most speakers.

Why? Because people have far fewer rigid rules

about question-answer sessions, On the other

hand, almost everyone has strong rules about

speeches. Be flexible. Drop the rigid rules!

Think before you speak

Learn some simple ways to manage your anxiety.

Think before you make a presentation so you

can avoid or control what makes you nervous.

For example, what if your hands shake when

you speak? Place your hands on the lectern. Or

suppose the notes you hold rattle as you speak?

Why not put your notes on a clipboard? If you

are so nervous that the clipboard shakes, lay the

notes on a table or lectern. What if you blush

when nervous? The blushing starts at your chest

and slowly works up your neck, Why not wear a

scarf or turtleneck that hides the blushing?

www. hbrorg

Coping with Stagefright

You don’t look that nervous

Has this happened to you? You finish a

presentation and people come up and

congratulate you. While you thank them for

the compliments, you’re thinking, “They're

just being nice. They really think I did a

lousy job. They could see | was shaking and

sweating.” Research tells us you're probably

wrong: speakers are often inaccurate in their

assessments of how nervous they appear. But

these inaccurate perceptions feed stagefright.

When you think you look anxious, you feel more

apprehensive. And the cycle continues until it

detrimentally affects your performance.

Reducing stagefright is not easy. It requires

conscientious work on your part. You'll have to

try the techniques we've described in front of

real audiences. But, if you are well prepared and

willing to discard your misconceptions about

speaking, you can reduce and maybe even

conquer your stagefright. And you will gain the

flexibility and confidence to transform a fearful

ordeal into an invigorating and successful

experience.

‘This article originally appeared in Harvard

Management Communication Letter (product

#C9906A), ‘To order, visit hbr.org,

Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations

page

page 12

HARVARD MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATION LETTER

Presentations 101

by John Clayton

John Clayton is a writer and teacher at Rocky Mountain College in Billings, Montana.

inexperienced presenters make two kinds of mistakes: the intelligent kind that all of us

must work through, and the kind that is so obvious you just shake your head in disbelief.

Let's deal with the obvious ones first:

«Reading from a script. There’s no faster way to lose your audience's attention. Instead, look

up and establish a personal connection with the audience,

«Hiding at the back of the room or behind a podium. Let the audience see you and your

body language.