SOURCE: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Corporate Learning and Improvement
SUMMARY: This article discusses how companies can improve their after-action review (AAR) process to enhance future performance, by learning from the U.S. Army's standing enemy brigade.
KEYWORDS: after-action reviews, organizational learning, continuous improvement, U.S. Army, corporate learning
---

[Document: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf]

www.hbrreprints.org

After-action reviews identify Learning in the Thick

past mistakes but rarely

enhance future performance. of It

Companies wanting to fully

exploit this tool should look to

its master: the U.S. Army’s

standing enemy brigade,

by Marilyn Darling, Charles Parry, and

where soldiers learn and

Joseph Moore

improve even in the midst of

battle.

Included with this full-text Harvard Business Review article:

1 Article Summary

The Idea in Brief—the core idea

The Idea in Practice—putting the idea to work

2 Learning in the Thick of It

10 Further Reading

A list of related materials, with annotations to guide further

exploration of the article’s ideas and applications

Reprint R0507G

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Learning in the Thick of It

The Idea in Brief The Idea in Practice

Like many managers, you probably con- To improve your AAR process: meetings—monthly or quarterly—may be

duct after-action reviews (AARs) to extract sufficient to identify and correct emerging

Build your AAR regimen slowly

lessons from key projects and apply them problems.

Rather than applying the AAR process across

to others. But in most companies, AARs

the board, begin using it selectively—on Focus on your own team’s learning

don’t fulfill their promise: Scrapped

projects where the payoff is greatest and lead- Lessons must first and foremost benefit your

projects, poor investments, and failed safety

ers have committed to working through sev- team, so resist any urge to create an AAR doc-

measures repeat themselves—while

eral AAR cycles. ument specifically for some other corporate

hoped-for gains rarely materialize. One

use. Focus team members on improving

manufacturing executive, reading an AAR Focus on efforts critical to your team’s mission,

their own learning and, as a result, their own

report for a failed project that had stum- so people will be motivated to participate.

performance.

bled twice before, realized with horror that

Conduct a before-action review (BAR)

the team was “discovering” the same mis- Your people may generate a lesson during the

Before embarking on an important project,

takes all over again. AAR process, but they won’t have learned the

answer these questions:

lesson until they’ve changed their behavior. It

How to transform your AARs from diag-

• “What are our intended results and met- takes multiple iterations to produce solutions

noses of past failure into aids for future suc-

rics?” Does your team want to improve that stand up under any conditions.

cess? Realize that looking for lessons isn’t

product quality? Accelerate its response to

the same as learning them. View the AAR as

emergencies? Improve sales win/loss ratio?

an ongoing learning process—rather than

a one-time meeting, report, or postmor- • “What challenges do we anticipate?” Do

tem. Set the stage for AARs with rigorous you expect shortages of certain resources?

before-action planning—articulating your A turn in customers’ preferences?

intended results, anticipated challenges,

• “What have we or others learned from

and lessons from previous similar situations.

similar projects?” Be candid about past fail-

Conduct mini-AARs after each project mile-

ures—focusing on improving performance,

stone—holding everyone accountable for

not placing blame.

applying key lessons quickly in the next

project phase. • “What will enable us to succeed this time?”

What practices helped you succeed in earlier

Companies that master this process gain—

efforts? What worked before that should be

and sustain—competitive advantage. They

tested under different circumstances?

avoid repeating the kinds of errors that

gnaw away at stakeholder value. And in- Responses to these questions align team

stead of merely fixing problems, they adapt members’ objectives and set the stage for ef-

more rapidly and effectively than rivals to fective AARs as your project unfolds.

challenges no one even imagined.

Conduct mini-BARs and AARs

Break big projects into smaller chunks, book-

ended by short BAR and AAR meetings con-

ducted in task-focused groups. You’ll establish

feedback loops that maximize project perfor-

mance and foster an ongoing learning culture.

But tailor your process to fit each project and

project phase. For example, during periods of

intense activity, use brief daily AAR meetings

to help teams coordinate and improve the

next day’s work. At other times, less frequent

page 1

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

.DEVRESER

STHGIR

LLA

.NOITAROPROC

GNIHSILBUP

LOOHCS

SSENISUB

DRAVRAH

5002

©

THGIRYPOC

After-action reviews identify past mistakes but rarely enhance future

performance. Companies wanting to fully exploit this tool should look

to its master: the U.S. Army’s standing enemy brigade, where soldiers

learn and improve even in the midst of battle.

Learning in the Thick

of It

by Marilyn Darling, Charles Parry, and

Joseph Moore

Imagine an organization that confronts con- called Blue Force, or BLUFOR, for the duration

stantly changing competitors. That is always of the exercise—is numerically and technologi-

smaller and less well-equipped than its oppo- cally superior. It possesses more dedicated re-

nents. That routinely cuts its manpower and sources and better, more rapidly available data.

resources. That turns over a third of its leaders It is made up of experienced soldiers. And it

every year. And that still manages to win com- knows just what to expect, because OPFOR

petition after competition after competition. shares its methods from previous campaigns

The U.S. Army’s Opposing Force (commonly with BLUFOR’s commanders. In short, each of

known as OPFOR), a 2,500-member brigade these very capable BLUFOR brigades is given

whose job is to help prepare soldiers for combat, practically every edge. Yet OPFOR almost al-

is just such an organization. Created to be the ways wins.

meanest, toughest foe troops will ever face, Underlying OPFOR’s consistent success is

OPFOR engages units-in-training in a variety of the way it uses the after-action review (AAR), a

mock campaigns under a wide range of condi- method for extracting lessons from one event