SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Legal Defense Presentation
SUMMARY: A lawyer successfully argues that a seemingly impossible crime was possible, capturing the audience's attention before delivering a persuasive speech.
KEYWORDS: legal defense, presentation strategy, audience engagement
---

compromising situation in a Volkswagen. Now,

everyone in France was interested in the case

because it had to do with such a small car. The

defense lawyer argued it was impossible to do

what the couple had been accused of doing ina

Volkswagen. The judge said he didn’t knowif this

was true or not, so he appointed a commission

to study it. It took them six months to render

their verdict, and they said ‘it was possible but

very difficult’” Confident that he had captured

his audience’s attention, Buchwald went on to

deliver his speech.

4. Craft the ending. You're almost done. Now

you need to create an ending for the speech that

is not a summary—that’s boring~but rather

gives the audience something to do with the

information you've imparted. To return to

Kennedy, he asked his listeners to join the Peace

Corps or work on behalf of freedom around the

world in the famous phrase, “Ask not what your

country can do for you, but what you can do for

your country.” Few of us get the chance to ask

our audiences to do something that exciting,

but we do owe them our best efforts toward real

action, because audiences tend to remember

what comes last in a presentation. The point

is to match the need that the audience has to

act on its new knowledge with some specific

suggestions about what to do. The device also

helps cement the memory of what the speech

was about. Mere summaries cause listeners to

tune out.

5. Put it all together and eliminate the

extraneous. Now you’re ready to take the

pieces and assemble them into a compelling

whole. Put the opener, the question section, the

answersection, and the ending together, and use

the elevator speech to eliminate everything that

doesn’t pertain to the topic. Most presentations

try to cover too much rather than too little, and

end up boring and overwhelming listeners with

extraneous material. Be ruthless. No one ever

protested because a presentation ended a little

early.

6. Rehearse, preferably in the room. Nothing

beatsa dress rehearsal. You'll find out where the

holes are, and what doesn’t make sense. Invite a

few colleagues to listen if the presentation is an

important one, so that you can get the sense of

what it’s like to perform in front of an audience.

page 3

The Basic Presentation Checklist

Ask them not to interrupt, but rather save their

questions and comments until you’re done, so

that you can get a sense of timing and pacing.

7. Check the location and the technology.

Just before the event, get into the room where

the talk will be held if you haven’t already, and

see how things look from the speaker's stand,

Test your technology out, and ask someone to

stand in the back of the room to see how well

you can be heard. If there is bright lighting, get

a feel for how that affects your ability to see

your notes. The more familiar you are with the

surroundings, the less you will be thrown off

stride when the actual moment comes,

8. When the time comes, be ready. Shortly

before you start, check your appearance in a

mirror. If you’re the nervous type, spend the

time until you’re “on” giving yourself a pep talk.

Tell yourself that you’ve prepared thoroughly,

that the material is good, and that the audience

wants you to succeed. Re-label physical

symptoms of nervousness, which everyone has,

as the adrenaline necessary to help you succeed

with sufficient energy. Don’t allow yourself to

get trapped in the vicious cycle of thinking, “I’m

nervous because I’m going to fail because ’m

nervous...” This thought progression is self-

fulfilling and self-defeating. Instead, look at the

audience face by face, and tell yourself, “that

person looks friendly. | could talk to her. That

one reminds me of my uncle, and he always

liked me.” When the moment finally arrives,

take a deep breath, smile, and have fun.

This article originally appeared in Harvard

Management Communication Letter (product

#CO0108B). To order, visit hbr.org.

page 4

www. hbrorg

HARVARD MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATION LETTER

How to Make Your Case

in 30 Seconds or Less

An elevator pitch can help capture an investor’s

attention, open the door to a job, or win vital

support for a new project.

by Nick Wreden

Nick Wreden is the author of Fusion Branding: Strategic Branding for the Customer

Economy. He can be reached at hmcl@hbsp.harvard.edu.

In 1994, Barnett Helzberg, Jr. was walking by The Plaza Hotel in New York City when he heard a

woman hail Warren Buffett. Helzberg approached the legendary investor and said, “Hi, Mr. Buffett.

I’m a shareholder in Berkshire Hathaway and a great admirer of yours. I believe that my company

matches your criteria for investment.”

“Send me more details,” Buffett replied. A year later, Helzberg sold his chain of 143 diamond stores to

Buffett.

Helzberg’s story is a classic example of a powerful elevator pitch. An elevator pitch gets its name from

the 30-second opportunity to tell—and sell—your story during a three- or four-story elevator ride.

The 30-second parameter is based on the typical attention span, according to the book How to Get

Your Point Across in 30 Seconds or Less (Pocket Books, 1990) by Milo O. Frank. It’s one reason why the

standard commercial or television “sound bite” lasts 30 seconds.

While elevator pitches are often associated with funding requests, they can be valuable every day. Job

interviews, networking events, public relations opportunities, presentations to executives, and sales

all demand the ability to successfully deliver a quick and concise explanation of your case.

A30-second elevator speech quickly demonstrates that you know your business and can communicate

it effectively. Yes, a lot of important facts may be left out, but today everyone is skilled at judging

relevancy and making decisions with incomplete data. In fact, 15 seconds can be more powerful

Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations page 5