SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Presentation Effectiveness
SUMMARY: This text discusses how workshops can help executives become more expressive and confident in their presentations, which can have a transformative impact on their communication and presence.
KEYWORDS: presentation skills, self-expression, public speaking, communication training, business workshops
---

presentation. We always come back and apply

the exercise to a business situation,

LUBAR: We worked with one executive who was

completely buttoned up. No facial expression,

no physical energy—just dead, and it was

really blocking his progress at work. The first

evening of the workshop we ended later than

planned, During the break, he called home to

say goodnight to his little daughters, ages six

and eight, and he became a completely different

person. His face and voice came to life. But after

the break he reverted to his other self. So we

asked him to do the next exercise as if he were

addressing a group of six- and eight-year-olds

at a birthday party. And it was like night and

day. We encouraged him to go further with it, to

exaggerate and have fun with it, and we stopped

him a few times to ask if it was believable. Then

www. hbrorg

we worked on how to integrate that energy. By

the end of the program, every time he spoke—

whether one-on-one, in a group situation, or

a presentation—he began integrating these

two sides of his personality into one. It was

transformational.

HALPERN; In the process of working through

these exercises, people often realize that their

presence—who they are~is far bigger than they

thought. And it expands their sense of self and

their comfort with taking up more space,

It sounds like you have people doing things

they haven’t done for years—maybe since

they were kids. It must be enormously

liberating.

LUBAR: As children we tend to be much more

expansive. But over time we get a lot of cultural

and corporate messages that say we have to

keep a lid on it and be serious. We give people

permission to open the lid and use more of

Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations

their expressive selves. This gives them a

wonderful sense of freedom and power—and

it can be very exhilarating. | think that’s why

they often feel such a sense of joy coming out

of the workshops. They’ve released something

in themselves. Then the question becomes how

to get comfortable with that and how much to

bring into a business situation. And it’s usually

far more than they initially thought.

HALPERN: One manager we worked with early

on said something that really inspired us. He

said that before he took our workshop, he felt

that expressing himself fully was an act of self-

indulgence. After the workshop, he realized that

expressing himself fully was an act of generosity.

That has always stayed with us.

‘This article originally appeared in Harvard Management

Communication Letter (product #C9905C). To order,

visit hbrorg.

page 31

page 32

HARVARD MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATION LETTER

Are Your Presentations

Inspiring?

One of the great speeches of history

offers some surprising lessons

Has one of your speeches ever caused your listeners to riot in the streets for three days?

That was the result of President John F. Kennedy's June 26, 1963 address to the citizens of West Berlin.

More than a million people lined the Rudolf Wilde Platz in the divided city to hear the young American

president who had been so severely tested on his resistance to Communism by the Bay of Pigs fiasco,

the Cuban Missile Crisis, and the Berlin Wall itself. It may well have been the largest gathering of its

kind in human history. The West Berliners’ need for reassurance was great; they felt isolated by the

newly-built wall.

Within a few minutes, speaking through an interpreter, Kennedy created a delirium of enthusiasm in

his listeners, prompting them to demonstrate for three days until the police and military were able to

reestablish control,

What was the secret of Kennedy’s power? How did he connect so strongly with his audience? What

are the lessons of this short, simple, and yet extraordinary speech? Can they be applied to the typical

business presentation?

Looking at Kennedy’s speech in some detail yields six lessons that can help make your presentations,

if not riot inducing, at least more memorable than the average business talk.

1. Write it yourself. Kennedy wrote the short speech himself and insisted on delivering it over the

objections of the military command. The generals worried that the speech would cause the nervous

citizens of Berlin to riot—as, in fact, they did. But the point is that Kennedy avoided the bureaucratic

and lengthy in his talk partly because he didn’t have the time to create anything wordier. He wrote the

www. bbe org

Are Your Presentations Inspiring?

Many

presentations are

long-winded and

simplemindeds

few manage to

say the right thing

at the right time

in the fewest

possible words.

speech in haste over the few days prior to the

event, on his way to Berlin. Lacking the usual

governmental resources to help him, he was

forced to keep it simple.

Thespeech also reflected his beliefs more closely

than a speech penned by his speechwriters ever

couldhave. And that’s the firstlesson forbusiness

speakers. Rather than having your staff prepare

some notes for what they think you should say,

take the time to figure out the main points for

yourself, Then get your researchers to fill in any

missing detail. That way the presentation is

more likely to reflect your beliefs and thinking.

2. Keep it simple and true. This speech belongs

to a select group of memorable speeches that

clockinat 10 minutes or less and stick tooneclear

theme, It is the coincidence of integrity, brevity,

and simplicity with an important occasion that

makes for golden rhetoric. Many presentations

are long-winded and simpleminded; few

manage to say the right thing at the right

time in the fewest possible words, Lincoln’s

Gettysburg Address, Martin Luther King, Jr’s

“{ have a dream” speech, and even the Sermon

on the Mount all combine these ingredients

unforgettably. Reagan's elegy on the subject of

the Challenger disaster comes close; time will be

the judge of that speech’s staying power. In each

case, the absolute clarity and conviction of the