SOURCE: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Military Training and Simulations
SUMMARY: The U.S. Army's Opposing Force (OPFOR) is a highly capable military training organization that consistently defeats its training opponents through the effective use of after-action reviews.
KEYWORDS: military training, simulations, after-action review, OPFOR, learning from experience
---

[Document: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf]

The U.S. Army’s Opposing Force (commonly with BLUFOR’s commanders. In short, each of

known as OPFOR), a 2,500-member brigade these very capable BLUFOR brigades is given

whose job is to help prepare soldiers for combat, practically every edge. Yet OPFOR almost al-

is just such an organization. Created to be the ways wins.

meanest, toughest foe troops will ever face, Underlying OPFOR’s consistent success is

OPFOR engages units-in-training in a variety of the way it uses the after-action review (AAR), a

mock campaigns under a wide range of condi- method for extracting lessons from one event

tions. Every month, a fresh brigade of more or project and applying them to others. The

than 4,000 soldiers takes on this standing en- AAR, which has evolved over the past two de-

emy, which, depending on the scenario, may cades, originated at OPFOR’s parent organiza-

play the role of a hostile army or insurgents, tion, the National Training Center (NTC). AAR

paramilitary units, or terrorists. The two sides meetings became a popular business tool after

battle on foot, in tanks, and in helicopters dodg- Shell Oil began experimenting with them in

ing artillery, land mines, and chemical weapons. 1998 at the suggestion of board member Gor-

Stationed on a vast, isolated stretch of Cali- don Sullivan, a retired general. Teams at such

fornia desert, OPFOR has the home-court ad- companies as Colgate-Palmolive, DTE Energy,

vantage. But the force that’s being trained— Harley-Davidson, and J.M. Huber use these re-

harvard business review • july–august 2005 page 2

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

.DEVRESER

STHGIR

LLA

.NOITAROPROC

GNIHSILBUP

LOOHCS

SSENISUB

DRAVRAH

5002

©

THGIRYPOC

Learning in the Thick of It

views to identify both best practices (which pany told us about an after-action review for a

they want to spread) and mistakes (which they failed project that had already broken down

don’t want to repeat). twice before. Having read reports from the ear-

Most corporate AARs, however, are faint lier attempts’ AARs—which consisted prima-

echoes of the rigorous reviews OPFOR per- rily of one-on-one interviews—she realized

forms. It is simply too easy for companies to with horror after several grueling hours that

turn the process into a pro forma wrap-up. All the team was “discovering” the same mistakes

too often, scrapped projects, poor investments, all over again.

and failed safety measures end up repeating A somewhat different problem cropped up

themselves. Efficient shortcuts, smart solu- at a telecom company we visited. A team of

tions, and sound strategies don’t. project managers there conducted rigorous

For companies that want to transform their milestone reviews and wrap-up AAR meetings

AARs from postmortems of past failure into on each of its projects, identifying problems

aids for future success, there is no better and creating technical fixes to avoid them in

teacher than the technique’s master practitio- future initiatives. But it made no effort to

ner. OPFOR treats every action as an opportu- apply what it was learning to actions and deci-

nity for learning—about what to do but also, sions taken on its current projects. After sev-

more important, about how to think. Instead eral months, the team had so overwhelmed

of producing static “knowledge assets” to file the system with new steps and checks that the

away in a management report or repository, process itself began causing delays. Rather

OPFOR’s AARs generate raw material that the than improving learning and performance, the

brigade feeds back into the execution cycle. AARs were reducing the team’s ability to solve

And while OPFOR’s reviews extract numerous its problems.

lessons, the group does not consider a lesson to We also studied a public agency that was

be truly learned until it is successfully applied running dozens of similar projects simulta-

and validated. neously. At the end of each project, team lead-

The battlefield of troops, tanks, and tear gas ers were asked to complete a lessons-learned

is very different from the battlefield of prod- questionnaire about the methods they would

ucts, prices, and profits. But companies that or would not use again; what training the team

adapt OPFOR’s principles to their own prac- had needed; how well members communi-

tices will be able to integrate leadership, learn- cated; and whether the planning had been ef-

ing, and execution to gain rapid and sustained fective. But the projects ran for years, and

competitive advantage. memory is less reliable than observation. Con-

sequently, the responses of the few leaders

Why Companies Don’t Learn who bothered to fill out the forms were often

An appreciation of what OPFOR does right be- sweepingly positive—and utterly useless.

gins with an understanding of what businesses Those failures and many more like them

do wrong. To see why even organizations that stem from three common misconceptions

focus on learning often repeat mistakes, we about the nature of an AAR: that it is a meet-

analyzed the AAR and similar “lessons ing, that it is a report, or that it is a postmor-

learned” processes at more than a dozen cor- tem. In fact, an AAR should be more verb than

porations, nonprofits, and government agen- noun—a living, pervasive process that explic-

cies. The fundamentals are essentially the itly connects past experience with future ac-

Marilyn Darling (mdarling@signet- same at each: Following a project or event, tion. That is the AAR as it was conceived back

consulting.com), Charles Parry team members gather to share insights and in 1981 to help Army leaders adapt quickly in

(cparry@signetconsulting.com), and identify mistakes and successes. Their conclu- the dynamic, unpredictable situations they

retired Colonel Joseph Moore sions are expected to flow—by formal or infor- were sure to face. And that is the AAR as

(jmoore@signetconsulting.com) are re- mal channels—to other teams and eventually OPFOR practices it every day.

searchers and consultants with Boston- coalesce into best practices and global stan-

based Signet Consulting Group. Moore dards. More than a Meeting