SOURCE: HBR_Showrooming at Best Buy.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Strategies to Counter Showrooming
SUMMARY: Retailers responded to showrooming by building their own apps, offering exclusive products, and expanding loyalty programs and price matching.
KEYWORDS: showrooming, retail apps, exclusive products, loyalty programs, price matching
---

Some stores chose to fight fire with fire by building their own apps or partnering with third-party

app companies. Others invested in their store selection by offering exclusive products not sold online.

Others hoped to entice customers back into stores by expanding their loyalty programs and discounts

for repeat shopping. One major retailer even waged a war directly against online retailers by

matching their prices.

Store-owned and third-party apps

Partnerships between retailers and third-party app developers took many shapes. Shopkick’s

points system, which encouraged in-store shopping by awarding points for “checking in” inside

physical stores, provided a way for traditional retailers to draw in shoppers. In 2012, customers spent

an average of three hours a month using the app.23 “Our Shopkick customers buy twice as often as a

non-Shopkick user, and have helped increase in-store traffic,” said Fred Grover, executive vice

president of clothing retailer American Eagle.24

The development of this and similar apps led to an increase in promotional and coupon-based

spending by both retailers and manufacturers. The number of retail digital-coupon promotions

increased 50% between 2011 and 2012. Once downloaded and launched on a mobile phone, an app

could deliver these coupons and offers to a shopper in a variety of ways: the shopper could take a

picture of a product or scan its barcode, and the app would deliver related discounts. An app could

also evaluate the purchase history of a shopper to deliver tailored discounts for items they were likely

to want or need. Through geofencing, the store could trigger additional coupons for other products in

the store or at neighboring retailers.

These apps also made for the easy collection of real-time data on a variety of customers’ moves

and choices, allowing retailers to draw conclusions about where customers might hesitate over a

price or an option, and prompt them to buy with extra discounts and offers. In addition, by scanning

the data of items already placed in a shopping cart, an app could make further item

recommendations or direct customers toward other departments of the store. Macy’s, Old Navy, J.C.

Penney, Target, Crate & Barrel, and Best Buy all partnered with third-party apps.

Assortment changes

Some traditional retailers further responded to showrooming by adjusting their in-store product

assortments. Such shifts closely reflected the types of products that were the most susceptible to

showrooming, among them toys, clothes, and electronics. For example, Toys “R” Us began to carry

products that could only be purchased at its stores or on its own website. Target established

partnerships with clothing designers, including Missoni and Jason Wu, to develop exclusive products

sold only at Target.25 In early 2012, Target famously sent a letter to vendors asking for help in

thwarting showrooming through the creation of exclusive products. The letter leaked to the press and

the Wall Street Journal reported:

Last week, in an urgent letter to vendors, the Minneapolis-based chain suggested that

suppliers create special products that would set it apart from competitors and shield it

from the price comparisons that have become so easy for shoppers to perform on their

computers and smartphones. Where special products aren’t possible, Target asked the

suppliers to help it match rivals’ prices. It also said it might create a subscription service

that would give shoppers a discount on regularly purchased merchandise.26

4

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Showrooming at Best Buy 515-019

Some electronics retailers even took the extreme decision to diversify their product assortments

away from electronics and into other types of goods. Chicago-area retailer Abt Electronics began to

stock furniture, luggage, and exercise equipment, reducing its reliance on electronics.27

Pricing policy changes

For those retailers not willing to or incapable of demanding exclusive products, the alternative

was to deal with the glaring price differences. Showrooming had a major influence on pricing policy

since the lower prices of online retailers were becoming apparent to customers. Table A shows

Amazon’s price difference (excluding sales tax, including shipping) compared to the website prices of

Wal-Mart and Target (including shipping), and to the in-store prices of Wal-Mart and Best Buy.

Table A Amazon’s Price Difference

Online Prices, All Products (%) In-store Prices, Consumer Electronics (%)

Against Wal-Mart.com - 9% Against Wal-Mart - 11%

Against Target.com - 14% Against Best Buy - 8%

Note: In the left column, sales tax is excluded for Amazon but not for retailers with a physical presence. The law changed

this in 2013-4. In the right column, sales tax is included for both Amazon and physical retailers.

Source: Anne Zimmerman, “Can Retailers Halt ‘Showrooming’?” The Wall Street Journal, April 11, 2012.

Retailers competing for shrinking shopping budgets, especially in the high-stakes holiday season,

were forced to lower their prices to compete with online prices in what many termed a “race to the

bottom.” Yet, with the overhead costs associated with maintaining a physical store, the effort to price-

match online retailers could be hazardous. Traditional big-box retailers mounted their first pricing

attacks against online retailers in 2009. Wal-Mart focused on books, the product on which Amazon

had built its customer base, and dropped the price of its most popular books below $10. Its CEO

commented on the tactic: “If there’s going to be a ‘Wal-Mart of the Web,’ it’s going to be

Walmart.com.”28

A more drastic means for retailers to compete against low prices online was to encourage

manufacturers to adopt a minimum advertised price (MAP) policy.29 Through MAP, a manufacturer

of consumer durables would unilaterally force all its authorized resellers to abide to a minimum price

for advertising the manufacturer’s products in any media. MAP policies typically were introduced

when the manufacturer provided cooperative advertising dollars for the retailer to spend on TV,

print and other media, to advertise the manufacturer’s products. In this case, retailers needed to

respect the MAP and not advertise below a certain price. These policies were lawful if they did not