SOURCE: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Knowledge Management
SUMMARY: The U.S. Army uses formal knowledge systems and informal knowledge sharing to capture and disseminate lessons learned from its training operations.
KEYWORDS: Organizational Knowledge, Doctrine and Tactics, Knowledge Sharing, Lessons Learned, U.S. Army
---

[Document: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf]

tion. The U.S. Army uses formal knowledge

Doctrine and Tactics systems to capture and disseminate important

lessons to large, dispersed audiences, and the

The lessons produced and validated by inform the Army’s other class of organi- National Training Center contributes indi-

the U.S. Army’s Opposing Force (OPFOR) zational knowledge: doctrine. Doctrine— rectly to those. (See the sidebar “Doctrine and

and the units it trains at the National which rarely changes and is shared by the Tactics.”) Informal knowledge sharing among

Training Center (NTC) in Fort Irwin, Cali- entire Army—establishes performance peers, however, is very common. OPFOR’s

fornia, contribute to the Army’s two standards for the kinds of actions and leaders, for example, use e-mail and the Inter-

classes of organizational knowledge. One conditions military units commonly face. net to stay in touch with leaders on combat

class, known as Tactics, Techniques, and For example, many of the steps in the duty. The OPFOR team shares freshly hatched

Procedures (TTP), focuses on how to per- doctrine for a brigade-level attack (such insights and tactics with officers in Afghanistan

form specific tasks under specific condi- as planning for mobility, survivability, and Iraq; those officers, in turn, describe new

tions. It is the responsibility of each unit and air defense) began life as lessons and unexpected situations cropping up in real

leader to build her own library of TTP by from the NTC and other Army training battles. And, of course, OPFOR’s leaders don’t

learning from other leaders as well as by centers. stay out in the Mojave Desert forever. Every

capturing good ideas from her subordi- The difference between doctrine and year as part of the Army’s regular rotation,

nates. Two unit leaders in the same bri- TTP is a useful one for businesses, some one-third move to other units, which they seed

gade may need to employ different TTP of which draw few distinctions among with OPFOR-spawned thinking. Departing

to address different conditions. the types of knowledge employees gener- leaders leave behind “continuity folders” full of

Sufficiently weighty, widely applicable, ate and about how widely diverse lessons lessons and AAR notes for their successors.

and rigorously tested TTP may ultimately should be applied and disseminated. In an environment where conditions change

harvard business review • july–august 2005 page 8

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Learning in the Thick of It

Instead of producing constantly, knowledge is always a work in project will likely require different levels of

progress. So creating, collecting, and sharing preparation, execution, and review. However,

static “knowledge assets”

knowledge are the responsibility of the peo- we have distilled some best practices from the

to file away in a ple who can apply it. Knowledge is not a staff few companies we studied that use AARs well.

function. For example, leaders should phase in an AAR

management report or

regimen, beginning with the most important

The Corporate Version and complex work their business units per-

repository, OPFOR’s

It would be impractical for companies to form. Teams should commit to holding short

AARs generate raw adopt OPFOR’s processes in their entirety. BAR and AAR meetings as they go, keeping

Still, many would benefit from making their things simple at first and developing the pro-

material that the brigade

own after-action reviews more like OPFOR’s. cess slowly—adding rehearsals, knowledge-

feeds back into the The business landscape, after all, is competi- sharing activities and systems, richer metrics,

tive, protean, and often dangerous. An organi- and other features dictated by the particular

execution cycle.

zation that doesn’t merely extract lessons from practice.

experience but actually learns them can adapt While companies will differ on the specifics

more quickly and effectively than its rivals. they adopt, four fundamentals of the OPFOR

And it is less likely to repeat the kinds of errors process are mandatory. Lessons must first and

that gnaw away at stakeholder value. foremost benefit the team that extracts them.

Most of the practices we’ve described can be The AAR process must start at the beginning

customized for corporate environments. Sim- of the activity. Lessons must link explicitly to

pler forms of operational orders and brief future actions. And leaders must hold every-

backs, for example, can ensure that a project is one, especially themselves, accountable for

seen the same way by everyone on the team learning.

and that each member understands his or her By creating tight feedback cycles between

role in it. A corporate version, called a before- thinking and action, AARs build an organiza-

action review (BAR), requires teams to answer tion’s ability to succeed in a variety of condi-

four questions before embarking on an impor- tions. Former BLUFOR brigades that are now

tant action: What are our intended results and deploying to the Middle East take with them

measures? What challenges can we antici- not just a set of lessons but also a refresher

pate? What have we or others learned from course on how to draw new lessons from situa-

similar situations? What will make us success- tions for which they did not train—situations

ful this time? The responses to those questions they may not even have imagined. In a fast-

align the team’s objectives and set the stage for changing environment, the capacity to learn

an effective AAR meeting following the action. lessons is more valuable than any individual

In addition, breaking projects into smaller lesson learned. That capacity is what compa-

chunks, bookended by short BAR and AAR nies can gain by studying OPFOR.

meetings conducted in task-focused groups, es-

tablishes feedback loops that can help a project Reprint R0507G

team maximize performance and develop a To order, see the next page

learning culture over time. or call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500

Every organization, every team, and every or go to www.hbrreprints.org

harvard business review • july–august 2005 page 9