SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Public Speaking Techniques
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for managing stage fright and effectively engaging an audience during a presentation.
KEYWORDS: public speaking, audience engagement, stage fright, presentation skills, nonverbal communication
---

speakers spend the first few minutes of a

presentation working out the worst of their

nerves. It’s something that audiences expect,

and they’re willing to cut the presenter some

slack at the opening. An audience expects a

speaker to warm to her task, however, and to

begin to relax a few minutes into the speech.

If the speaker remains nervous, the audience

will begin to find that nervousness a barrier to

comprehension of the rest of the speech, and to

trust. Unfortunately, that means that a speaker

only has at most the first five minutes of a

speech to get over her stage fright. After that,

nervousness becomes a distinct liability.

The reason is that the audience is eager to decide

whether or not to trust a presenter, and so it

interprets the speaker’s behavior as meaningful

to the audience, even if the speaker is merely

struggling with nerves.

So it’s up to you to figure out how to reach a

plateau of relative comfort quickly. For some,

mental imagining—to counteract the doom

scenarios we all play out in our heads—seems to

help. For others, breathing and self-directed pep

talksare efficacious. Forall ofus, preparationand

practice are essential. If you’re tempted to wing

it—don’t. It may work some of the time, but it

won't always be enough, and there is no feeling

worse than that of losing an audience halfway

through a talk because you suddenly realize you

don’t really know what you're talking about.

2. It’s not what you do, it’s what they see.

Audiences interpret behavior as meaningful to

them. So, for example, if you’re feeling cold in

front ofan audience because the air conditioning

in the room is turned down too far, resist the

temptation to cross your arms. Audiences

will probably take this gesture to mean that

you're feeling defensive, even if they’re cold

themselves.

Spend some time thinking through the ways in

which your audience is likely to interpret your

standard repertoire of gestures. If you don’t

know what they are, get a close friend to tell

you—or arrange to have yourself videotaped.

Many people back away from an audience, for

example, if emotions threaten to become heated.

Someone will ask a strongly worded question,

say, and the speaker will retreat to the safety

of the podium. Audiences will almost always

interpret this gesture as a sign of unwillingness

to engage in the important issues, or even as

simple fear. So, if questioners turn up the heat

on you, don’t back down. Get in their personal

space, maintain your cool, and answer the

question,

3. Above all, remember the audience’s

need to connect with you. The easiest way

to get a reading on what another person is

really thinking—indeed the only way we're

truly comfortable with—is when that person is

having a one-on-one conversation with us. As a

speaker, you need to respect that need in each

individual member of your audience. But how

can you manage this feat when you're talking to

a hundred people—or a thousand?

You can’t, literally. But you can do the next best

thing. You can connect personally with a few

members of the audience by moving in close to

them—between four feet and two feet away

and allowing those members of the audience

to stand in proxy to the whole. Audiences are

willing to accept this second-best solution. What

they are not willing to accept is the sincerity

of someone who begins a speech behind the

podium and never leaves it to try to move closer

to them. If you are one of those speakers who

cart bear to leave the safety of the space behind

the podium, either get over your fears or leave

the speaking to someone else. In today’s casual

rhetorical atmosphere, traditional podium

speaking is simply no longer adequate.

Now, it’s not enough just to move randomly

toward various audience members as you’re

talking through your slides. Because you raise

the energy in the room and focus attention on

yourself when you move in close toan audience

member, you need to pick the right moment.

if you’re not saying something important then,

your kinesthetic message and your content will

be at odds. This sets up a battle between your

listeners’ conscious deciphering of the content

and their largely unconscious reading of your

motivations. Your listeners will begin to wonder

www. Abrorg

Connect with Your Audience

what’s really important—they may simply

interpret what you say while you're standing

close to them as the main points. If those aren’t

the main points, you'll confuse your listeners.

Remember the TV show Columbo? The rumpled

detective would wear down his suspect (almost

always the guilty party) by working his way

through a long list of mumbled and often

irrelevant questions. Finally, he would start to

move away, and the guilty party would breathe

asigh of relief and begin to relax. Then Columbo

would turn back and say something like, “One

more thing, What was the color of the tie you

were wearing that day?” Columbo was signaling

that his question was less important than it

really was by his kinesthetic distance from the

criminal, The result was that the criminal was

more likely to tell him the truth in an unguarded

moment.

There, the kinesthetic message and the content

are deliberately at variance because Columbo

wants to trick the truth out of the guilty party.

Speakers need to use the same wisdom about

Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations

kinesthetic messages but in a more positive

way. Rather than tricking your audience, make

your content and your actions cohere by moving

toward your listeners at key moments and away

from them when you want to signal a pause or

change of topic.

Good kinesthetic speaking means making your

content and your delivery consistent with one

another. Far too many business speakers lurk

behind podiums or wander around the public

space in front of an audience, wondering why

they can’t seem to connect with their listeners.