SOURCE: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Training and Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of learning and testing assumptions through After-Action Reviews (AARs) and small experiments in military training.
KEYWORDS: After-Action Review (AAR), Learning, Training, Military, Experimentation
---

[Document: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf]

if the unit had anticipated that equipment OPFOR’s AARs, by contrast, focus on im-

maintenance or logistics would be a challenge, proving a unit’s own learning and, as a result,

what resources (mines, wire, ammo, vehicles) its own performance. A unit may generate a

were functioning and available? lesson during the AAR process, but by OP-

The AAR meeting addresses four questions: FOR’s definition, it won’t have learned that les-

What were our intended results? What were son until its members have changed their be-

harvard business review • july–august 2005 page 5

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Learning in the Thick of It

havior in response. Furthermore, soldiers need tion from observation points to plan effective

to see that it actually works. OPFOR’s leaders artillery missions—in the dark, against a mov-

know most lessons that surface during the first ing target. The next challenge would be to test

go-round are incomplete or plain wrong, repre- their assumptions to see first, if they could lo-

senting what the unit thinks should work and cate and target infantry sooner; and second,

not what really does work. They understand what difference that ability would make to

that it takes multiple iterations to produce dy- them achieving their mission.

namic solutions that will stand up under any OPFOR’s need to test theories is another

conditions. reason the brigade conducts frequent brief

For example, in one fight against a small, AARs instead of one large wrap-up. The sooner

agile infantry unit, OPFOR had to protect a a unit identifies targeting infantry as a skill it

cave complex containing a large store of muni- must develop, the more opportunities it has to

tions. BLUFOR’s infantry chose the attack try out different assumptions and strategies

route least anticipated by OPFOR’s command- during a rotation and the less likely those les-

ers. Because scouts were slow to observe and sons are to grow stale. So units design numer-

communicate the change in BLUFOR’s move- ous small experiments—short cycles of “plan,

ments, OPFOR was unable to prevent an at- prepare, execute, AAR”—within longer cam-

tack that broke through its defense perimeter. paigns. That allows them to validate lessons for

OPFOR was forced to hastily reposition its re- their own use and to ensure that the lessons

serve and forward units. Much of its firepower they share with other teams are “complete”—

didn’t reach the crucial battle or arrived too meaning they can be applied in a variety of fu-

late to affect the outcome. ture situations. More important, soldiers see

OPFOR’s unit leaders knew they could ex- their performance improve as they apply those

tract many different lessons from this situation. lessons, which sustains the learning culture.

“To fight an agile infantry unit, we must locate Not all OPFOR experiments involve correct-

and attack infantry before soldiers can leave ing what went wrong. Many involve seeing if

their trucks” was the first and most basic. But what went right will continue to go right under

they also knew that that insight was not enough different circumstances. So, for example, if

to ensure future success. For example, scouts OPFOR has validated the techniques it used to

would have to figure out how to choose patrol complete a mission, it might try the same mis-

routes and observation positions so as to quickly sion at night or against an enemy armed with

and accurately locate BLUFOR’s infantry be- cutting-edge surveillance technology. A consult-

fore it breached the defense. Then staffers ing-firm ad displays Tiger Woods squinting

would need to determine how to use informa- through the rain to complete a shot and the

headline: “Conditions change. Results shouldn’t.”

That could be OPFOR’s motto.

In fact, rather than writing off extreme situ-

Five Ways to Put AARs to Work at Work ations as onetime exceptions, OPFOR em-

braces them as learning opportunities. OP-

The U.S. Army’s standing enemy brigade reason to participate. And customize the FOR’s leaders relish facing an unusual enemy

(referred to as OPFOR) applies the after- process to fit each project and project or situation because it allows them to build

action review (AAR) process to everything phase. For example, during periods of in- their repertoire. “It’s a chance to measure just

it does, but that’s not realistic for most tense activity, brief daily AAR meetings how good we are, as opposed to how good we

companies. Business leaders must act se- can help teams coordinate and improve think we are,” explained one OPFOR com-

lectively, with an eye toward resources the next day’s activities. At other times, mander. Such an attitude might seem antithet-

and potential payoffs. Don’t even think meetings might occur monthly or quar- ical to companies that can’t imagine purposely

about creating an AAR regimen without terly and be used to identify exceptions in handicapping themselves in any endeavor. But

determining who is likely to learn from it volumes of operational data and to under- OPFOR knows that the more challenging the

and how they will benefit. Build slowly, stand the causes. The level of activity game, the stronger and more agile a competi-

beginning with activities where the pay- should always match the potential value tor it will become.

off is greatest and where leaders have of lessons learned. On the next page are

committed to working through several some ways you can use AARs, based on More than a Postmortem

AAR cycles. Focus on areas critical to a examples from companies that have used Corporate AARs are often convened around

team’s mission so members have good them effectively. failed projects. The patient is pronounced

harvard business review • july–august 2005 page 6

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Learning in the Thick of It