SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Public Speaking Strategies
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for overcoming stage fright and delivering effective presentations, including preparing the audience and setting, managing nerves, and focusing on the audience.
KEYWORDS: stage fright, public speaking, presentation skills, audience preparation, speaking strategies
---

for a deeper relationship—converting a chance

meeting into an opportunity.

‘This article originally appeared in Harvard Management

Communication Letter (product #Co201f). To order,

visit hbr.org.

Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations page 7

page 8

HARVARD MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATION LETTER

Coping with Stagefright

by John Daly and Isa Engleberg

You’re about to make an important presentation. People are streaming into the room. Your

boss is sitting up front, Important clients are sitting in the second row. Your boss stands to introduce

you and you walk toward the stage.

As youapproach the front of the room your confidence wanes. Your stomach starts doing somersaults,

your palms are sweating, and your mouth feels parched. You pick up your notes and your hands are

shaking. Thank goodness, you say to yourself, for the lectern. As you start to speak you hear your

voice quiver and you feel your skin beginning to blush,

Welcome to the world of stagefright!

You are not alone if you have had this experience, Almost everyone has. Even people who regularly

appear in front of large audiences experience stagefright. The great American actress Helen Hayes

was known for throwing up in her dressing room before every single performance during a career of

more than 50 years. Luckily, researchers in communication and psychology have identified several

strategies that can help you overcome your nervousness,

Preparation is critical

Know your audience and setting. Successful speakers know it is critical to acquaint themselves with

both the audience and the setting before making a presentation. Talk to a few people who will be

in the audience. Ask who else will be attending and what interests them. Find out what audience

wa. hbrorg

Coping with Stagefright

20 Strategies for Reducing Stagefright

Understand that your listeners want you to do well.

¢ Believe you know more than your audience.

Familiarize yourself with the setting.

Get ta know some members of the audience before you speak.

Y Choose topics you know something about.

’ Prepare your message; indeed, overprepare.

imagine questions that might be asked.

w Memorize the first and last minutes of your presentation.

Focus on your audience, not on yourself,

Don’t practice in front of a mirror.

UV Never tell the audience you are nervous.

V Label your physiological excitement as positive rather than negative.

v Talk positively about your presentation to yourself,

v Turn your energy into something positive.

V Get rid of your “rigid” rules about speaking.

v Be flexible and adaptive during your presentation.

Understand that no presentation is “that important.”

wv Remember that you are not a good judge of how nervous you appear.

U Believe compliments on your presentation.

Think! Plan ahead to avoid problems.

members know about the topic. Discover ways

this audience is similar to, and different from,

other groups you have addressed.

Just as important, look over the setting before

your presentation. Find out where you will be

speaking and get there early. Check the room’s

acoustics, sit in a chairand see the room from the

audience’s perspective. Test all the equipment.

Assume nothing.

Prepare your material. Never underestimate

how important good preparation is to reducing

your anxiety. When you know what you want to

accomplish, what you are going to say, and how

you are going to say it, you will be less anxious.

Harvard Business Review Guide to Parsuasive Presentations

Mark Twain claimed it took him three weeks

to prepare an “impromptu” speech. Another

great speaker, Winston Churchill, said it took

him six to eight hours to prepare a 45-minute

presentation. Here are four rules for preparing

your presentation.

1. Know your topic. Audiences can sense when

you are bluffing, and when they feel you are

unsure of your material, they lose confidence

in you. Being unprepared also makes you, the

speaker, anxious. You have concerns about

unanswerable questions; you worry you

don’t have enough to say; you fear you are

wrong about something. Avoid these anxiety-

producing thoughts by being the expert.

2. Prepare more material than you think

you will use. If you have to give a five-minute

presentation, develop enough material for 15

minutes. It’s better to pare down than to mun out

of things to say.

3. Imagine questions people might ask.

Come up with answers before you give your

speech, Either incorporate the answers into

your presentation or hold them in readiness in

case those questions are asked. Savvy corporate

leaders and public officials use this technique

when planning to meet the press. A day or two

before the press conference, leaders are briefed

by staff about likely questions and possible

answers. That review makes them more

confident. They feel better prepared.

4. Memorize the first minute of your

presentation. You experience your greatest

anxiety at the beginning of a speech. Having the

start of your presentation memorized makes

you more comfortable, You also may want to

memorize the last minute of your presentation

in order to conclude with conviction,

Focus on your audience,

not on yourself

Most of us do not like to feel conspicuous. When

you talk toa group of 20 people, thereare 40 eyes

staring at you. if you start thinking about all this

attention, you may begin to focus on how you

look and sound rather than on communicating

your message to your listeners. Your attention

shifts from your audience to yourself. When you

become self-focused, your stagefright increases

and the quality of your performance suffers.

Television broadcasters know this. In studios

page 9

Coping with Stagefright

they avoid looking at monitors while the camera

is on them. If they watch themselves, they’ll be

distracted. Some public-speaking books suggest

that you practice in front ofa mirror. Bad advice!

Try it and you will see why. When you start

talking, yow’ll notice your facial expressions,

your hair, and your gestures, And, you'll think

little about your presentation.

What should you do when you feel self-

conscious during a presentation? Talk to

individual listeners. Pick out a person. Tell