SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Persuasive Presentations
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of making presentations feel like natural conversations to engage listeners, convey credibility, and inspire trust.
KEYWORDS: persuasive presentations, conversational style, building trust, engaging listeners, credibility
---

irrelevant. During the second presentation, the team making a pitch showed up with entertaining

slides and videos, but the show felt artificial and false—not qualities desired in an auditor,

So what was so special about the presentation from the firm he finally hired? Their pitch, he said, felt

like it was made by honest, competent professionals who “we just got talking to.” They did not makea

presentation, he said, but rather focused the conversation on the firm’s business issues and how their

team could offer support.

In the end, the partner said he believed he could trust this team and felt as though he had already

hired the firm. So he did.

Such “conversations” aren’t accidental. When we talked to the team representing the winning auditing

firm~-a Kingstree client—they said they had made a presentation. But unlike their competitors, these

auditors presented information in their own conversational style and got their listeners talking about

their most important needs, which then allowed the presentation to zero in on those issues,

page 22 www. hbrorg

Why the Best Presentations Are Good Conversations

In our work and research at Kingstree, we've

found this kind of dialogue is key to engaging

listeners, conveying credibility, and inspiring

trust during a presentation—whether it’s to a

large group or a small meeting. This approach

to presentations builds on the speaker's

unique conversational style, a style as unique

as his thumbprint. But it also builds on certain

characteristics of conversation that are common

to all of us, providing a framework that can

enhance the impact of presentations,

Traditional approaches

Unfortunately, traditional advice and coaching

for presenters often fails in this critical area.

For instance, speakers sometimes take the

role-model approach and think they should

emulate the great communicators. “Ronald

Reagan was a great communicator, Winston

Churchill was a great communicator, and so to

be a great communicator myself, 1 must be like

them.” Unfortunately, this often leads a speaker

to present an artificial self.

Another approach is to identify what a so-called

good presenter looks like—this is the “do’s

and don'ts” approach, First someone is filmed

making a presentation. Then she’s coached

to stand up straighter, wave her arms like this,

move around like that, add intonation to her

voice, and maintain maximum eye contact with

the audience,

When the person is filmed again, the results

look better: the performance is more disciplined,

the presenter speaks with more animation and

more variety,

But this approach also encourages artificiality.

Imagine this scenario. A speaker arrives at the

conference, meets the organizers—some of

whom she knows already, others who are being

introduced for the first time. Right from the word

“go? the speaker is creating an impression. As

she chats to people she meets, they are forming

an opinion ofher personality. She involves them

in the dialogue, makes points, asks questions,

and relates anecdotes, all in her own unique

style. Her gestures are not planned, her smiles

not rigged, her intonation not imposed.

But then she stands on the platform and behaves

differently, thus creating a new impression, a

false, even plastic, one. This is jarring and

weakens her credibility with the very people

she’d earlier made such a good impression on,

Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations

A better way

There is another way. In contrast, what if

the speaker’s style behind the podium were

exactly the same as when she was having a

conversation, modified according to the size of

the audience and what she has to say? Then the

audience members would see the same genuine

characteristics and would feel that they were

listening to the same person, behaving naturally.

Inotherwords, what ifthe person's presentation

style were completely consistent with her

natural one-on-one communication style?

This consistency is what made Reagan such an

effective communicator: his communication

style was the same talking to his wife as it was

giving the State of the Union address.

The dynamics of conversation

So how does one begin to set up the dialogue

with the audience? The trick is to identify what

makes conversation work and put that into

action in a presentation.

It starts with structure, Build your presentation

around key points, with evidence to support

them. In conversation, we tend to make a point

and then prove it. You might say to someone ina

bar: “f think the Olympics should always be held

in the same place, It would be easier, cheaper,

and safer.” You make the point and then back

it up. You are unlikely to say “I'd like to spend

a few minutes reviewing the options for the

Olympics...” And yet so many presentations

are built that way, on the Cartesian approach of

evidence leading to a conclusion, so effective

with the written word—but not with the spoken.

Make sure the evidence you use to prove key

points is mentally stimulating. A good example

or an anecdote will create a far better mental

picture than nonstop facts, A graphic slide will

stimulate thinking--the mental dialogue—more

effectively than a text slide,

So build around key points, Start with a strong,

captivating statement, and reinforce the key

points with some stimulating evidence. The

audience will be thinking about what you say,

and the mental dialogue will be under way.

Dialogue in action

What about the delivery itself? How do we

establish a dialogue when we are presenting to

page 23

Why the Best Presentations Are Good Conversations

several people? We cannot expect a response

from everyone inthe audience~and we couldn't

cope with such a response if we had it. And, if

we stopped for questions after every idea, we

would never get our message across!

But if we put back into our own delivery what

we do naturally in conversation, the audience

will feel just as involved as in a one-on-one

conversation. One way of getting the mental

dialogue going is to pause after an idea~the

“Did you get that?” pause. Why? Such a pause

forces mental dialogue. Audience members find

themselves thinking about what is being said.