SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Presentation Delivery and Engagement
SUMMARY: The text discusses techniques to engage the audience in a mental dialogue during presentations, which can be measured by the quality of questions asked.
KEYWORDS: audience engagement, presentation techniques, mental dialogue, rhetorical questions, question-and-answer
---

will feel just as involved as in a one-on-one

conversation. One way of getting the mental

dialogue going is to pause after an idea~the

“Did you get that?” pause. Why? Such a pause

forces mental dialogue. Audience members find

themselves thinking about what is being said.

Conversation, when it’s working, is a receiver-

driven affair. When we're speaking, we don't

stare at the other person. We tend to look all

over the place as we speak and come back to the

listener—the recciver—to get acknowledgment.

That “Did you get that?” pause with eye contact

elicits a response, usually a nod, a grunt or some

other signal that is telling us that the idea is

logged and we can carry on. So the listener is

driving the pace. If we get a quizzical or a bored-

looking response, we react accordingly, using

stock phrases or figures of speech such as “Are

you with me?” ar “Do you see what I mean?”

The listener is intimately involved in the

communication and is forced to think about

what we are saying. That signal to carry on may

be replaced by a comment or opinion and so the

mental and physical dialogue gathers pace.

Add an example or anecdote, and your audience

will be making mental pictures, relating what is

being said to their own experience.

Comedians are masters at the creation of mental

dialogue. A joke read in a joke book is so often

dulland, until one reaches the punchline, rather

pointless. But if well performed, the same joke

delivered by a skilled comedian will have us

falling about with laughter after a few words!

page 24

A good comedian’s delivery forces us to draw

mental pictures and to relate what he is saying

to our own experience and sense of humor, so

that we are all laughing, even if we all have

different pictures in our minds.

Rhetorical questions are another great tactic to

use. Here’s an experiment. Try not to think about

this question: “This article is quite interesting

so far, isn’t it?” Didn’t you find it difficult not to

respond? And didn’t you find it difficult not to

respond to that question, too? Even if I might

not like your answers, 1 have engaged you ina

dialogue.

Judging success

Of course, in a presentation, questions aren’t

asked solely by the speaker; they're asked by

audience members in the Q&A. At Kingstree, we

measure the success of our clients’ presentations

not so much by what they look like-we make

sure our clients use their own unique style—-but

by these questions.

If a presenter has sparked a dialogue in the

minds of his listeners, the questions that follow

his presentation will home in on its key details.

On the other hand, if audience members did

not engage in a mental conversation with

the speaker, their questions likely will be

perfunctory and related only generally to the

presentation’s points.

So the next time you deliver a presentation,

welcome it if you hear your key points qualified,

critiqued, even challenged. After all, it’s proof

that your listeners have been so engaged by your

presentation that they want the conversation to

continue.

‘This article onginally appeared in Harvard Management

Communication Letter (product #C0410C). To order,

visit hbr.org.

waww. hbrorg

HARVARD MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATION LETTER

Connect with

Your Audience

The key is using your physical presence

to create trust.

by Nick Morgan

Nick Morgan is President of Public Words inc, a communications consulting firm, and

author of Trust Me: Four Steps to Authenticity and Charisma.

“what moves an audience to action? Fair words or fair face?” Audiences are moved to

action by speakers they trust. Once a speech is fully launched, a successful presenter can feel the

audience deciding to trust her. The audience simultaneously relaxes~because it knows it is not

wasting its time—and pays attention—becausc it is confirmed in its original decision to attend the

speech. A kinesthetic bond develops between the audience and the speaker. It is this kinesthetic

moment that fundamentally determines the success or failure of a presentation,

Kinesthetics is the awareness of where you are in space in relation to other people. It is the single most

important skill to master as a presenter.

Why should this be so? Think of the issue from the audience’s point of view. It is simply smart, not

cynical, to try to judge underlying motivations before deciding to trust a presenter. At this level,

emotions do become paramount. Audiences should try to read the nonverbal communications of

speakers precisely because it is here that issues of trust are best decided. Most people are not great

liars (or actors), Speakers are no exception, Under the influence of adrenaline, most presenters resort

to instinctive gestures conveying nonverbal communication Jearned over a lifetime. It is at this level

that audiences take the measure of their speakers—and it is right that they should do so. It’s not

terribly easy to work up a slick sales pitch, but it is even harder to create a great presentation out of

mediocre material that you don’t believe.

Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations Page 25

Connect with Your Audience

page 26

Audiences understand this, and so they take the

measure of the presenter ata mostly unconscious

level, deciding whether or not to trust her (and

buy the message) based on the speaker’s ability

to connect with the audience in a way that

appears sincere, straightforward, and open.

Following are some tips to ensure that your

kinesthetic performance doesn’t get in the way

of connecting with your audience~and in fact

creates an opportunity for a true kinesthetic

bond to develop between you and them.

1. Get over your nervousness—fast. Most

speakers spend the first few minutes of a

presentation working out the worst of their

nerves. It’s something that audiences expect,

and they’re willing to cut the presenter some

slack at the opening. An audience expects a

speaker to warm to her task, however, and to