SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Persuasive Speech Analysis
SUMMARY: This passage analyzes the key elements of a successful persuasive speech, including clarity, simplicity, and addressing the audience's needs while appealing to something larger than self-interest.
KEYWORDS: persuasive speech, rhetorical analysis, audience needs, self-interest, Kennedy speech
---

“{ have a dream” speech, and even the Sermon

on the Mount all combine these ingredients

unforgettably. Reagan's elegy on the subject of

the Challenger disaster comes close; time will be

the judge of that speech’s staying power. In each

case, the absolute clarity and conviction of the

speaker came first. Then came the simplicity of

delivery. Finally, the success of the speech in the

moment ensured that history would remember

it forever,

in Kennedy's case, the speech is about freedom

and the unity of all free peoples, including

the citizens of Berlin. The enemy of freedom

is Communism, says Kennedy, but it cannot

prevail against free peoples everywhere.

That’s it. “Freedom has many difficulties, and

democracy is not perfect, but we have never

had to put up a wall to keep our people in,” says

Kennedy. The words are unforgettable because

they confront directly the hard reality facing

Berliners. He doesn’t try to palliate the ugly

truth of the situation. He meets the seriousness

of the political crisis with matching passion and

strength.

3. Meet the needs of the audience. Perhaps

most fundamentally, Kennedy understood the

needs of the citizens of Berlin and addressed

them. They had just been shut off from freedom

by the Berlin Wall and were understandably

feeling isolated and in danger of being

Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations

abandoned by the West. Would America stand

by them?

Kennedy brilliantly addressed those concerns by

talking about freedom being indivisible: “So let

me ask you, as I close, to lift your eyes beyond

the dangers of today, to the hopes of tomorrow,

beyond the freedom merely of this city of Berlin,

or your country of Germany, to the advance of

freedom everywhere, beyond the wall to the

day of peace with justice, beyond yourselves

and ourselves to all mankind.

“Freedom is indivisible, and when one man is

enslaved, all are not free. When all are free, then

we can look forward to that day when this city

will be joined as one and this country and this

great continent of Europe in a peaceful and

hopeful globe. When that day finally comes, as

it will, the people of West Berlin can take sober

satisfaction in the fact that they were in the front

lines for almost two decades.

“All free men, wherever they may live, are

citizens of Berlin, and, therefore, as a free man, I

take pride in the words Ich bin ein Berliner.”

By making common cause with them around the

issue of freedom, Kennedy met the most deep-

seated fears of the audience with reassurance,

“Ich bin ein Berliner” was exactly what the city

wanted to hear.

4. But appeal to something larger than self-

interest. We humans are at once noble and

selfish. If you appeal solely to our self-interest,

we will listen, and perhaps appreciate your

words, But we won't respect you. We know what

pandering is, and we are quick to recognize it.

The tendency to pander is what makes most

political speeches today so forgettable. Kennedy

understood that a principle was at stake, one

that might be difficult and dangerous to uphold

for the citizens of Berlin (and the free world)

but one that was worth the fight. To really get

your audience on its feet—and rioting-you

have to show them how self-interest and larger

principles coincide, such that personal sacrifice

is worth it if it becomes necessary.

5. Identify with your audience—early in the

speech. You can’t preach to an audience about

grand things, however, if the audience perceives

you as aloof from them. It’s another paradox

that gives speakers trouble. You need to find the

ways in which you and the audience are alike

and make those clear early on. Your listeners

will then be willing to open themselves to your

page 33

Are Your Presentations Inspiring?

message. It’s a way of building trust early on.

Audiences want their speakers to have credibility,

and they want to be able to trust them. You can’t

create the latter unless you find a way to connect

with your audience.

Kennedy accamplishes his identification with

the Berliners with the famous phrase, which

he utters in the first minute of his speech:

“Two thousand years ago the proudest boast

was Civis Romanus sum. Today, in the world

of freedom, the proudest boast is Ich bin ein

Berliner.’ Of course, the president goes on to

cement the identification with his brief sermon

on freedom, but the initial move comes early,

before the important themes of the talk have

been established. Thus, Kennedy realizes that

the first step he has to take is one toward his

audience, in the essential figurative sense that

shows that he understands their problems.

6. Repeat a memorable phrase—or two—

often. Even in this short speech there is a good

deal of repetition. It is the single most important

linguistic device of speechmaking. Audiences

have difficulty remembering what they hear~

all the studies show that listeners retain only

a small percentage of the presentations they

witness—and repetition helps them keep up and

gives thema sense of mastery of the occasion. So

resist the temptation to try to be clever at your

audience’s expense, Instead, look for ways to

repeat your basic message memorably. Kennedy

uses the “Ich bin ein Berliner” line twice, at

the beginning and at the end of the speech. He

repeats another key phrase as well:

“There are many people in the world who really

don’t understand, or say they don’t, what is

the great issue between the free world and the

Communist world. Let them come to Berlin.

page 34

The Jelly Doughnut Speech?

I's impossible to discuss Kennedy’s Berlin speech without at least a passing

reference to the slight slipup that prompts some to call this speech the "jelly

doughnut speech.” In addition to describing a resident of Berlin, the German

word "berliner” algo refers to a type of German pastry. The translation of