SOURCE: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Organizational Learning and Adaptation
SUMMARY: The text discusses how an OPFOR (opposing forces) team in the military effectively learns and adapts through a rigorous after-action review (AAR) process.
KEYWORDS: organizational learning, adaptation, after-action review, OPFOR, military
---

[Document: HBR_Learning In the Thick Of It.pdf]

side with the 11th ACR for ten years has regimen it learned from the 11th ACR. It when OPFOR acts, it will be executing a plan

assumed the OPFOR mantle. This new is difficult to imagine a more dramatic but also observing and testing that plan. The

OPFOR faces even greater challenges change than the wholesale replacement early meetings and rehearsals produce a test-

than the regular brigade did. It is of one team by another. That the new able hypothesis: “In this situation, given this

smaller. It comprises not professional OPFOR has met this challenge is power- mission, if we take this action, we will accom-

soldiers but weekend warriors from such ful evidence of the AAR’s efficacy to help plish that outcome.” OPFOR is thus able to se-

companies as UPS and Nextel. And it re- an organization learn and adapt quickly. lect the crucial lessons it wants to learn from

harvard business review • july–august 2005 page 4

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Learning in the Thick of It

each action and focus soldiers’ attention on our actual results? What caused our results?

them in advance. And what will we sustain or improve? For ex-

Such before-action planning helps establish ample:

the agenda for after-action meetings. Con- Sustain: “Continual radio commo checks en-

versely, the rigor of the AAR meetings im- sured we could talk with everyone. That be-

proves the care and precision that go into the came important when BLUFOR took a different

before-action planning. As one OPFOR leader route and we needed to reposition many of

explained to us: “We live in an environment our forces.”

where we know we will have an AAR, and we Sustain: “We chose good battle positions.

will have to say out loud what worked and That made it easier to identify friends and foes

what didn’t. That leads to asking tough ques- in infantry.”

tions during the planning phase or rehearsals Improve: “When fighting infantry units, we

so that you know you have it as right as you need to keep better track of the situation so we

can get it. No subordinate will let the boss waf- can attack the infantry before they dismount.”

fle on something for long before challenging Improve: “How we track infantry. We look for

him to say it clearly because it will only come trucks, but we need to look for dismounted sol-

out later in the AAR. As a consequence, AAR diers and understand how they’ll try to deceive

meetings create a very honest and critical envi- us.”

ronment well before they begin.” One objective of the AAR, of course, is to de-

The reference to AAR meetings—plural—is termine what worked and what didn’t, to help

important. While a corporate team might con- OPFOR refine its ability to predict what will

duct one AAR meeting at the end of a six- work and what won’t in the future. How well

month project, OPFOR holds dozens of AARs did the unit assess its challenges? Were there

OPFOR treats every at different levels in a single week. Each unit difficulties it hadn’t foreseen? Problems that

holds an AAR meeting immediately after each never materialized? Yes, it is important to cor-

action as an opportunity

significant phase of an action. If time is short, rect things; but it is more important to correct

for learning—about such meetings may be no more than ten- thinking. (OPFOR has determined that flawed

minute huddles around the hood of a Humvee. assumptions are the most common cause of

what to do but also, more It is common for OPFOR’s AARs to be facili- flawed execution.) Technical corrections affect

tated by the unit leader’s executive officer. Vir- only the problem that is fixed. A thought-pro-

important, about how to

tually all formal AAR meetings begin with a re- cess correction—that is to say, learning—af-

think. iteration of the house rules, even if everyone fects the unit’s ability to plan, adapt, and suc-

present has already heard them a hundred ceed in future battles.

times: Participate. No thin skins. Leave your

stripes at the door. Take notes. Focus on our is- More than a Report

sues, not the issues of those above us. (The par- At most civilian organizations we studied,

ticipants’ commanders hold their own AARs to teams view the AAR chiefly as a tool for cap-

address issues at their level.) Absolute candor is turing lessons and disseminating them to

critical. To promote a sense of safety, senior other teams. Companies that treat AARs this

leaders stay focused on improving perfor- way sometimes even translate the acronym as

mance, not on placing blame, and are the first after-action report instead of after-action re-

to acknowledge their own mistakes. view, suggesting that the objective is to create

The AAR leader next launches into a com- a document intended for other audiences.

parison of intended and actual results. She re- Lacking a personal stake, team members may

peats the mission, intent, and expected end participate only because they’ve been told to

state; she then describes the actual end state, or out of loyalty to the company. Members

along with a brief review of events and any don’t expect to learn something useful them-

metrics relevant to the objective. For example, selves, so usually they don’t.

if the unit had anticipated that equipment OPFOR’s AARs, by contrast, focus on im-

maintenance or logistics would be a challenge, proving a unit’s own learning and, as a result,

what resources (mines, wire, ammo, vehicles) its own performance. A unit may generate a

were functioning and available? lesson during the AAR process, but by OP-

The AAR meeting addresses four questions: FOR’s definition, it won’t have learned that les-

What were our intended results? What were son until its members have changed their be-

harvard business review • july–august 2005 page 5