SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Effective Communication
SUMMARY: The text discusses how to develop presence and authenticity in communication, using theater exercises to help people connect with their true selves and express themselves powerfully.
KEYWORDS: presence, authenticity, theater exercises, communication skills, leadership development
---

years their senior, The way to do this is not by

coming across as “I’m an expert and I know

more than you.” They have to find out what they

can offer to the world beside their smarts. So we

work with them to understand what they stand

for and what experiences have shaped their

values. Then they have the presence to hold

their own with senior executives. But knowing

who youareand what you stand for helps to give

you presence and credibility in any situation,

Interesting approach. You start with the

core person and build on that,as opposed

to working on external gestures and so

forth, like many traditional speech coaches.

Luar: That's something we feel very strongly

about. Instead of trying to get people to be

something they’re not, we help them to become

more comfortable with who they really are.

When people are in touch with their feelings and

express themselves honestly, their messages

come across more powerfully.

We're always looking for the key that will unlock

aperson’s potentialas a powerful communicator.

And we look to the theater for ways to tap into

that potential.

Why the theater?

HALPERN: Adult learning is a challenge because

the more you know, and the more analytical

you become, the more likely you are to judge.

By taking people out of the business world and

exposing them to theater exercises, we give

the beginner’s mind a chance to emerge, and

people become sponges. They're willing to take

chances and make mistakes—and that allows for

breakthrough learning. Non-actors are so free

and joyous and liberated when they get it.

LuBak: The idea that presence can be learned

is revolutionary for people. But presence can

be developed. It can be broken down into very

page 29

Presence: How to Get It, How to Use It

Presence: How to Get It, How to Use it

specific elements. Actors work on their presence

all the time. And they work hard at making it

look relaxed and natural.

How do you reconcile “authenticity” with

acting and theater skills? Aren’t they

mutually exclusive?

HALPERN: We all have different sides to our

personalities, and we take on different roles in

different settings—including business settings.

But just because the roles are different doesi't

mean they aren’t authentic aspects of who we

are. Knowing who you are and what you stand

for and what’s important to you helps you to be

authentic all the time.

LuBAR: Most of us have a hard time staying

authentic and true to ourselves in high-pressure

situations. It seems counterintuitive, but theater

exercises can help you stay in touch with—not

mask~your real self. When we're under pressure

to perform, or trying to manage a difficult

situation, we often end up coming across in ways

we never intended—our authentic selves seem

to run for cover. And when our body language

contradicts our message, we lose credibility and

trust, and come across as dishonest or phony.

Any examples come to mind?

HALPERN; | remember a video that Frank

Borman sent to employees when he was the

head of Eastern Airlines. He was talking about

the company’s financial troubles and asking

people to take a salary cut, but he had a smile

on his face. And he was leaning against his desk

in a huge office. Very incongruous—and very

ineffective.

LuBAR: And the interesting thing is, he’s

supposed to be a great guy—very nice, very

caring, But he came across as sneering and

insincere, probably because of nerves. He didn’t

come across as himself because he lacked the

skills and self-awareness to get his message

across. So coaching and theater exercises can

actually help you to be more authentic. It is

paradoxical.

What types of theater exercises do you

use?

HALPERN: We use a lot of storytelling and

improvisational exercises. We often work with

dramatic monologues and encourage people

to fully take on another character. For example,

if a CEO needs to motivate his or her people,

page 30

Instant presence: exercises to get you there

quickly

Have you ever found yourself at the front of a room about to speak to a group

of restless-looking businesspeople? Have you wished there was something you

could do to give yourself a quick boast in personal magnetism? Here HMCI.

offel

a few quick tips based on practical experience

Take a deep breath and let it out slowly. Breathing will caim you and

steady your nerves. The increased confidence wil show in your face and

physique.

Pause to look at the audience. Most people believe that they have to start

speaking immediately. But silences are powerful. Use them

Keep your upper body still. When the adrenaline hits, most people relieve

the stress by moving too much. And it’s typically aimless motion. Instead, let

the energy come out in your voice, and in pawerful but simple hand gestures,

Pick a few members of the audience to look at. Most peapie iaok

rapidly around the room, but it is more effective ty make eye contact with a

representative sample of the audience, Hold the gaze for as much as five or six

seconds.

Nod at them, Nodding builds agreement, And yav'll find people nodding

back, Those are fotks who are on your side. As the speech goes on, focus on

them, Don’t ignore the rest of the audience, but favor the ones who nod back

at you

we might pick the monologue from Henry V

where he rouses the troops. Or if someone is

uncomfortable using physical space, we might

assign a monologue that involves playing a

drunk and falling down. That creates a sense

of physical freedom that can actually shift the

way you move about the room in a business

presentation. We always come back and apply

the exercise to a business situation,

LUBAR: We worked with one executive who was

completely buttoned up. No facial expression,

no physical energy—just dead, and it was

really blocking his progress at work. The first

evening of the workshop we ended later than