SOURCE: HBR_Showrooming at Best Buy.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Technology
SUMMARY: Amazon introduced mobile apps like Flow and Prime that enabled showrooming and price comparison, leading to Amazon's dominance in online product search.
KEYWORDS: mobile apps, price comparison, showrooming, Amazon, online shopping
---

at a lower price (see Exhibit 1). To increase new customer adoption, Amazon offered a promotional

deal of a $15 discount to anyone who used the app to buy online while in a physical retail store.14

In early 2014, Amazon came out with a newer, simpler app called Flow, which used computer-

vision and instant object-recognition software to allow users to simply hold an item in front of their

phone’s camera—no need to type lengthy serial numbers or upload photos of products or barcodes.

Flow also kept a record of past purchases, making it easy for customers to automatically order

products that required replenishing, such as coffee machine pods. These apps made it possible to

look for better prices and more selection online while examining the actual products in stores.

For those consumers who may have been dissuaded from shopping online due to additional

shipping costs, Amazon designed a solution for that, too. For an annual Prime membership fee of just

$79, shoppers could get unlimited free two-day shipping on millions of items of almost any weight

and size.15 This, in effect, made incremental shipping costs a non-issue. By combining transparent

(and often lower) prices with free shipping with a Prime subscription, Amazon soon dominated how

customers searched for all products online. For instance, in 2009 only 18% of shoppers began their

online product search on Amazon, whereas 24% of shoppers began on Google. By the end of 2011,

30% of shoppers began their search on Amazon versus just 13% with Google16 (see Exhibit 2).

Other price-comparison apps

Amazon wasn’t the only company developing price-comparison mobile apps. Soon after Flow

was rolled out, a flood of similar apps entered the market from retailers and third-party companies.

These apps varied in their complexity and the number of features they offered to users.

2

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Showrooming at Best Buy 515-019

Some online retailers followed Amazon’s lead and released simple apps that scanned barcodes

and then looked for the product in their own online offerings. RedLaser, developed by a small start-

up called Occipital17 and purchased by eBay in 2010, used this type of simple barcode scanner.

Shoppers could search for competing prices at many retailers, both online and offline.

Other third-party app companies like Loopt used mobile phones’ GPS sensors to let users press a

button to “check in” at store locations, and then be directed to related products and local discounts

both for that store and for stores in the vicinity. Shoppers could access a variety of coupons on an as-

need basis. Loopt also integrated social features from platforms like Facebook, where shoppers could

see what their friends were purchasing and where they were checking in.

Other apps went further and combined geolocation with loyalty programs: Shopkick allowed for

physical and online shopping by turning the physical shopping experience into a game with a points

system. Unlike Loopt, Shopkick did not use the GPS sensors built into mobile phones, but instead

used sensors placed inside stores to detect when a shopper had physically entered, a process called

geofencing. The app then rewarded points to the shopper for entering the store.18 This required

shoppers to actually walk into the store to earn points—they couldn’t just check in from other

locations. Shoppers earned additional points when they scanned or searched for items inside the

store. These points could then be redeemed for iTunes credits, restaurant meals, and retail gift cards.

People were visiting stores just to get coupons, accumulate reward points, and try out products

which they often just ordered online at a cheaper price. Traffic to physical stores was increasing

without an accompanying increase in in-store dollar sales.

The Rise of Showrooming

Shoppers very quickly integrated mobile price-comparison apps into their shopping habits. By

2012, 37% of customers had engaged in showrooming19. Consumer electronics retailer Best Buy,

home goods retailer Bed, Bath, and Beyond, pet supplies retailer PetSmart, and toy retailer Toys “R”

Us were among the retailers that Amazon showroomers visited the most20 (see Exhibit 3). Shoppers

surveyed said their top three reasons for showrooming were better online prices, the desire to see the

product in person before ordering online, and because the item was out of stock at the retail store. By

the first quarter of 2012, online sales of consumer electronics had begun to rise sharply. A survey

among all shoppers who showroom cited consumer electronics as their top product type for

showrooming21 (see Exhibit 4 for a chart of the top product categories for showrooming).

Smartphone price-matching apps gave shoppers the best of both offline and online shopping.

They could use traditional stores as a showroom to check out the newest gadgets and then make their

purchases on their phones, often with a better price and selection. Shoppers valued the combination

of physical shopping with online prices particularly when they did not have to worry about paying

for shipping.

Mobile shopping apps were quickly displacing the computer as the go-to device for online

shopping. For the first time, technology presented what former Best Buy Chief Marketing Officer

Barry Judge called “an opportunity [for a competitor] to steal a sale right when someone is in the

throes of making a decision. That is what makes mobile so powerful.”22

3

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

515-019 Showrooming at Best Buy

Brick-and-Mortar Stores Fight Back

By the end of 2012, traditional stores began to fight the effects of showrooming in various ways.

Some stores chose to fight fire with fire by building their own apps or partnering with third-party

app companies. Others invested in their store selection by offering exclusive products not sold online.

Others hoped to entice customers back into stores by expanding their loyalty programs and discounts