SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Presentation Delivery and Audience Engagement
SUMMARY: The text discusses common mistakes to avoid in presentations, such as reading from a script, hiding from the audience, and not understanding the audience's needs.
KEYWORDS: presentation delivery, audience engagement, audience analysis, presentation structure, presentation interactivity
---

«Reading from a script. There’s no faster way to lose your audience's attention. Instead, look

up and establish a personal connection with the audience,

«Hiding at the back of the room or behind a podium. Let the audience see you and your

body language.

«ignoring time constraints. Don’t try to give a 30-minute speech in a five-minute slot.

«Going off on tangents. Anecdotes can be powerful tools; just be sure to keep them relevant

to your point.

Then there are the mistakes that require more sophisticated responses,

1. Not knowing your audience. inany communication task, you must understand what youraudience

needs to know. Your first step—long before you walk into the room—is to ask who the audience is and

how they will use the information you provide. Then you can structure your presentation around

those needs: pluses and minuses of a proposed strategy, overview of a new software package, or

potential applications of the recent research.

In presentations, unlike in other forms of communication, your audience can and will give immediate

feedback. Thus, the best presentations are interactive. At its most basic, interactivity comes in the

form ofa question or discussion time. More sophisticated—and usually more effective —are exercises

ww. hbrorg

Presentations 101

We have diagrams,

charts, and maps

im our heads.

Why should

you translate

them into words

and force your

audience to

translate them

hack to visuals?

that focus audience activity on key issues. For

example, get your audience to design solutions

to real problems that they are facing.

You can also use interactivity to fine-tune some

details. For example, a written report might

include the caveat “We assume you are familiar

with single-entry accounting.” But now you

don’t have to assume. Instead, ask, “Is everyone

here familiar with single-entry accounting?”

Don’t forget to look around for their answers—

and seek out the hesitant facial expressions of

those who hate to admit their ignorance.

2, Failing to grab your listeners’ attention.

The audience arrives wondering: Why should

we care? Why is this important? So, rather than

jumping straight into the history of federal

housing on Indian reservations, start by

describing the current housing crisis. You get

your listeners’ minds working (How did this

come about? How can we solve it?) in ways that

give them context for the historical discussion.

Usually the easiest way to hook the audience is

to describe the problem you set out to solve—

though if the audience is familiar with it, make

the description brief. Other successful “grabbers”

can be anecdotes (“When I opened a can of our

company’s dog food last week, I discovered...”

or surprising facts (“Over half of our customers

expect to buy a DVD player within the next six

months”).

3. Neglecting to provide a road map. Once

you’ve gotten the audience interested, they

start wondering, “Where are we going?” If the

terrain is complicated, they may need a road

map. A “Table of Contents” slide will help them

understand what you want to do, As you start

each new section of the outline, return to that

slide to help your audience understand where

they are, where they’ve been, and where they’re

going,

If your outline is simple, don’t waste precious

time on lengthy explanations. Still, you may

want to describe in one sentence what the

audience will learn. “By the end of today’s

presentation, I hope you will understand how

online buying is shaping the industry, who the

major players are, and where we should invest

to compete.”

4. Presenting without visual aids. The five

senses provide different pathways to people’s

brains. Your presentation should transmit

information to your audience through these

Harvard Business Guide to Persuasive Presentations

multiple pathways. Effects on smell, touch, and

taste may be difficult to create—but visual aids

are easy and powerful,

For many concepts—including relationships,

flows, and spatial organization—we think

visually. We have diagrams, charts, and maps

in our heads. Why should you translate them

into words and force your audience to translate

them back to visuals?

Visual aids also trigger emotional responses

(that’s why advertisers show attractive, happy

people using their products). We are especially

drawn to pictures of other people. So, for

example, if you are proposing strategies to

improve employee satisfaction, or if you are

commending individuals such as this month’s

sales leaders, use pictures to enhance the

person-to-person aspects of communication.

By contrast, text-based visuals are barely better

than no visuals at all. Because people can read

faster than you can talk, they find nothing more

boring than looking at a text-heavy slide as you

read it aloud word-forword. Visual aids should

have objects, pictures, or diagrams combined

with words; their effect should reinforce without

repeating what you say aloud.

Similarly, visuals are usually best on a screen,

nota handout. When you use a handout, people

look at it instead of at you. You lose the audience

focusand group dynamic, Handouts are good for

listing procedures or providing properly spelled

Web site addresses. But never hand outanarticle

providing additional background—some people

will read the handout instead of listening to you,

and most will throw it away unread. Instead, let

those who are interested come get it at the end

of the presentation.

5. Using visuals that don’t relate to your

message. Just as each paragraph you write

should have a point, so should each visual aid.

You express a paragraphs point in the topic

sentence; you express a visual aid’s point in its

title. Why am I looking at this picture of smiling

people? A title should tell me: “This initiative

willincrease employee satisfaction.” Your words

should also integrate with the visual, perhaps

including phrases such as “As you can see on

the slide...”

Too often, a presenter will display a dense table

ofnumbers, perhaps copied fromanother source.

Which numbers should I look at? What trend do

they illustrate? You should design and edit your

page 13

Presentations 101

visual aids in much the same way you format

and edit a document—continually thinking