SOURCE: HBR_Leadership That Gets Result_Daniel Goleman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Emotional Intelligence Development
SUMMARY: This text discusses how emotional intelligence can be learned and developed through practice and commitment, as demonstrated by the case of a marketing director who improved his leadership through coaching.
KEYWORDS: emotional intelligence, leadership development, coaching, self-awareness, empathy
---

changes little from childhood—the skills of

emotional intelligence can be learned at any

age. It’s not easy, however. Growing your

emotional intelligence takes practice and

commitment. But the payoffs are well worth

the investment,

Consider the case of a marketing director

for a division of a global foad company. Jack,

as I'll call him, was a classic pacesetter: high-

energy, always striving to find better ways to

get things done, and too eager to step in and

take over when, say, someone seemed about

to miss a deadline. Worse, Jack was prone to

pounce on anyone who didn’t seem to meet

his standards, flying off the handle if a person

merely deviated from completing a job in the

order Jack thought best.

Jack's leadership style had a predictably di-

sastrous impact on climate and business re-

sults. After two years of stagnant performance,

Jack's boss suggested he seek out a coach. Jack

wasn't pleased but, realizing his own job was

on the line, he complied.

The coach, an expert in teaching people

how to increase their emotional intelligence,

began with a 360-degree evaluation of Jack. A

diagnosis from multiple viewpoints is essen-

tial in improving emotional intelligence be:

cause those who need the most help usually

have blind spots. In fact, our research found

that top-performing leaders overestimate

their strengths on, at most, one emotional in-

telligence ability, whereas poor performers

overrate themselves on four or more. Jack was

not that far off, but he did rate himself more

glowingly than his direct reports, who gave

him especially low grades on emotional self-

control and empathy.

Initiatly, Jack had some trouble accepting

HARVARD

RE USINESS. REVAEW MARCH AT

ocument is authori

the feedback data. But when his coach showed

him how those weaknesses were tied to his in-

ability to display leadership styles dependent

on those competencies—especially the au-

thoritative, affiliative, and coaching styles~—

Jack realized he had to improve if he wanted

to advance in the company. Making such a

connection is essential. The reason: improving

emotional intelligence isn’t done in a weekend

or during a seminar-~it takes diligent practice

on the job, over several months. If people do

not see the value of the change, they will not

make that effort.

Once Jack zeroed in on areas for improve-

ment and committed himself to making the

effort, he and his coach worked up a plan to

turn his day-to-day job into a learning tabora-

tory. For instance, Jack discovered he was em-

pathetic when things were calm, but in a cri-

sis, he tuned out others. This tendency

hampered his ability to listen to what people

were telling him in the very moments he most

needed to do so. Jack’s plan required him to

focus on his behavior during tough situations.

As soon as he felt himself tensing up, his job

was to immediately step back, let the other

person speak, and then ask clarifying ques-

tions. The point was to not act judgmental or

hostile under pressure.

The change didn’t come easily, but with

practice Jack learned to defuse his flare-ups by

entering into a dialogue instead of launching

a harangue. Although he didn't always agree

with them, at least he gave people a chance to

make their case. At the same time, Jack also

practiced giving his direct reports more posi-

tive feedback and reminding them of how

their work contributed to the group’s mission.

And he restrained himself from microman-

aging them.

,

SR ES ae Aotis Liddle (TRAVISLIDDLE23@GMAIL..COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright, Please contact *

tional intelligence, see the sidebar “Growing

Your Emotional Intelligence.’)

More Science, Less Art

Like parenthood, leadership will never be

an exact science. But neither should it be a

complete mystery to those who practice it,

In recent years, research has helped parents

understand the genetic, psychological, and

behavioral components that affect their

Jack met with his coach every week or two

to review his progress and get advice on specific

problems. For instance, occasionally Jack would

find himself falling back on his old pacesetting

tactics—cutting people off, jumping in to take

over, and blowing up in a rage. Almost imme-

diately, he would regret it. So he and his coach

dissected those relapses to figure out what

triggered the old ways and what to do the next

time a similar moment arose. Such “relapse

prevention” measures inoculate people

against future lapses or just giving up. Over a

six-month period, Jack made real improve-

ment. His own records showed he had re-

duced the number of flare-ups from one or

more a day at the beginning to just one or two

a month. The climate had improved sharply,

and the division’s numbers were starting to

creep upward.

Why does improving an emotional intelli-

gence competence take months rather than

days? Because the emotional centers of the

brain, not just the neocortex, are involved. The

neocortex, the thinking brain that learns tech-

nical skills and purely cognitive abilities, gains

knowledge very quickly, but the emotional

brain does not. To master a new behavior, the

emotional centers need repetition and prac-

tice. Improving your emotional intelligence,

then, is akin to changing your habits. Brain

circuits that carry leadership habits have to

untearn the old ones and replace them with

the new. The more often a behavioral se-

quence is repeated, the stronger the underly-

ing brain circuits become. At some point, the

new neural pathways become the brain's de-

fault option. When that happened, Jack was

able to go through the paces of leadership ef-

fortlessly, using styles that worked for him—

and the whole company.

3

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Leadership That Gets Results

“job performance.” With our new research,

leaders, too, can get a clearer picture of

what it takes to lead effectively. And per

haps as important, they can see how they

can make that happen.

The business environment is continually

changing, and a leader must respond in kind.