SOURCE: HBR_Leadership That Gets Result_Daniel Goleman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership and Management Style
SUMMARY: The text discusses the pacesetting leadership style, its drawbacks, and when it can be effective.
KEYWORDS: pacesetting leadership, micromanaging, employee motivation, R&D teams, leadership styles
---

time, people often feel that the pacesetter

doesn’t trust them to work in their own way

or to take initiative. Flexibility and responsi-

bility evaporate; work becomes so task fo-

cused and routinized it’s boring.

As for rewards, the pacesetter either gives no

feedback on how people are doing or jumps in

to take over when he thinks they’re lagging.

And if the leader should leave, people feel

directionless—they're so used to “the expert”

setting the rules. Finally, commitment dwin-

dles under the regime of a pacesetting leader

because people have no sense of how their per-

sonal efforts fit into the big picture.

For an example of the pacesetting style,

take the case of Sam, a biochemist in R&D at

a large pharmaceutical company. Sam’s su-

perb technical expertise made him an early

star: he was the one everyone turned to when

they needed help. Soon he was promoted to

head of a team developing a new product.

The other scientists on the team were as com-

petent and self-motivated as Sam; his métier

as team leader became offering himself as a

model of how to do first-class scientific work

under tremendous deadline pressure, pitch-

ing in when needed. His team completed its

task in record time.

But then came a new assignment: Sam was

put in charge of R&D for his entire division. As

his tasks expanded and he had to articulate a

vision, coordinate projects, delegate responsi-

bility, and help develop others, Sam began to

slip. Not trusting that his subordinates were as

HARVARD docuNgatig authorize for Use only byron Liddle (TRAVISLIDDLE23@GMAIL.COM). Copying ar posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact OE 9

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Leadership That Gets Results

capable as he was, he became a micromanager,

obsessed with details and taking over for oth-

ers when their performance slackened. Instead

of trusting them to improve with guidance and

development, Sam found himself working

nights and weekends after stepping in to take

over for the head of a floundering research

team. Finally, his own boss suggested, to his re-

lief, that he return to his old job as head of a

product development team.

Although Sam faltered, the pacesetting

style isn’t always a disaster. The approach works

well when all employees are self-motivated,

highly competent, and need little direction or

coordination—for example, it can work for

leaders of highly skilled and self-motivated

professionals, like R&D groups or legal teams,

And, given a talented team to lead, pace-

setting does exactly that: gets work done on

time or even ahead of schedule. Yet like any

leadership style, pacesetting should never be

used by itself.

The Coaching Style. A product unit at a glo-

bal computer company had seen sales plum-

met from twice as much as its competitors to

only half as much. So Lawrence, the president

of the manufacturing division, decided to

close the unit and reassign its people and

products. Upon hearing the news, James, the

head of the doomed unit, decided to go over

his boss’s head and plead his case to the CEO,

What did Lawrence do? Instead of blowing

up at James, he sat down with his rebellious di-

rect report and talked over not just the deci-

sion to close the division but also James’s fu-

ture. He explained to James how moving to

another division would help him develop new

skills. It would make him a better leader and

teach him more about the company’s business.

Lawrence acted more like a counselor than a

traditional boss. He listened to James’s con-

cerns and hopes, and he shared his own. He

said he believed James had grown stale in his

current job; it was, after all, the only place he’d

worked in the company. He predicted that

James would blossom in a new role.

The conversation then took a practical turn.

James had not yet had his meeting with the

CEO—the one he had impetuously demanded

when he heard of his division’s closing. Know-

ing this—and also knowing that the CEO un-

waveringly supported the closing—Lawrence

took the time to coach James on how to

present his case in that meeting.“You don’t get

an audience with the CEO very often,’ he

noted, “let's make sure you impress him with

your thoughtfulness.” He advised James not to

plead his personal case but to focus on the

business unit: “If he thinks you're in there for

your own glory, he'll throw you out faster than

you walked through the door.” And he urged

him to put his ideas in writing; the CEO always

appreciated that.

Lawrence's reason for coaching instead of

scolding? “James is a good guy, very talented

and promising,’ the executive explained to us,

“and I don’t want this to derail his career. I

want him to stay with the company, | want

him to work out, | want him to learn, | want

him to benefit and grow. Just because he

screwed up doesn’t mean he’s terrible.”

Lawrence's actions illustrate the coaching

style par excellence. Coaching leaders help em-

ployees identify their unique strengths and

weaknesses and tie them to their personal and

career aspirations. They encourage employees

to establish long-term development goals and

help them conceptualize a plan for attaining

them. They make agreements with their em-

ployees about their role and responsibilities in

enacting development plans, and they give

plentiful instruction and feedback. Coaching

leaders excel at delegating; they give employ-

ees challenging assignments, even if that

means the tasks won’t be accomplished

quickly, In other words, these leaders are will-

ing to put up with short-term failure if it fur-

thers long-term learning.

Of the six styles, our research found that

the coaching style is used least often. Many

leaders told us they don’t have the time in

this high-pressure economy for the slow and

tedious work of teaching people and helping

them grow. But after a first session, it takes

little or no extra time. Leaders who ignore