SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Presentation Effectiveness
SUMMARY: This article discusses how to develop a powerful personal presence as a business presenter by finding and enhancing one's authentic communication style.
KEYWORDS: presence, communication style, authenticity, public speaking, leadership
---

change of topic.

Good kinesthetic speaking means making your

content and your delivery consistent with one

another. Far too many business speakers lurk

behind podiums or wander around the public

space in front of an audience, wondering why

they can’t seem to connect with their listeners.

The answer has been available for 2,500 years,

as long as people have been presenting—and

struggling to do it more successfully.

‘This article originally appeared in Harvard Management

Communication Letter (product #Co108B). To order,

visit hbrong.

page 27

page 28

HARVARD MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATION LETTER

Presence: How to Get It,

How to Use It

The Ariel Group uses acting exercises to make us

all into star performers.

Why do some people instantly command attention and respect? When they speak, we listen.

Their opinions seem to carry more weight. They inspire trust in those around them. These people

have “presence”—and the Ariel Group believes that we're all capable of developing it.

Based in Cambridge, Mass., the Ariel Group is. a consulting company of professional actors and singers

that works with executives worldwide to help them become more powerful communicators and

leaders. According to Belle Linda Halpern and Kathy Lubar, founders of the Ariel Group, presence can

be learned. The key is finding and enhancing your own, authentic style of communication—rather

than trying to be someone you're not. The company’s approach involves using theaterbased exercises,

But wait, you say. Isn’tacting about pretending to be someone else? A paradox? Writer Martha Craumer

recently interviewed Lubar and Halpern to get their “take” on presence, acting, and communicating

with integrity.

What is presence? How do you define that certain, intangible something that some people

seem to have?

Lupar: Presence comes from knowing who you are—and being comfortable with that. Everyone hasa

unique presence, a natural communication style. We work with people to find out what that is, and to

expand on it. For one person, presence might come in the form of stillness, which becomes a strength

that works well for them. Someone else might be high-energy, dynamic, and movement-driven. The

key is being real, being authentic.

HALPERN: People with presence know how to connect with others, no matter how large the audience

we. hbr.org

Presence: How to Get It, How to Use It

Learning to be yourself: how to develop

presence

You may think that presence is inborn ~—you either have it or you don't. Mot

true, saya the Arial Group, Presence can be developed. Here's how

Discover your natural communication style. Everyone has a highly

individual style of communicating. Finding that style~and being true to

it—leads to authentic presence. The dynamo who electrifies the room with his

energy and booming voice may indeed have presence. But for someone else,

presence may G from a quiet confidence and a few carefully words.

The key is finding and enhancing your own style not trying te be someone

alse

Be present. it’s hard to have presence if you're thinking about your next

meeting or your golf game, Instead, focus intently on the person or people

you're with. The worst insult you can give an actor is that he just “telephoned

in” his performance, implying that he wasn’t really there. Actors work all the

time on being 100% present, no matter how many times they've said the

same ling in the same scene, They find a way to be in the moment, to really

listen to how their partner's line was delivered and to let it truly affect them,

Businesspeople need the same focus in their presentations and in their

deatings with chents and colleagues.

Use all your expressive capabilities. Studies show that the nonverbal

aspects of your message ~ your voice, body language, and so forth-account

tor more than 90% of how your message comes across. The verbal content

counts tor legs than 10%, But businesspeople tend to focus almost exclusively

on the verbal aspects of communication-the content. They give little thought

to how they'll use their voice, engage their audience, or use their body or the

physical space around them, You can increase your presence by using more

ol your expressive capabilities your voice, body, face, eyes, spirit, and full

emotional range, Being congruent~using these capabilities in support of your

message —increases the power of your message.

Connect with your audience. A critical part of presence is the ability to

connect with people~ both individuals and groups, To make your message

come alive, use stories, metaphors, and imagery when you speak. These

resonate more powerfully with people than just facts and figures. And change

the way you listen. When someone else is speaking, listen not just for content,

but for that person’s values, strengths, and unspoken concerns. Finally, erase

the negative. critical tapes that get in the way of your ability to connect

with people. You can’t focus on others if you're busy judging yourself and your

performance.

is~whether it’s one person or a thousand. And

they have a sense of congruence about them—

their voice, body, emotions, words, and energy

all work together.

Why is presence useful in the business

world?

LuBAR: Presence helps you build trust and

credibility quickly. It helps you truly connect

with people. It communicates integrity. All of

Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations

these things help you to develop strong, long-

term relationships with clients and colleagues

relationships that are critical to business success.

For anyone who interacts with clients or is

responsible for developing business, anyone

who wants to inspire, lead, or motivate others,

anyone who has to manage a tough situation

or communicate difficult truths, presence can

have a major impact.

HALPERN; We work with a number of consulting

firms. The younger consultants often have to

develop relationships with CEOs who are 25

years their senior, The way to do this is not by

coming across as “I’m an expert and I know

more than you.” They have to find out what they

can offer to the world beside their smarts. So we

work with them to understand what they stand