SOURCE: HBR_Guide to Persuasive Presentations.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Public Speaking
SUMMARY: The text discusses the 'jelly doughnut speech' by President Kennedy and how effective public speaking can overcome minor errors, highlighting the importance of truthfulness and passion over strict accuracy.
KEYWORDS: public speech, rhetoric, persuasion
---

reference to the slight slipup that prompts some to call this speech the "jelly

doughnut speech.” In addition to describing a resident of Berlin, the German

word "berliner” algo refers to a type of German pastry. The translation of

Kennedy's impassioned statement, "I take pride in the words fch bin ein

Berliner,” can he liter. ken to mean "I take pride in the words }ama

jelly doughnut.” (To say “tam a Berliner,” Kennedy should have said, “ich bin

Serliner.”) Fortunately for Kennedy, the tolerance for error is higher in public

speech—it's a looser genre than, say, the written word. Accuracy is indeed

important, but truthfulness and passion are more so.

There are some who say that Communism is

the wave of the future. Let them come to Berlin.

And there are some who say in Europe and

elsewhere we can work with the Communists.

Let them come to Berlin, And there are even a

few who say that it is true that Communism is an

evil system, but it permits us to make economic

progress, Lass’ sie nach Berlin kommen. Let them

come to Berlin.”

It’s rare that the historical moment, the cause,

and the speaker come together to produce

unforgettable speechmaking, but when they do,

the words can echo down the years to inspire us

when the moment, the cause, and the speaker

are gone. And we can take the lessons of the

historical moment and apply them to our own

speeches. Great rhetoric may be the result. Even

ifyour listeners don’t finally riot in the streets,

This article originally appeared in Harvard

Management Communication Letter (product

#01014). ‘To order, visit hbr.org.

www. hbrorg

HARVARD MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATION LETTER

The Twentieth Century’s

Greatest Speech—What

Made It So Powerful?

How Martin Luther King, Jr. won over the

auclience with his “i Have a Dream’ oration

Martin Luther King, Jr. gave whatis often called the greatest speech of the twentieth century

ona sweltering day in August 1963, before a huge crowd spread across the Mall in Washington, D.C.

What made the speech so great? A quick look at Reverend King’s technique yields some insights that

can improve your public presentations, too—even if your audience is less than half'a million people

and your venue less imposing than our nation’s capital.

1. King made it conversational. Many people have heard of the “I Have a Dream” speech. But few

know that the speech (and the audience) really came alive about half way through King’s prepared

text when, sensing that he was not reaching his audience as he wanted to, King actually began

speaking extemporancously. He put down the prepared speech, looked directly at the audience, and

spoke from the heart. The result was electric. Studying the film of the speech shows that the audience

began to respond shortly thereafter, shouting their approval of phrase after phrase, culminating in

the unforgettable roar that greeted King’s final lines: “Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, we

are free at last!”

2. King made artful use of repetition. Drawing upon his background as a Baptist preacher, King

structured the ad-libbed portion of his speech by stating a new thought, and then elaborating on it.

Next he would repeat the original phrase, and elaborate some more. The resulting repetition helped

both the speaker and theaudience keep track of where he was. The open-ended nature of this structure

allowed King to work a phrase until he had exhausted it, and then move on, without confusing the

audience. “I say to you today, my friends, that in spite of the difficulties and frustrations of the moment

Istill have a dream, It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream. I have a dream that one day this

Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations page 35

The Twentieth Century’s Greatest Speech

nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of

its creed: ‘We hold these truths to be selfevident;

that all men are created equal. I have a dream

that one day on the red hills of Georgia the sons of

former slaves and the sons of former slave owners

will be able to sit down together at the table of

brotherhood. I have a dream that one day even

the state of Mississippi, a desert state sweltering

{in} the heat of injustice and oppression, will be

transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice.

Thavea dream that my four little children will one

day live ina nation where they will not be judged

by the color of their skin but by the content of

their character. I have a dream today.” Contrast

this fluidity with the more formal opening

of the speech, where King uses an extended

metaphor—"a promissory note”—that is more

compelling on paper than in presentation mode,

“When the architects of our republic wrote the

magnificent words of the Constitution and the

Declaration of Independence, they were signing a

promissory note to which every American was to

fall heir”

3. King used familiar language known to

every American. As King warmed to his task,

he quoted Biblical phrases and national songs

well-known to his listeners. Then he elaborated

upon those references and made them relevant

to his theme of working toward racial equality

and harmony. By referring to well-known

material, he brought his audience along with

him, allowing them better to grasp his theme

when he connected that to the familiar lore.

“This will be the day when all of God's children will

be able to sing with new meaning ‘My country ‘tis

of thee, sweet land of liberty, of thee I sing. Land

where my fathers died, land of the pilgrim’s pride,

from every mountainside, let freedom ring.’And

if America is to become a great nation this must

become true.”

4.King let his audience know exactly where he

stood. The most frequently missed opportunity

in business presentations today is the presenter

telling the audience how she feels about the

topic. What do you care about? Why? What is