SOURCE: HBR_Showrooming at Best Buy.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Pricing and Advertising Policies
SUMMARY: The text discusses lawful pricing and advertising policies used by retailers to prevent showrooming, including manufacturer-set minimum advertised prices (MAPs) and retailer-run loyalty programs.
KEYWORDS: minimum advertised price, resale price maintenance, loyalty programs, showrooming, retail pricing
---

when the manufacturer provided cooperative advertising dollars for the retailer to spend on TV,

print and other media, to advertise the manufacturer’s products. In this case, retailers needed to

respect the MAP and not advertise below a certain price. These policies were lawful if they did not

limit the distributor’s ability to advertise any price using its own funds.30

This was different from dictating prices via resale price maintenance (RPM), which used to be

illegal until 2007 but was later ruled to be legal in most (but not all) cases by the US Supreme Court.

By 2014, manufacturers could set RPMs in their contracts with authorized retailers as long as it was

not intended to reduce interbrand competitiona through price fixing. Samsung, one of the electronics

manufacturers that had a MAP policy, dictated that its resellers could not advertise prices lower than

40% off the suggested list price, that the policy applied to all media included internet but excluded in-

a Interbrand competition was that practiced among manufacturers and resellers selling different brands of the same type of

product, and was in contrast to intrabrand competition, that resulting among resellers of the same manufacturer’s brands.

5

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

515-019 Showrooming at Best Buy

store signageb, and that products could be sold at any price. Retailers that did not abide by

Samsung’s MAP policy would incur sanctions and could ultimately have their reseller agreement

terminated. A policy such as Samsung’s ended up helping brick-and-mortar retailers more than

online retailers.

Rewarding loyalty

Loyalty programs had been a longstanding method used by retailers to boost repeat purchases

from customers. Some methods for encouraging customer loyalty included giving them special deals,

coupons, rebates, and cash back on purchases. Stores such as Staples and Barnes & Noble offered 1 to

2% of the total money spent back to their card-carrying loyal shoppers.31 PetSmart, another retailer

susceptible to showrooming, had an in-store loyalty program called PetPerks which, in addition to

standard discounts on purchases, also sent members emails about coupons and sales as well as

information targeted to pet owners such as care tips.32

Reward Zone, Best Buy’s loyalty program, offered points and discounts to shoppers when they

purchased items from a Best Buy store or the website. The company also offered special discounts,

contests, and access to in-store events.33

More drastic measures

A few smaller retailers that could not build apps or reduce prices took more extreme measures to

fight showrooming, such as finding ways to punish showroomers. Early in 2013, Celiac Supplies, a

specialty grocery store in Brisbane, Australia, began charging a “just looking” fee of $5, to be

deducted if and when a purchase was made. A sign was posted inside the store stating:

There has been a high volume of people who use this store as a reference and then

purchase goods elsewhere. These people are unaware our prices are almost the same as

other stores plus we have products simply not available anywhere else. This policy is in

line with many other clothing, shoe and electronic stores who are also facing the same

issue.34

Many retailers were struggling with showrooming and were looking closely to the bigger retail

chains for inspiration, particularly those such as Best Buy, who was suffering from this practice.

Best Buy’s Response

Best Buy was hard hit by showrooming. In the last quarter of 2011, domestic same-store sales fell

by over 5%.35, 36 Sales at stores opened one year before fell by a similar amount (see Exhibit 5 for Best

Buy’s same-store sales changes from 2011 through 2012), after which its stock price fell by a quarter.37

A big portion of Best Buy’s income was tied to holiday shopping, when competition for dollars was

fierce and customers were most sensitive to prices. During the holiday season of 2012, Best Buy

posted a fourth-quarter loss of $1.7 billion.38 Their losses were mirrored throughout the consumer

electronics industry as sales in physical stores declined every year between 2007 and 2012. Online

electronics sales during the same time period, however, climbed significantly every year.39

b According to Samsung’s MAP policy “Pricing listed on an internet site is considered an “advertised price” and must adhere

to the MAP policy. Once the pricing is associated with an actual purchase (an internet order), the price becomes the selling

price and is not bound by this MAP policy. Statements such “we will match any price”, and “call for price” are acceptable.”

6

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Showrooming at Best Buy 515-019

Whereas Best Buy’s share of internet retail remained stagnant and their share of total retail slipped

in the U. S., Amazon’s fortunes seemed to be just the opposite. From 2009 to 2012, Amazon’s share of

U.S. internet retail climbed from 10% to 16% and their share of all U.S. retail doubled. 40, 41 (see

Exhibit 6). A part of the explanation had to do with these retailers’ categories of choice.

The dramatic shift in electronics sales from brick-and-mortar to online retail was especially stark

compared to how other products were selling (see Exhibit 7). Between 2008 and 2012 the share of

online sales of home-and-garden and health-and-beauty goods relative to total category sales grew

only slightly. At the same time, apparel-and-footwear and electronics-and-appliances’ online share of

total retail sales grew tremendously, with the latter almost doubling in four years.c

Best Buy soon began to wage a number of counter-attacks against showrooming. First, on the

defensive, the company tailored its in-store barcodes to block customers attempting to showroom

using mobile apps. It refrained from placing barcodes on some products inside stores42 and used in-

store exclusive barcodes43,44 to prevent shoppers from finding lower prices through price-comparison