SOURCE: HBR_Leadership That Gets Result_Daniel Goleman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership and Team Building
SUMMARY: A leader uses a variety of leadership styles, including coaching, democratic, authoritative, and coercive, to help a team address business problems and achieve goals.
KEYWORDS: leadership styles, team building, business strategy, problem-solving, performance improvement
---

She also stepped into the coaching role,

looking for ways she could help the team

members achieve what they wanted in their

careers, For instance, one manager who had

been getting feedback that he was a poor team

player confided his worries to her. He thought

he was a good team member, but he was

PAGE 11

le (TRAVISLIDDLE23@GMAIL.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Leadership That Gets Results

plagued by persistent complaints. Recognizing

that he was a talented executive and a valuable

asset to the company, Joan made an agreement

with him to point out (in private) when his ac-

tions undermined his goal of being seen as a

team player.

She followed the one-on-one conversations

with a three-day offsite meeting. Her goal

here was team building, so that everyone

would own whatever solution for the business

problems emerged. Her initial stance at the off

site meeting was that of a democratic leader.

She encouraged everyone to express freely

their frustrations and complaints.

The next day, Joan had the group focus on

solutions: each person made three specific pro-

posals about what needed to be done. As Joan

clustered the suggestions, a natural consensus

emerged about priorities for the business, such

as cutting costs, As the group came up with

specific action plans, Joan got the commitment

and buy-in she sought.

With that vision in place, Joan shifted into

the authoritative style, assigning accountability

for each follow-up step to specific executives

and holding them responsible for their accom-

plishment. For example, the division had been

dropping prices on products without increas-

ing its volume. One obvious solution was to

raise prices, but the previous VP of sales had

dithered and had let the problem fester. The

new VP of sales now had responsibility to ad-

just the price points to fix the problem.

Over the following months, Joan’s main

stance was authoritative. She continually artic-

ulated the group’s new vision in a way that re-

minded each member of how his or her role

was crucial to achieving these goals. And, espe-

cially during the first few weeks of the plan's

implementation, Joan felt that the urgency of

the business crisis justified an occasional shift

into the coercive style should someone fail to

meet his or her responsibility. As she put it, “1

had to be brutal about this follow-up and make

sure this stuff happened. It was going to take

discipline and focus.”

The results? Every aspect of climate im-

proved. People were innovating. They were

talking about the division’s vision and crowing

about their commitment to new, clear goals.

The ultimate proof of Joan's fluid leadership

style is written in black ink: after only seven

months, her division exceeded its yearly profit

target by $5 million.

Expanding Your Repertory

Few leaders, of course, have all six styles in

their repertory, and even fewer know when

and how to use them. In fact, as we have

brought the findings of our research into

many organizations, the most common re-

sponses have been, “But | have only two of

those!” and, “I can’t use all those styles. It

wouldn't be natural.”

Such feelings are understandable, and in

some cases, the antidote is relatively simple.

The leader can build a team with members

who employ styles she lacks, Take the case of a

VP for manufacturing. She successfully ran a

global factory system largely by using the affili-

ative style. She was on the road constantly,

meeting with plant managers, attending to

their pressing concerns, and letting them know

how much she cared about them personally.

She left the division’s strategy—extreme

efficiency—to a trusted lieutenant with a keen

understanding of technology, and she dele-

gated its performance standards to a colleague

who was adept at the authoritative approach.

She also had a pacesetter on her team who al-

ways visited the plants with her,

An alternative approach, and one 1 would

recommend more, is for leaders to expand

their own style repertories. To do so, leaders

must first understand which emotional intelli-

gence competencies underlie the leadership

styles they are lacking. They can then work as-

siduously to increase their quotient of them.

For instance, an affiliative leader has

strengths in three emotional intelligence com-

petencies: in empathy, in building relation-

ships, and in communication. Empathy—

sensing how people are feeling in the moment—

allows the affiliative leader to respond to

employees in a way that is highly congruent

with that person’s emotions, thus building

rapport. The affiliative leader also displays a

natural ease in forming new relationships,

getting to know someone as a person, and

cultivating a bond. Finally, the outstanding

affiliative leader has mastered the art of in-

terpersonal communication, particularly

in saying just the right thing or making the

apt symbolic gesture at just the right mo-

ment.

So if you are primarily a pacesetting leader

who wants to be able to use the affiliative

style more often, you would need to improve

your level of empathy and, perhaps, your

HARVINS doculent'is auiorized tor use only by- fous Liddle (TRAVISLIODLE23@GMAIL.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please conthee= *

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additiona! copies.

2

Leadership That Gets Results

skills at building relationships or communi-

cating effectively. As another example, an au-

thoritative leader who wants to add the

democratic style to his repertory might need

to work on the capabilities of collaboration

and communication. Such advice about add-

ing capabilities may seem simplistic—“Go

change yourself’—but enhancing emo-

tional intelligence is entirely possible with

practice. (For more on how to improve emo-

Growing Your Emotional Intelligence

Unlike 1Q, which is largely genetic—it

changes little from childhood—the skills of

emotional intelligence can be learned at any

age. It’s not easy, however. Growing your

emotional intelligence takes practice and

commitment. But the payoffs are well worth

the investment,

Consider the case of a marketing director

for a division of a global foad company. Jack,