SOURCE: HBS Delusions of Success.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Forecasting and Decision-Making
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of using the outside view, rather than the inside view, to make more accurate forecasts, especially for novel initiatives.
KEYWORDS: forecasting, outside view, cognitive biases, optimism, decision-making
---

consultants to assist in forecasting, they often cedents are not easily found. It’s not like in the

remain stuck in the inside view. If the consult- curriculum example, where many similar ef-

ants provide comparative data on other compa- forts had already been undertaken. Imagine

nies or projects, they can spur useful outside- that planners have to forecast the results of an

view thinking. But if they concentrate on the investment in a new and unfamiliar technol-

project itself, their analysis will also tend to be ogy. Should they look at their company’s ear-

distorted by cognitive biases. lier investments in new technologies? Or

While understandable, managers’ prefer- should they look at how other companies car-

ence for the inside view over the outside view ried out projects involving similar technolo-

is unfortunate. When both forecasting meth- gies? Neither is perfect, but each will provide

The outside view is more

ods are applied with equal intelligence and useful insights—so the planners should ana-

likely to produce accurate skill, the outside view is much more likely to lyze both sets of analogous cases. We provide a

yield a realistic estimate. That’s because it by- fuller explanation of how to identify and ana-

forecasts and much less

passes cognitive and organizational biases. In lyze a reference class in the sidebar “How to

likely to deliver highly the outside view, managers aren’t required to Take the Outside View.”

weave scenarios, imagine events, or gauge

unrealistic ones.

their own levels of ability and control—so they Putting Optimism in Its Place

can’t get all those things wrong. And it doesn’t We are not suggesting that optimism is bad, or

matter if managers aren’t good at assessing that managers should try to root it out of

competitors’ abilities and actions; the impact themselves or their organizations. Optimism

of those abilities and actions is already re- generates much more enthusiasm than does

flected in the outcomes of the earlier projects realism (not to mention pessimism), and it en-

within the reference class. It’s true that the ables people to be resilient when confronting

outside view, being based on historical prece- difficult situations or challenging goals. Com-

dent, may fail to predict extreme outcomes— panies have to promote optimism to keep em-

those that lie outside all historical precedents. ployees motivated and focused. At the same

But for most projects, the outside view will time, though, they have to generate realistic

produce superior results. forecasts, especially when large sums of

The outside view’s advantage is most pro- money are at stake. There needs to be a bal-

nounced for initiatives that companies have ance between optimism and realism—be-

never attempted before—like building a plant tween goals and forecasts. Aggressive goals

with a new manufacturing technology or en- can motivate the troops and improve the

tering an entirely new market. It is in the plan- chances of success, but outside-view forecasts

ning of such de novo efforts that the biases to- should be used to decide whether or not to

ward optimism are likely to be great. make a commitment in the first place.

Ironically, however, such cases are precisely The ideal is to draw a clear distinction be-

where the organizational and personal pres- tween those functions and positions that in-

sures to apply the inside view are most in- volve or support decision making and those

tense. Managers feel that if they don’t fully ac- that promote or guide action. The former

count for the intricacies of the proposed should be imbued with a realistic outlook,

project, they would be derelict in their duties. while the latter will often benefit from a sense

Indeed, the preference for the inside view over of optimism. An optimistic CFO, for example,

the outside view can feel almost like a moral could mean disaster for a company, just as a

imperative. The inside view is embraced as a lack of optimism would undermine the vision-

harvard business review • july 2003 page 6 of 9

Delusions of Success

How to Take the Outside View

Making a forecast using the outside view requires planners to of temperatures two days from now, for example, will be

identify a reference class of analogous past initiatives, deter- more reliable than a sportscaster’s prediction of the score of

mine the distribution of outcomes for those initiatives, and next year’s Super Bowl. This step is intended to gauge the

place the project at hand at an appropriate point along that reliability of the forecast you made in Step 3. The goal is to

distribution. This effort is best organized into five steps:1 estimate the correlation between the forecast and the actual

1. Select a reference class. Identifying the right reference outcome, expressed as a coefficient between 0 and 1, where 0

class involves both art and science. You usually have to weigh sim- indicates no correlation and 1 indicates complete correlation.

ilarities and differences on many variables and determine which In the best case, information will be available on how well

are the most meaningful in judging how your own initiative will your past predictions matched the actual outcomes. You can

play out. Sometimes that’s easy. If you’re a studio executive trying then estimate the correlation based on historical precedent.

to forecast sales of a new film, you’ll formulate a reference class In the absence of such information, assessments of predict-

based on recent films in the same genre, starring similar actors, ability become more subjective. You may, for instance, be

with comparable budgets, and so on. In other cases, it’s much able to arrive at an estimate of predictability based on how

trickier. If you’re a manager at a chemical company that is consid- the situation at hand compares with other forecasting situa-

ering building an olefin plant incorporating a new processing tions. To return to the movie example, say that you are fairly

technology, you may instinctively think that your reference class confident that your ability to predict the sales of films ex-