SOURCE: HBS Delusions of Success.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Strategic Planning and Forecasting
SUMMARY: The text discusses how business scenarios used in planning are generally inadequate due to human limitations in predicting complex problems, leading to optimistic forecasts and underestimated risks.
KEYWORDS: scenario planning, optimism bias, anchoring bias, capital projects, organizational pressure
---

mism are compounded by the limits of human physicians in Manhattan is larger or smaller

imagination. No matter how detailed, the than the number formed by those four digits.

business scenarios used in planning are gener- Finally, they were asked to estimate what the

ally inadequate. The reason is simple: Any number of Manhattan physicians actually is.

complex project is subject to myriad prob- The correlation between the Social Security

lems—from technology failures to shifts in ex- number and the estimate was significantly

change rates to bad weather—and it is beyond positive. The subjects started from a random

the reach of the human imagination to foresee series of digits and then insufficiently adjusted

all of them at the outset. As a result, scenario their estimate away from it.

planning can seriously understate the proba- Anchoring can be especially pernicious

bility of things going awry. Often, for instance, when it comes to forecasting the cost of major

managers will establish a “most likely” sce- capital projects. When executives set budgets

harvard business review • july 2003 page 3 of 9

Delusions of Success

for such initiatives, they build in contingency Organizational Pressure. Every company

funds to cover overruns. Often, however, they has only a limited amount of money and time

fail to put in enough. That’s because they’re to devote to new projects. Competition for this

anchored to their original cost estimates and time and money is intense, as individuals and

don’t adjust them sufficiently to account for units jockey to present their own proposals as

the likelihood of problems and delays, not to being the most attractive for investment. Be-

mention expansions in the scope of the cause forecasts are critical weapons in these

projects. One Rand Corporation study of 44 battles, individuals and units have big incen-

chemical-processing plants owned by major tives to accentuate the positive in laying out

companies like 3M, DuPont, and Texaco found prospective outcomes. This has two ill effects.

that, on average, the factories’ actual construc- First, it ensures that the forecasts used for

tion costs were more than double the initial planning are overoptimistic, which, as we de-

estimates. Furthermore, even a year after scribed in our discussion of anchoring, distorts

start-up, about half the plants produced at less all further analysis. Second, it raises the odds

than 75% of their design capacity, with a quar- that the projects chosen for investment will be

ter producing at less than 50%. Many of the those with the most overoptimistic forecasts—

plants had their performance expectations and hence the highest probability of disap-

permanently lowered, and the owners never pointment.

realized a return on their investments. Other organizational practices also encour-

Competitor Neglect. One of the key factors age optimism. Senior executives tend, for in-

influencing the outcome of a business initia- stance, to stress the importance of stretch

tive is competitors’ behavior. In making fore- goals for their business units. This can have

casts, however, executives tend to focus on the salutary effect of increasing motivation,

their own company’s capabilities and plans but it can also lead unit managers to further

and are thus prone to neglect the potential skew their forecasts toward unrealistically rosy

abilities and actions of rivals. Here, again, the outcomes. (And when these forecasts become

result is an underestimation of the potential the basis for compensation targets, the prac-

for negative events—in this case, price wars, tice can push employees to behave in danger-

overcapacity, and the like. Joe Roth, the ously risky ways.) Organizations also actively

former chairman of Walt Disney Studios, ex- discourage pessimism, which is often inter-

pressed the problem well in a 1996 interview preted as disloyalty. The bearers of bad news

with the Los Angeles Times: “If you only think tend to become pariahs, shunned and ignored

about your own business, you think, ‘I’ve got a by other employees. When pessimistic opin-

good story department, I’ve got a good mar- ions are suppressed, while optimistic ones are

keting department, we’re going to go out and rewarded, an organization’s ability to think

do this.’ And you don’t think that everybody critically is undermined. The optimistic biases

else is thinking the same way.” of individual employees become mutually re-

Neglecting competitors can be particularly inforcing, and unrealistic views of the future

destructive in efforts to enter new markets. are validated by the group.

When a company identifies a rapidly growing

market well suited to its products and capabil- The Outside View

ities, it will often rush to gain a beachhead in For most of us, the tendency toward optimism

it, investing heavily in production capacity is unavoidable. And it’s unlikely that compa-

and marketing. The effort is often justified by nies can, or would even want to, remove the

the creation of attractive pro forma forecasts organizational pressures that promote opti-

of financial results. But such forecasts rarely mism. Still, optimism can, and should, be tem-

account for the fact that many other competi- pered. Simply understanding the sources of

tors will also target the market, convinced that overoptimism can help planners challenge as-

they, too, have what it takes to succeed. As all sumptions, bring in alternative perspectives,

these companies invest, supply outstrips de- and in general take a balanced view of the fu-

mand, quickly rendering the new market un- ture.

profitable. Even savvy venture capitalists fell But there’s also a more formal way to im-

into this trap during the recent ill-fated Inter- prove the reliability of forecasts. Companies

net boom. can introduce into their planning processes an

harvard business review • july 2003 page 4 of 9

Delusions of Success

objective forecasting method that counteracts In this example, the curriculum expert made

the personal and organizational sources of op- two forecasts for the same problem and arrived

timism. We’ll begin our exploration of this ap- at very different answers. We call these two dis-

proach with an anecdote that illustrates both tinct modes of forecasting the inside view and