SOURCE: HBS Delusions of Success.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Project Planning and Risk Assessment
SUMMARY: This text discusses a process for making better forecasts by analyzing a reference class of similar projects and correcting for optimistic bias.
KEYWORDS: reference class forecasting, optimistic bias, project planning, risk assessment
---

ering building an olefin plant incorporating a new processing tions. To return to the movie example, say that you are fairly

technology, you may instinctively think that your reference class confident that your ability to predict the sales of films ex-

would include olefin plants now in operation. But you may actu- ceeds the ability of sportscasters to predict point spreads in

ally get better results by looking at other chemical plants built football games but is not as good as the ability of weather

with new processing technologies. The plant’s outcome, in other forecasters to predict temperatures two days out. Through a

words, may be more influenced by the newness of its technology diligent statistical analysis, you could construct a rough scale

than by what it produces. In forecasting an outcome in a compet- of predictability based on computed correlations between

itive situation, such as the market share for a new venture, you predictions and outcomes for football scores and tempera-

need to consider industrial structure and market factors in de- tures. You can then estimate where your ability to predict

signing a reference class. The key is to choose a class that is broad film scores lies on this scale. When the calculations are com-

enough to be statistically meaningful but narrow enough to be plex, it may help to bring in a skilled statistician.

truly comparable to the project at hand. 5. Correct the intuitive estimate. Due to bias, the intuitive

2. Assess the distribution of outcomes. Once the refer- estimate made in Step 3 will likely be optimistic—deviating

ence class is chosen, you have to document the outcomes of too far from the average outcome of the reference class. In this

the prior projects and arrange them as a distribution, showing final step, you adjust the estimate toward the average based on

the extremes, the median, and any clusters. Sometimes you your analysis of predictability in Step 4. The less reliable the

won’t be able to precisely document the outcomes of every prediction, the more the estimate needs to be regressed to-

member of the class. But you can still arrive at a rough distri- ward the mean. Suppose that your intuitive prediction of a

bution by calculating the average outcome as well as a mea- film’s sales is $95 million and that, on average, films in the

sure of variability. In the film example, for instance, you may reference class do $40 million worth of business. Suppose fur-

find that the reference-class movies sold $40 million worth of ther that you have estimated the correlation coefficient to be

tickets on average, but that 10% sold less than $2 million worth 0.6. The regressed estimate of ticket sales would be:

of tickets and 5% sold more than $120 million worth. $95M + [0.6 ($40M–$95M)] = $62M

3. Make an intuitive prediction of your project’s position As you see, the adjustment for optimism will often be sub-

in the distribution. Based on your own understanding of the stantial, particularly in highly uncertain situations where pre-

project at hand and how it compares with the projects in the dictions are unreliable.

reference class, predict where it would fall along the distribu-

tion. Because your intuitive estimate will likely be biased, the

1. This discussion builds on “Intuitive Predictions: Biases and Corrective

final two steps are intended to adjust the estimate in order to

Procedures,” a 1979 article by Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky that ap-

arrive at a more accurate forecast. peared in TIMS Studies in Management Science, volume 12 (Elsevier/North

4. Assess the reliability of your prediction. Some events Holland).

are easier to foresee than others. A meteorologist’s forecast

harvard business review • july 2003 page 7 of 9

Delusions of Success

ary qualities essential for superior R&D and your goals wisely and your means prudently.

the esprit de corps central to a successful sales Once an organization is committed to a course

force. Indeed, those charged with implement- of action, however, constantly revising and re-

ing a plan should probably not even see the viewing the odds of success is unlikely to be

outside-view forecasts, which might reduce good for its morale or performance. Indeed, a

their incentive to perform at their best. healthy dose of optimism will give you and

Of course, clean distinctions between deci- your subordinates an advantage in tackling

sion making and action break down at the top. the challenges that are sure to lie ahead.

CEOs, unit managers, and project champions

need to be optimistic and realistic at the same

time. If you happen to be in one of these posi- Reprint R0307D; Harvard Business Review

tions, you should make sure that you and your OnPoint 4279

planners adopt an outside view in deciding To order, see the next page

where to invest among competing initiatives. or call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500

More objective forecasts will help you choose or go to www.hbr.org

harvard business review • july 2003 page 8 of 9

Further Reading

Delusions of Success is also part of the

Harvard Business Review OnPoint collection

Make Better Decisions—Faster, Product no.

Harvard Business Review OnPoint 3582, which includes these additional articles:

articles enhance the full-text article

with a summary of its key points and The Hidden Traps in Decision Making

a selection of its company examples (Harvard Business Review OnPoint

to help you quickly absorb and apply Enhanced Edition)

the concepts. Harvard Business Review John S. Hammond III, Ralph L. Keeney,

OnPoint collections include three and Howard Raiffa

OnPoint articles and an overview Harvard Business Review

comparing the various perspectives September–October 1998

on a specific topic. Product no. 5408

Don't Trust Your Gut (Harvard Business

Review OnPoint Enhanced Edition)

Eric Bonabeau

Harvard Business Review

May 2003

Product no. 3604

To Order

For reprints, Harvard Business Review

OnPoint orders, and subscriptions to

Harvard Business Review:

Call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500.

Go to www.hbr.org

For customized and quantity orders of

reprints and Harvard Business Review

OnPoint products:

Call Frank Tamoshunas at

617-783-7626,