SOURCE: HBS Delusions of Success.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Forecasting and Optimism
SUMMARY: The text discusses the difference between the inside view and the outside view in forecasting, with the outside view being more accurate.
KEYWORDS: forecasting, optimism, inside view, outside view, reference-class forecasting
---

the personal and organizational sources of op- two forecasts for the same problem and arrived

timism. We’ll begin our exploration of this ap- at very different answers. We call these two dis-

proach with an anecdote that illustrates both tinct modes of forecasting the inside view and

the traditional mode of forecasting and the the outside view. The inside view is the one that

suggested alternative. the expert and all the other team members

In 1976, one of us was involved in a project spontaneously adopted. They made forecasts

to develop a curriculum for a new subject area by focusing tightly on the case at hand—consid-

for high schools in Israel. The project was con- ering its objective, the resources they brought

ducted by a small team of academics and to it, and the obstacles to its completion; con-

teachers. When the team had been operating structing in their minds scenarios of their com-

for about a year and had some significant ing progress; and extrapolating current trends

achievements under its belt, its discussions into the future. Not surprisingly, the resulting

turned to the question of how long the project forecasts, even the most conservative ones,

would take. Everyone on the team was asked were exceedingly optimistic.

to write on a slip of paper the number of The outside view, also known as reference-

months that would be needed to finish the class forecasting, is the one that the curricu-

project—defined as having a complete report lum expert was encouraged to adopt. It com-

ready for submission to the Ministry of Educa- pletely ignored the details of the project at

tion. The estimates ranged from 18 to 30 hand, and it involved no attempt at forecast-

months. ing the events that would influence the

One of the team members—a distinguished project’s future course. Instead, it examined

expert in curriculum development—was then the experiences of a class of similar projects,

posed a challenge by another team member: laid out a rough distribution of outcomes for

“Surely, we’re not the only team to have tried this reference class, and then positioned the

to develop a curriculum where none existed current project in that distribution. The result-

before. Try to recall as many such projects as ing forecast, as it turned out, was much more

you can. Think of them as they were in a stage accurate.

comparable to ours at present. How long did it The contrast between inside and outside

take them at that point to reach completion?” views has been confirmed in systematic re-

After a long silence, the curriculum expert search. Recent studies have shown that when

said, with some discomfort, “First, I should say people are asked simple questions requiring

that not all the teams that I can think of, that them to take an outside view, their forecasts

were at a comparable stage, ever did complete become significantly more objective and reli-

their task. About 40% of them eventually gave able. For example, a group of students enroll-

up. Of the remaining, I cannot think of any ing at a college were asked to rate their future

that completed their task in less than seven academic performance relative to their peers

years, nor of any that took more than ten.” He in their major. On average, these students ex-

was then asked if he had reason to believe that pected to perform better than 84% of their

the present team was more skilled in curricu- peers, which is logically impossible. Another

lum development than the earlier ones had group of incoming students from the same

been. “No,” he replied, “I cannot think of any major were asked about their entrance scores

relevant factor that distinguishes us favorably and their peers’ scores before being asked

from the teams I have been thinking about. In- about their expected performance. This sim-

deed, my impression is that we are slightly ple detour into pertinent outside-view infor-

below average in terms of resources and po- mation, which both groups of subjects were

tential.” The wise decision at this point would aware of, reduced the second group’s average

probably have been for the team to disband. expected performance ratings by 20%. That’s

Instead, the members ignored the pessimistic still overconfident, but it’s much more realistic

information and proceeded with the project. than the forecast made by the first group.

They finally completed the initiative eight Most individuals and organizations are in-

years later, and their efforts went largely for clined to adopt the inside view in planning

naught—the resulting curriculum was rarely major initiatives. It’s not only the traditional

used. approach; it’s also the intuitive one. The natu-

harvard business review • july 2003 page 5 of 9

Delusions of Success

ral way to think about a complex project is to serious attempt to come to grips with the com-

focus on the project itself—to bring to bear all plexities of a unique challenge, while the out-

one knows about it, paying special attention to side view is rejected as relying on a crude anal-

its unique or unusual features. The thought of ogy to superficially similar instances. Yet the

going out and gathering statistics about related fact remains: The outside view is more likely

cases seldom enters a planner’s mind. The cur- to produce accurate forecasts and much less

riculum expert, for example, did not take the likely to deliver highly unrealistic ones.

outside view until prompted—even though he Of course, choosing the right class of analo-

already had all the information he needed. gous cases becomes more difficult when exec-

Even when companies bring in independent utives are forecasting initiatives for which pre-

consultants to assist in forecasting, they often cedents are not easily found. It’s not like in the

remain stuck in the inside view. If the consult- curriculum example, where many similar ef-

ants provide comparative data on other compa- forts had already been undertaken. Imagine