SOURCE: HBS Delusions of Success.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Cognitive Biases in Business
SUMMARY: The text discusses how cognitive biases and organizational pressures can lead executives and entrepreneurs to be overly optimistic about the outcomes of their business decisions.
KEYWORDS: cognitive biases, overoptimism, decision-making, risk assessment, business planning
---

the mind processes information—and to orga- We also tend to exaggerate the degree of

nizational pressures. These biases and pres- control we have over events, discounting the

sures are ubiquitous, but their effects can be role of luck. In one series of studies, partici-

tempered. By supplementing traditional fore- pants were asked to press a button that could

casting processes, which tend to focus on a illuminate a red light. The people were told

company’s own capabilities, experiences, and that whether the light flashed was determined

expectations, with a simple statistical analysis by a combination of their action and random

of analogous efforts completed earlier, execu- chance. Afterward, they were asked to assess

tives can gain a much more accurate under- what they experienced. Most people grossly

Dan Lovallo is a senior lecturer at the standing of a project’s likely outcome. Such an overstated the influence of their action in de-

Australian Graduate School of Manage- outside view, as we call it, provides a reality termining whether the light flashed.

ment at the University of New South check on the more intuitive inside view, reduc- Executives and entrepreneurs seem to be

Wales and a former strategy specialist at ing the odds that a company will rush blindly highly susceptible to these biases. Studies that

McKinsey & Company. Daniel Kahne- into a disastrous investment of money and compare the actual outcomes of capital invest-

man is the Eugene Higgins Professor of time. ment projects, mergers and acquisitions, and

Psychology at Princeton University in market entries with managers’ original expec-

New Jersey and a professor of public af- Rose-Colored Glasses tations for those ventures show a strong ten-

fairs at Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson Most people are highly optimistic most of the dency toward overoptimism. An analysis of

School; he received the Nobel Prize in time. Research into human cognition has start-up ventures in a wide range of industries

economic sciences in 2002. traced this overoptimism to many sources. found, for example, that more than 80% failed

harvard business review • july 2003 page 2 of 9

Delusions of Success

to achieve their market-share target. The stud- nario and then assume that its outcome is in

ies are backed up by observations of execu- fact the most likely outcome. But that assump-

tives. Like other people, business leaders rou- tion can be wrong. Because the managers have

tinely exaggerate their personal abilities, not fully considered all the possible sequences

particularly for ambiguous, hard-to-measure of events that might delay or otherwise dis-

traits like managerial skill. Their self-confi- rupt the project, they are likely to understate

dence can lead them to assume that they’ll be the overall probability of unfavorable out-

able to avoid or easily overcome potential comes. Even though any one of those out-

problems in executing a project. This misap- comes may have only a small chance of occur-

prehension is further exaggerated by manag- ring, in combination they may actually be far

ers’ tendency to take personal credit for lucky more likely to happen than the so-called most

breaks. Think of mergers and acquisitions, for likely scenario.

instance. Mergers tend to come in waves, dur-

ing periods of economic expansion. At such Accentuating the Positive

times, executives can overattribute their com- In business situations, people’s native opti-

pany’s strong performance to their own ac- mism is further magnified by two other kinds

tions and abilities rather than to the buoyant of cognitive bias—anchoring and competitor

economy. This can, in turn, lead them to an neglect—as well as political pressures to em-

inflated belief in their own talents. Conse- phasize the positive and downplay the nega-

quently, many M&A decisions may be the re- tive. Let’s look briefly at each of these three

When pessimistic opinions

sult of hubris, as the executives evaluating an phenomena.

are suppressed, while acquisition candidate come to believe that, Anchoring. When executives and their sub-

with proper planning and superior manage- ordinates make forecasts about a project, they

optimistic ones are

ment skills, they could make it more valuable. typically have, as a starting point, a prelimi-

rewarded, an Research on postmerger performance sug- nary plan drawn up by the person or team pro-

gests that, on average, they are mistaken. posing the initiative. They adjust this original

organization’s ability to

Managers are also prone to the illusion that plan based on market research, financial anal-

they are in control. Sometimes, in fact, they ysis, or their own professional judgment be-

think critically is

will explicitly deny the role of chance in the fore arriving at decisions about whether and

undermined. outcome of their plans. They see risk as a chal- how to proceed. This intuitive and seemingly

lenge to be met by the exercise of skill, and unobjectionable process has serious pitfalls,

they believe results are determined purely by however. Because the initial plan will tend to

their own actions and those of their organiza- accentuate the positive—as a proposal, it’s de-

tions. In their idealized self-image, these exec- signed to make the case for the project—it will

utives are not gamblers but prudent and deter- skew the subsequent analysis toward overopti-

mined agents, who are in control of both mism. This phenomenon is the result of an-

people and events. When it comes to making choring, one of the strongest and most preva-

forecasts, therefore, they tend to ignore or lent of cognitive biases.

downplay the possibility of random or uncon- In one experiment that revealed the power

trollable occurrences that may impede their of anchoring, people were asked for the last

progress toward a goal. four digits of their Social Security number.

The cognitive biases that produce overopti- They were then asked whether the number of

mism are compounded by the limits of human physicians in Manhattan is larger or smaller

imagination. No matter how detailed, the than the number formed by those four digits.

business scenarios used in planning are gener- Finally, they were asked to estimate what the