SOURCE: HBS Delusions of Success.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Executives' Decision Making
SUMMARY: Executives routinely exaggerate benefits and discount costs in planning major initiatives, leading to failure, and this optimism bias can be addressed through more realistic forecasting.
KEYWORDS: executive decision making, optimism bias, forecasting, project failure, planning
---

www.hbr.org

Delusions of

In planning major initiatives,

executives routinely

exaggerate the benefits and

Success

discount the costs, setting

themselves up for failure.

Here’s how to inject more

How Optimism Undermines

reality into forecasting.

Executives’ Decisions

by Dan Lovallo and Daniel Kahneman

Reprint R0307D

In planning major initiatives, executives routinely exaggerate the

benefits and discount the costs, setting themselves up for failure.

Here’s how to inject more reality into forecasting.

Delusions of

Success

How Optimism Undermines

Executives’ Decisions

by Dan Lovallo and Daniel Kahneman

In 1992, Oxford Health Plans started to build a lion, creating the largest rail carrier in North

complex new computer system for processing America. Almost immediately, the two compa-

claims and payments. From the start, the nies began to have serious difficulties merging

project was hampered by unforeseen prob- their operations, leading to snarled traffic, lost

lems and delays. As the company fell further cargo, and massive delays. As the situation got

behind schedule and budget, it struggled, worse, and the company’s stock price tum-

vainly, to stem an ever rising flood of paper- bled, customers and shareholders sued the

work. When, on October 27, 1997, Oxford dis- railroad, and it had to cut its dividend and

closed that its system and its accounts were in raise new capital to address the problems.

disarray, the company’s stock price dropped Debacles like these are all too common in

63%, destroying more than $3 billion in share- business. Most large capital investment

holder value in a single day. projects come in late and over budget, never

Early in the 1980s, the United Kingdom, living up to expectations. More than 70% of

Germany, Italy, and Spain announced that new manufacturing plants in North America,

they would work together to build the Euro- for example, close within their first decade of

fighter, an advanced military jet. The project operation. Approximately three-quarters of

was expected to cost $20 billion, and the jet mergers and acquisitions never pay off—the

was slated to go into service in 1997. Today, acquiring firm’s shareholders lose more than

after nearly two decades of technical glitches the acquired firm’s shareholders gain. And ef-

and unexpected expenses, the aircraft has yet forts to enter new markets fare no better; the

to be deployed, and projected costs have more vast majority end up being abandoned within

than doubled, to approximately $45 billion. a few years.

In 1996, the Union Pacific railroad bought According to standard economic theory, the

its competitor Southern Pacific for $3.9 bil- high failure rates are simple to explain: The

harvard business review • july 2003 page 1 of 9

.DEVRESER

STHGIR

LLA

.NOITAROPROC

GNIHSILBUP

LOOHCS

SSENISUB

DRAVRAH

YB

3002

©

Delusions of Success

frequency of poor outcomes is an unavoidable One of the most powerful is the tendency of

result of companies taking rational risks in un- individuals to exaggerate their own talents—

certain situations. Entrepreneurs and manag- to believe they are above average in their en-

ers know and accept the odds because the re- dowment of positive traits and abilities. Con-

wards of success are sufficiently enticing. In sider a survey of 1 million students conducted

the long run, the gains from a few successes by the College Board in the 1970s. When asked

will outweigh the losses from many failures. to rate themselves in comparison to their

This is, to be sure, an attractive argument peers, 70% of the students said they were

from the perspective of executives. It effec- above average in leadership ability, while only

tively relieves them of blame for failed 2% rated themselves below average. For ath-

projects—after all, they were just taking rea- letic prowess, 60% saw themselves above the

sonable risks. But having examined this phe- median, 6% below. When assessing their abil-

nomenon from two very different points of ity to get along with others, 60% of the stu-

view—a business scholar’s and a psycholo- dents judged themselves to be in the top

gist’s—we have come to a different conclu- decile, and fully 25% considered themselves to

sion. We don’t believe that the high number of be in the top 1%.

business failures is best explained as the result The inclination to exaggerate our talents is

of rational choices gone wrong. Rather, we see amplified by our tendency to misperceive the

it as a consequence of flawed decision making. causes of certain events. The typical pattern of

No matter how detailed, the When forecasting the outcomes of risky such attribution errors, as psychologists call

projects, executives all too easily fall victim to them, is for people to take credit for positive

business scenarios used in

what psychologists call the planning fallacy. In outcomes and to attribute negative outcomes

its grip, managers make decisions based on de- to external factors, no matter what their true

planning are generally

lusional optimism rather than on a rational cause. One study of letters to shareholders in

inadequate. weighting of gains, losses, and probabilities. annual reports, for example, found that execu-

They overestimate benefits and underestimate tives tend to attribute favorable outcomes to

costs. They spin scenarios of success while factors under their control, such as their cor-

overlooking the potential for mistakes and porate strategy or their R&D programs. Unfa-

miscalculations. As a result, managers pursue vorable outcomes, by contrast, were more

initiatives that are unlikely to come in on bud- likely to be attributed to uncontrollable exter-

get or on time—or to ever deliver the expected nal factors such as weather or inflation. Simi-

returns. lar self-serving attributions have been found

Executives’ overoptimism can be traced in other studies of annual reports and execu-

both to cognitive biases—to errors in the way tive speeches.

the mind processes information—and to orga- We also tend to exaggerate the degree of

nizational pressures. These biases and pres- control we have over events, discounting the

sures are ubiquitous, but their effects can be role of luck. In one series of studies, partici-