SOURCE: HBS_Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Pricing Strategy
SUMMARY: This article discusses the challenges of pricing in the new world order, including the shift from variable to fixed costs, customer consolidation, competition from different industries, and lack of inflation.
KEYWORDS: pricing strategy, cost structure, customer consolidation, industry competition, inflation
---

roses Harvard Business School 9-999-003

December 7, 1998

Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order

Increasing Customer Value, Pricing Latitude, and Profits

Price too high and you lose the sale! Price too low and you can’t make money! Competitors

with different cost structures pummel your price structure. Customers batter your salespeople. List

prices are meaningless. Discounts are rampant. The old rules of thumb don’t hold. Cost-plus pricing

never made much sense and now it seems stupid. Life is hard, and sometimes seems impossible—

and pricing is often the hardest part.

Managers who understand how to price in the new era can prosper and grow. It isn’t easy but

it is profitable. And, most of it is necessary just to survive.

This article explains the sources of price pressure carefully so you can clearly understand

them, and then provides an improved framework, and a powerful toolkit for pricing in the new world

order.

iL THE FALL OF THE OLD WORLD ORDER

Among the more fundamental changes which create new price pressure are:

1. A profound shift from variable costs to fixed costs. In fact, for some companies,

such as software providers, variable costs are very close to zero!

2. A sharp consolidation in the size of customers and individual orders. It is not

unusual in today’s concentrated account base world to find companies that do

nearly all their business with a dozen customers. And, in many industries, long

term contracts, global/national supply relationships, and complex multi-product

and service outsourcing arrangements lead to unusually large orders. Orders of

tens and hundreds of millions of dollars are increasingly more frequent.

Locomotive manufacturers in the United States now have only four major

railroads as potential customers down from many just a few years ago.

This note was prepared by Professor Benson P Shapiro, B.P. Shapiro, Inc., 91 Main Street, Concord, MA 01742, (978) 369-

7599.

Copyright © 1998 Benson P. Shapiro. All righs reserved. To order copies or request permission to reproduce

materials, call 1-800-545-7685, write Harvard Business School Publishing, Boston, MA 02163, or go to

http://www.-hbsp.harvard.edu. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system,

used in a spreadsheet, or transmitted in any form or by any means—electronic, mechanical, photocopying,

recording, or otherwise-—without the permission of Harvard Business School or Professor Benson P. Shapiro.

9-999-003 Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order

3. Competitors from different industries and with vastly different cost structures and

“value propositions” regularly meet in the market place. Natural gas and diesel

buses compete in city transit. Mainframe computers joust with networks of

servers and microcomputers.

4. Almost no inflation and, in some industries, deflation, which makes it difficult to

slip price increases by increasingly sophisticated and vigilant purchasing

executives supported by advanced computer sentries. Flat pricing is the result of

increased worldwide competition; lower transportation, communication and

computer costs which increase the size of the “‘competitive set”; and high

mobility of capital and knowledge which means that “focused monopolies” with

high margins are “commoditized” much faster than ever before.

5. Electronic auctions and near auctions, often facilitated by the Internet, make it

harder to survive because of much lower customer search and acquisition cost

“friction.” There is more fluidity in markets so that more suppliers can compete,

and more buyers can shop prices across more suppliers. The prices of

undifferentiated products and services will increasingly be bid down by this

Draconian process.

In essence, we are in a worldwide, cross-industry buyers’ market with few sustainable high-

margin niches. Despite the challenges, there are better, evolving pricing approaches that help in

many situations. Performance-based pricing is a prime example. It is helping sellers to create more

customer value while being better compensated for their products and/or services. There are other

such approaches as well. Before we consider them we need a firm foundation for improved pricing

and a deeper understanding of the more important changes.

I THE FOUNDATION: AN INTELLIGENT PRICING PHILOSOPHY

A good pricing philosophy must incorporate the customer’s perspective, as well as the dual

nature of customer-vendor relationships. These relationships have a cooperative component and a

conflict-ridden component.

(Exhibit 1) is a real income statement that attempts to capture the whole relationship. It has

three horizontal lines. The lowest is cost (at this point it is not necessary to specify what kind of cost

— variable, total, average, etc.). The top line is the customer’s perceived value. It is the total worth to

the customer of all the tangible and intangible attributes of the product/service.

The range or area between the cost line and the customer value line defines the “Zone of

Possible Agreement” (ZOPA). The customer will not pay more than the perceived value (they may

pay less as noted below). The supplier should not knowingly sell below cost (on a regular basis).

Price moves in the ZOPA range. Raising the price increases the seller’s profits and decreases the

“customer benefit”. The seller’s profit is the driving force to sell, and the customer benefit, the

driving force for the customer to buy. As price goes up, the sale becomes harder, and vice versa.

Setting price in the ZOPA is only a small part of the total pricing decision. But, most

managers focus on the zero-sum game! in the ZOPA and argue about how to balance supplier profit

and customer benefit on the price pivot point (Exhibit 2). More important, however, is how to

1 4 “zero-sum game” is a two-part situation in which the winnings of one participant equals the losses of the

other. It is impossible for both sides to simultaneously win.

i ert —rsnntiiNpen eterna tA TAO ASA

2

Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order 9-899-003

expand the zone of possible agreement by increasing perceived customer value and/or decreasing

costs. This process increases the spoils for both buyer and seller, and turns the zero sum game within

ZOPA into a non-zero sum game.