SOURCE: HBS_The Whys and Hows of Feedback.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Feedback Delivery
SUMMARY: The text discusses how feedback delivery can be shaped by cultural differences and the performance of the employee, with recommendations on calibrating language and structuring feedback sessions.
KEYWORDS: feedback delivery, cultural differences, performance reviews, sandwich technique
---

upgraders, words preceding or following negative feedback that make it feel stronger,

such as absolutely, totally, or strongly: “This is absolutely inappropriate,” or “This is

totally unprofessional.” By contrast, more indirect cultures use more downgraders, words

that soften the criticism, such as kind of, sort of, a little, a bit, maybe, and slightly. Another

type of downgrader is a deliberate understatement, such as “We are not quite there yet”

when you really mean “This is nowhere close to complete.”35

Paying attention to linguistic cues can help managers calibrate their language to ensure that their

feedback is heard as intended, and that they themselves hear the intended messages in the feedback

they receive.

Feedback: How to Run a Session

A common practice in feedback sessions, especially formal performance reviews, is the “sandwich

technique” of beginning and ending the session with praise, and confining the negative comments to

the middle. For example, Jone L. Pearce recommends that managers “Try to begin and end with areas

of success” in a formal performance evaluation.36 The exact recipe of the “sandwich,” however, varies

33 James R. Bailey, Chao C. Chen, and Sheng-Gong Dou, “Conceptions of Self and Performance-Related Feedback in the U.S.,

Japan and China,” Journal of International Business Studies 28, no. 3 (1997): 605-625.

34 Mary F. Sully De Luque and Steven M. Sommer, “The Impact of Culture on Feedback-Seeking Behaviors: An Integrated Model

and Propositions,” Academy Of Management Review 25, no. 4 (2000): 829-849.

35 Erin Meyer, “How to Say ‘This Is Crap’ in Different Cultures,” Harvard Business Review blog, https://hbr.org/2014/02/how-

to-say-this-is-crap-in-different-cultures/, February 25, 2014, accessed May 22, 2015.

36 Jone L. Pearce, Organizational Behavior: Real Research for Real Managers, p. 103.

10

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback 416-013

depending on the quality of the employee. There is no point in nitpicking the mistakes of an excellent

performer, or of trying to find some upside to a record of underperformance.

Feedback sessions with poor performers need to be handled differently from those with excellent-

to-acceptable performers. Grote created a matrix of performance based on performance results and

behaviors (“behaviors” meaning general collegiality, ethics, cultural fit, and other intangibles that may

not affect the quality of the work but may have great impact on the quality of the workplace) to

categorize the five types of employees:

Poor Results Average Great Results

Great Behavior Lovable Loser Star

Average Journeyman

Poor Behavior Failure Prima Donnas

Source: Dick Grote, How to Be Good at Performance Appraisals (Boston: Harvard Business Review Press, 2011).

Feedback for stars and journeymen—the solid B-level performers who keep an organization

running—should focus primarily on motivating and energizing the employee. High-performing

employees are usually self-motivated and willing to bring up their own shortcomings in a performance

review, assuming they know what those shortcomings are. This is an important caveat. Managers may tend to

avoid giving negative feedback to generally good employees whom they like, overlooking areas for

improvement or possible misalignment with the organization. Such managers assume that because of

their collegial relationships, the liked employees will seek out feedback, and more importantly, know

what feedback they need. This can be a problem when organizational goals change or an employee is in

difficult circumstances.37 A manager should not feel the need to come up with picayune shortcomings or

mistakes in order to “balance” a good worker’s performance review, but should also keep a keen eye out

for errors or lapses that might signify a lack of alignment or capacity.

Failures, lovable losers, and prima donnas, however, need a sharp wake-up call. The balance to be

struck is to make a clear case for “the need for an immediate and total turnaround if the person is to

remain employed,”38 while not evoking excessive defensiveness. Avoid looking for a bright side where

none exists, or mentioning the employee’s strengths, as some positive comments can be latched on to

by an underperformer. At the same time, focus on specific actions rather than personal qualities. Pearce

advises managers confronting underperforming employees to “describe the effects of the action. For

example, ‘When you do [describe the action] it leads to [describe the negative consequences for the

organization].’ Practice this; it works.”39 The main focus of the feedback session is to achieve agreement

between the manager and employee on the existence of the action and consequence, and to begin

problem solving: “Performance feedback works best when it is a conversation about causes—a

conversation about how to fix the problems.”40

37 Susan M. Adams, “Positive Affect and Feedback-Giving Behavior,” Journal of Managerial Psychology 20, no. 1 (2005): 24-42.

38 Dick Grote, How to Be Good at Performance Appraisals, p. 159.

39 Jone L. Pearce, Organizational Behavior: Real Research for Real Managers, p. 93.

40 Jone L. Pearce, Organizational Behavior: Real Research for Real Managers, p. 92.

11

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

416-013 The Whys and Hows of Feedback

The remainder of this section will provide a basic outline for a formal or semi-formal feedback

session, outlining what to do and things to keep in mind before, during, and after the session.

Before the session

Get logistics, paperwork, and data in order

Giver Recipient

Allow 45–60 minutes for a feedback session. Fill out any required paperwork. Create a list of

Avoid having anything inflexible scheduled your main accomplishments during the most

immediately after a feedback session, in case recent period (whether this is asked for or not).

things run long. List two or three areas for improvement, as well.

Do not attempt to do a performance appraisal In addition to discrete accomplishments, spend

over the phone or through email. It is important some time reflecting on your overall