SOURCE: HBS_Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Pricing Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how a company's pricing strategy should be influenced by its cost structure and customers' price sensitivity.
KEYWORDS: pricing strategy, cost structure, price sensitivity, profit impact, account concentration
---

of the revenue from the additional units drops to the bottom line as profit. The opposite is true in high

variable cost industries. Incremental volume isn’t very important there. (Exhibit 4) shows that a 10%

increase in unit volume has almost no impact on profitability in a high variable cost business but that

a 10% price increase has big profit impact.

If customers are price sensitive, it would encourage us as a supplier to cut price. On the other

hand, if customers are not price sensitive, we are encouraged to raise prices.

Crossing price sensitivity and cost structure leads us to (Exhibit 5). The arrows in each box

indicate the direction of the pressure on price. In the upper left-hand box we have high price

sensitivity and fixed costs both encouraging lower prices. Tourist (quite price sensitive customers)

airlines fit in this box. That helps to explain the vicious price wars among airlines in the early 1990s.

The lower right hand box, with variable cost and low customer price sensitivity, is a kinder, gentler

world. But, fewer companies Jive in that world. The off diagonals with mixed arrows are the more

challenging decision making areas. The upper right is particularly difficult: it has high variable costs

creating the need for higher prices and margins, and price sensitive customers who put pressure on

getting lower prices. This is precisely where many suppliers live, and more and more are being

pushed into that crowded, treacherous world by increasing customer price sensitivity!

IV. THE SHIFT TO A CONCENTRATED ACCOUNT BASE

Another significant change in most businesses is a shift to a more concentrated account base.

Fewer customers comprise a larger share of the typical revenue base. In the “old days” it was said

that 20% of a company’s accounts generated 80% of the revenue. Now, even for many large

/

t

Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order 9-999-003

companies, 20 accounts represent 80% of the volume. In the toy business, the neighborhood shop has

been replaced by chains — three account for the preponderance of retail toy sales.

Two trends have led to account concentration. Mergers, acquisitions and strategic exit have

eliminated many customers. And, the differential growth of successful firms has created fewer, larger

prospects and customers.

As if more account concentration were not enough, some smaller and mid-sized buyers have

turned to virtual account concentration — buying groups. Hospitals have joined buying groups to

extract better prices, service, and terms and conditions from suppliers. Small retailers in many

industries such as farm supplies and hardware have done the same. Some groups don’t buy together,

they “just” exchange purchase cost information, often for infrequently purchased capital equipment,

and thus increase price pressure.

Astute buyers, furthermore, have amplified the account concentration process by

concentrating their orders with fewer suppliers. Trends among sophisticated purchasers include

longer commitments and more centralized purchasing. Thus, the larger customers provide even larger

orders than their sheer size would dictate.

And, “dictate” is the operative word. The natural consolidation in customer industries has

been accompanied by order concentration because buyers understand the clout of large orders. This

represents a big issue for marketers. Business in terms of orders, and customers, and prospective

orders and customers, is in bigger “chunks.” The pressure to obtain the fewer, bigger chunks is high.

And, the focal point for the pressure is price, and its close relative, terms and conditions. Terms and

conditions (T&Cs in many industries) refer to such issues as credit and payment agreements, etc.

(Exhibit 6) is a useful way to consider the shifts in cost structure and account base. In

essence, the movement has been toward the upper left quadrant—meaning that price setting is

becoming even more important and even harder. The profit leverage in the upper left quadrant (fixed

costs and concentrated account base) is in major account management, price making, and, of course,

negotiation—which in a sense, is the combination of account management and pricing.

Vv. LIMITLESS LEVERAGE: INCREASING RETURNS TO SCALE

The old adage, “The rich get richer..” is truer in many more businesses than ever before. In

some businesses, customer value increases with supplier unit volume. This phenomenon which

economists call “network externalities,” is clearest in a simple example of the old telephone system.

If you are the first telephone on an isolated network, the phone is useless — there is no one to call you

or for you to call. The value begins with the second telephone on the network. And, of course, it

goes up rapidly with more phones on the network Thus, each succeeding customer generates more

value for the previous customers.

The same thing happens in many “new age” businesses. Consider commercial software. As

more users adopt it, there are more workers skilled in its use, more consultants and systems

integrators are able to install and customize it, and more software and hardware are designed to be

compatible with it. After a point, it becomes a de facto standard. This, of course, has happened with

many Microsoft programs and its Windows and NT operating systems.

When this is teamed with high fixed costs/almost no variable cost (the cost of reproducing a

set of diskettes or a CD-ROM is very low, and the cost of software distribution over the Internet is

almost nothing) you have enormous returns to scale. (Exhibit 7) shows the shape of the customer

value and average cost curves plotted against unit volume. After they cross, there is a great range in

9-999-003 Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order

pricing discretion, and a wonderful opportunity for ever-greater profits. As unit volume increases,

costs go down, customer value goes up, and profits skyrocket. Of course, it becomes increasingly

difficult for a competitor to even survive let alone catch up. The walls of what otherwise might be

defensible niches are breached by the overwhelming growth in customer value and the almost

negligible incremental cost. This process, of course, has made Bill Gates apparently the richest