SOURCE: HBS_Leader's Guide to Corporate Culture.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture
TOPIC: Organizational Culture Management
SUMMARY: The article discusses how leaders can effectively manage and shape their organization's corporate culture to improve performance.
KEYWORDS: corporate culture, organizational change, cultural profile, cultural alignment
---

REPRINT R1801B

PUBLISHED IN HBR

JANUARY–FEBRUARY 2018

ARTICLE COLLECTION

The Leader’s Guide to

Corporate Culture

Changing your organization’s culture can improve its

performance. Here’s how to do that.

by Boris Groysberg, Jeremiah Lee, Jesse Price, and J. Yo-Jud Cheng

What’s Your Organization’s Cultural Profile?

A worksheet and questions to get you started

How to Shape Your Culture

Steps for setting an aspirational target

Convergence Matters

When employees’ views of the culture align, engagement and customer

orientation benefit.

Context, Conditions, and Culture

Geographic region and industry are key external factors to consider;

strategy, leadership, and organizational design are key internal ones.

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

SPOTLIGHT THE LEADER’S GUIDE TO CORPORATE CULTURE

The Leader’s

Guide to

Corporate

Culture

HOW TO MANAGE THE EIGHT CRITICAL

ELEMENTS OF ORGANIZATIONAL LIFE

BY BORIS GROYSBERG, JEREMIAH LEE,

JESSE PRICE, AND J. YO-JUD CHENG

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

2 HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW JANUARY–FEBRcUuAstRoYm e2r0s1e8rvice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

FOR ARTICLE REPRINTS CALL 800-988-0886 OR 617-783-7500, OR VISIT HBR.ORG

Strategy and culture are among

the primary levers at top leaders’

disposal in their never-ending quest to

maintain organizational viability and

effectiveness. Strategy offers a formal

logic for the company’s goals and

orients people around them. Culture

expresses goals through values and

beliefs and guides activity through

shared assumptions and group norms.

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additiJoAnNalU cAopRiYe–sF.EBRUARY 2018 HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW 3

SPOTLIGHT THE LEADER’S GUIDE TO CORPORATE CULTURE

Strategy provides clarity and focus for achieve change and build organizations that by Edgar Schein, Shalom Schwartz, Geert

collective action and decision making. It re- thrive in even the most trying times. Hofstede, and other leading scholars, we have

lies on plans and sets of choices to mobilize identified four generally accepted attrib utes:

people and can often be enforced by both Shared. Culture is a group phenomenon.

DEFINING CULTURE

concrete rewards for achieving goals and It cannot exist solely within a single person,

consequences for failing to do so. Ideally, Culture is the tacit social order of an orga- nor is it simply the average of individual char-

it also incorporates adaptive elements that nization: It shapes attitudes and behaviors acteristics. It resides in shared behaviors, val-

can scan and analyze the external envi- in wide-ranging and durable ways. Cultural ues, and assumptions and is most commonly

ronment and sense when changes are re- norms define what is encouraged, discour- experienced through the norms and expecta-

quired to maintain continuity and growth. aged, accepted, or rejected within a group. tions of a group—that is, the unwritten rules.

Leadership goes hand-in-hand with strat- When properly aligned with personal val- Pervasive. Culture permeates multiple

egy formation, and most leaders under- ues, drives, and needs, culture can unleash levels and applies very broadly in an organi-

stand the fundamentals. Culture, however, tremendous amounts of energy toward a zation; sometimes it is even conflated with

is a more elusive lever, because much of it is shared purpose and foster an organization’s the organization itself. It is manifest in col-

anchored in unspoken behaviors, mindsets, capacity to thrive. lective behaviors, physical environments,

and social patterns. Culture can also evolve flexibly and au- group rituals, visible symbols, stories, and

For better and worse, culture and leader- tonomously in response to changing oppor- legends. Other aspects of culture are un-

ship are inextricably linked. Founders and tunities and demands. Whereas strategy is seen, such as mindsets, motivations, un-

influential leaders often set new cultures typically determined by the C-suite, culture spoken assumptions, and what David Rooke

in motion and imprint values and assump- can fluidly blend the intentions of top lead- and William Torbert refer to as “action log-

tions that persist for decades. Over time an ers with the knowledge and experiences of ics” (mental models of how to interpret and

organization’s leaders can also shape cul- frontline employees. respond to the world around you).

ture, through both conscious and uncon- The academic literature on the subject is Enduring. Culture can direct the thoughts

scious actions (sometimes with unintended vast. Our review of it revealed many formal and actions of group members over the long

consequences). The best leaders we have definitions of organizational culture and a term. It develops through critical events in

observed are fully aware of the multiple variety of models and methods for assessing the collective life and learning of a group. Its

cultures within which they are embedded, it. Numerous processes exist for creating and endurance is explained in part by the attrac-

can sense when change is required, and can changing it. Agreement on specifics is sparse tion-selection-attrition model first introduced

deftly influence the process. across these definitions, models, and meth- by Benjamin Schneider: People are drawn to

Unfortunately, in our experience it is far ods, but through a synthesis of seminal work organizations with characteristics similar to

more common for leaders seeking to build their own; organizations are more likely

high-performing organizations to be con- to select individuals who seem to “fit in”; and

founded by culture. Indeed, many either over time those who don’t fit in tend to leave.

let it go unmanaged or relegate it to the HR Thus culture becomes a self-reinforcing so-

function, where it becomes a secondary con- cial pattern that grows increasingly resistant

cern for the business. They may lay out de- to change and outside influences.

tailed, thoughtful plans for strategy and ex- Implicit. An important and often over-

ecution, but because they don’t understand looked aspect of culture is that despite its

culture’s power and dynamics, their plans go subliminal nature, people are effectively