SOURCE: HBS_The Whys and Hows of Feedback_Boris Groysberg.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Employee Performance Evaluation
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for conducting effective employee performance reviews, including setting the right environment, preparing relevant materials, and addressing common biases.
KEYWORDS: performance review, feedback, employee development, bias, emotional preparation
---

plans and goals. Are there areas where you feel

unsure of your own performance? Where could

you benefit from additional resources or

development?

Reserve a private space for the session. Unless

there are compelling reasons to clo so, avoid

giving feedback in public—it makes criticism

harder to take, and does not make praise any

more valued. If possible, allow 30 minutes or so solo time for

reflection after the session.

Pull together relevant paperwork or data—peer

assessments, client ratings, whatever metrics are

used. The recipient should know what materials

will be included in the review process.

Do not attempt to be comprehensive. Grote

recommends writing down three successes and

two areas for improvement, or else developing a

single message for an employee to take away.*!

Check yourself for biases

One of the most common biases in the psychological literature is the actor-observer effect, or the

tendency to perceive one’s own behavior as caused by external factors, and the behavior of others

as caused by their dispositions. (In other words, J am using my cell phone inappropriately because

Tam having an emergency; you are using yours inappropriately because you are rude.) Feedback

givers and recipients should both be aware of this bias and think about what external factors could

have contributed to performance. Review materials with a particular eye for specific, behavioral

examples of effective or ineffective behaviors.”

Giver Recipient

Make an active effort to disregard performance Try to assess fairly how circumstances

reports from previous years. Once an employee contributed to your performance. It is tempting

41 Grote, 2011.

42 Pearce, 2012,

12

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbreworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback

416-013

(or anyone) has been mentally categorized, it can

be difficult to perceive behavioral changes, Ask

yourself; What would I think of this employee if

I interviewed him or her today?®

Before a performance appraisal, think about the job

itself, rather than the person in it. What are the

most important job requirements? What are the

main goals of the position? Note that these

requirements and goals may change over time.“4

to blame circumstances for poor performance,

but it can also be a temptation to attribute good

performance to luck ora general uptick in

business, if you have a difficult time taking

credit for accomplishments because of

personality or cultural factors (such as gender

norms).

Prepare emotionally

Giver

For those conversations in which non-performance

is at issue, some suggest rehearsing what you will

say, as a confrontation over a difficult topic can

often lead to an emotional response,

If the employee begins to talk about non-work

difficulties — money, children, financial

problems — redirect the conversation

immediately, Sympathy can be expressed and, if

necessary, the employee can be recommended to

an assistance program, but do not let the

appraisal turn into a counseling session.

If people get emotional, wait it out. If necessary,

reschedule, but do not avoid the feedback

session. “Do not interrupt very upset people

with rational observations or analysis; this will

just further enrage them... Do not let emotional

outbursts lead to an avoidance of

accountability.”

Recipient

Spend some time considering the learning

orientation mindset. Recognize that this is an

evaluation of your performance, not your

personal worth.

If desired, do some breathing or meditation

exercises before the session. Interpersonal

tension can cause the primitive brain to react

with a “flight or fight” response; calming that

brain in advance may be a wise move for the

emotionally reactive, or people anticipating

criticism .4¢

Source: Compiled by casewriters.

®R, Buda, RR. Reilly, J.W. Smither, “The Influence of Indirect Knowledge of Prior Performance on Evaluations of Present

Performance: The Generalizability of Assimilation Effects,” Journal of Psychology and the Behavioral Sciences 6 (1991); 89-99.

+4 Grote, pp. 97-98.

45 Pearce, p. 94.

46 Herbert Benson and William Proctor, Relavation Revolution: Enhancing Your Personal Health Through the Science and Genetics of

Mind-Body Healing (New York: Scribner, 2010,): Rimma Teper and Michael Inzlicht, “Mindful Acceptance Dampens

Neuroaffective Reactions to External and Rewarding Performance Feedback,” Emotion 14 (2014): 105-114,

13

This document Is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbreworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness. org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

416-013

The Whys and Hows of Feedback

During the session

Giver

Don’t give employees evaluation forms that were

completed before the session began, or it will seem

that the discussion was mere theater (although

providing objective data is desirable).

Give the feedback with objective performance data,

tying performance back to established goals,

performance measures, or whatever other metrics

exist. Remember, a feedback session is not about

merely critiquing one employee's performance, but

about linking that performance to team,

departmental, and organizational goals. All of

these dots should be connected so that the

employee sees the relevance of what is being said.

Listen actively and watch for the recipient's

reaction (body language and facial expressions

convey reactions as well). Summarize what you

hear in any reactions.

Discuss next steps, both positive and negative

consequences of behaviors, issues surrounding

non-improvement, and opportunities for future

growth. Ask what the employee needs in order to

improve—practice? Coaching? A stretch

assignment? The chance to delegate less-critical

responsibilities to put more effort into the high-

value activities? Summarize what you hear.

Together, discuss the feedback and agree on next

steps and conclusions of the exchange. If you

cannot agree, agree to table the discussion and

either escalate or revisit it at a later date.

Close the session and thank the recipient for their

time and work in preparing for it.

Recipient

Ask for clarification and/or elaboration on

anything specific in the feedback as necessary.

The feedback recipient should ask for examples

of how his or her performance could have been

more effective. Don’t be afraid to probe or let the

feedback giver know that you can handle

straight talk. If you are unclear, ask again.