SOURCE: HBS_Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Performance-Based Pricing
SUMMARY: Performance-based pricing offers advantages of alignment, insurance, and improved communication between buyers and sellers.
KEYWORDS: performance-based pricing, buyer-seller alignment, risk mitigation, communication effectiveness
---

share in the cost and design improvements it was able to create.

Advantages

One advantage of performance-based pricing is the often-mentioned alignment that can be

achieved between the buyer’s goals and the seller’s goals. But, that is only part of the story. There

are two other major advantages. Performance-based pricing is insurance. It insures that the seller

does not undercharge the buyer. When the final performance of the service or product is in doubt, the

performance-based arrangement guarantees that as the seller provides more, it is paid more.

Significantly, the buyer also receives insurance that it will not overpay at both the institutional and the

individual level. No person or organization wants to pay more for a product or service than it is

worth. Again, when performance delivery is in doubt, performance-based pricing enables the buyer

to pay only for the amount of performance that is actually delivered on a measurable basis. Most

important, the individuals responsible for the actual purchase decision do not want to absorb the

career risk of overpaying. In our personal lives, if we overpay for a product, we suffer some marginal

consequence. In business, it can literally end the job security of a procurement executive. For its

insurance role, performance-based pricing creates a greater sense of “fairness” for both buyer and

seller.

The third benefit may be even more important than the first two. We often see performance-

based pricing in highly uncertain situations, and where both buyer and seller must make complex

tradeoffs among conflicting objectives. Simple contractual arrangements do not force the buyer and

2 My friend Adrian Slywotzky of Mercer Management co-authored the original version of this section.

3 The example is described in detail in “ABB and Ford: Creating Value Through Cooperation” by Sherwood C.

Frey and Michel M. Schlosser, Sloan Management Review, Fall, 1993, pages 65 to 72.

9-999-003 Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order

seller to communicate in-depth to one another. Performance-based pricing arrangements are

generally very intricate. The parties are forced to deal with one another’s limitations, objectives, and

trade-offs. The very process of discussing, in precise detail and with great discipline, these issues

develops “wide-band width” communication between buyer and seller. Each has the opportunity to

precisely present its objectives, and to explain its own issues.

This process of open communication encourages a great degree of buyer/seller cooperation

and coordination, and literally a much broader agreement. More issues are raised and factored into

the high sensitivity problem-solving process. When the two parties involved are buying and selling

committees representing different organizational jurisdictions within their organizations, and perhaps

different levels of management, the necessity for precision and discipline in communication helps the

process within buyer and seller groups as well as between them. It, in fact, leads to better agreements

that provide more value to the buyer and lower cost to the seller as shown in Exhibit 8. Customers

only get what they value and suppliers can reduce costs by removing non-value-added service and

product components.

Applications and Limitations

Performance-based pricing is growing because its economic logic is so powerful, it provides

new opportunities for buyer/seller communication and has been proven in practice. After successful

deployment by credible players (e.g., EDS in systems integration and outsourcing, services such as

waste cleanup and welfare recipient job placement for government agencies, and many advertisers

and advertising agencies), it is clear that the approach is implementable. Even Proctor and Gamble,

the last major consumer packaged goods advertiser to stay with a 15% fee, is moving in this new

direction. It is sometimes a pragmatic pathway to managing risk, uncertainty, and performance for

the long-term benefit of both parties.

Advertising has been a fertile field for performance-based pricing. The September 14, 1998

issue of Advertising Age reports that the percentage of marketers who compensate agencies on

billings (media purchases) dropped from 71% in 1983 to 35% in 1997. The average profit margins of

large agencies furthermore, according to a study by Morgan Anderson Consulting, went from 13% to

about 19%. This demonstrates how profitable performance-based pricing can be. The trend toward

broader agency involvement beyond traditional advertising has made it both possible and appropriate

for the move to a new pricing approach—one that provides the agency with more opportunity in

return for greater risk and broader, more integrated responsibility.

But, performance-based pricing is not for all pricing situations. In fact, it is appropriate in

only a limited number of situations, albeit some very important ones. But, some limited variants can

also be useful. “Point” guarantees such as penalty clauses which involve a discount when delivery is

late are a simple form of performance-based pricing. These are typical in major construction projects.

Performance-based pricing is complicated. As with usage-based pricing and point

guarantees, the actual amount to be paid can not be determined until after delivery, and often even

after usage, of the product or service. Thus, for example, time of day pricing (e.g. restaurant “early

bird” specials or cheaper cinema matinee pricing) does not fit into the performance-based pricing

model. Neither does stratified service pricing such as first class and economy in air travel. This is

similar to product line pricing, and can be considered service line pricing.

Performance-based pricing differs from usage based pricing in that it charges for the quality

of performance as well as the quantity of usage. If the telephone company charged a performance

premium for better sound quality or faster connections as measured in use, these would become

performance-based prices. Both performance-based and usage-based pricing, however, set price after

10

Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order 9-999-003

service/product delivery when the customer value is clear. These are both wonderful examples of

using the pricing approach to clarify customer value and expand the ZOPA between customer value

and cost.

Finally, it is useful to consider the risk embodied in various pricing approaches. Pricing that

is openly based on costs plus a predetermined profit margin, and is often referred to as “time and