SOURCE: HBS_Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Precision Pricing Strategy
SUMMARY: This text discusses how precision pricing can enable suppliers to remove non-value-added components and optimize costs while maintaining customer value.
KEYWORDS: precision pricing, customer value, cost optimization, transaction-specific pricing, product/service line pricing
---

pricing provides the kind of intensive and extensive buyer-seller communication that enables the

Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order 9-999-003

supplier to remove all non-value-added components from their offering to minimize costs while

maintaining or increasing customer value.

When one considers each transaction on its own as is, the opportunities for cost reduction are

numerous. In the past, the complexity of the transaction-specific approach was so great that it

overwhelmed the analysis and delivery tools. But, as computing power decreases in cost and

software grows more sophisticated, the balance is changing. In addition, as opportunities for less

detailed, fine-grained approaches are depleted, the astute competitor is forced to look for these

harder-to-tap opportunities.

Of course, the least attractive opportunity is to work in the already defined ZOPA. This

limits the supplier to a zero-sum game with the customer. Suppliers’ gains are customer losses. Not

an encouraging alternative! The best approach here is to price on a transaction basis so that the zero

sum game in the ZOPA can be varied to meet each customer, prospect, and transaction situation. In

that way, each situation can be considered on its own merits including such concerns as the existing

relationship between buyer and seller, other opportunities for doing business together, and industry

conditions such as the demand/supply balance and its dynamics. Working in the ZOPA is limiting

but sometimes necessary.

XI. APPLYING PROFIT-ORIENTED PRECISION PRICING

There have been thirteen pricing approaches presented here. In this last section, we look at

where each is best applied.

The first two approaches are to understand the customer value you provide, and to clarify

that customer value to the customer. Indeed, these should be the first steps in any and all price

setting programs. They are not simple or easy. They are hard and highly leveraged. But the process

of understanding the customer value you provide will enable you and your team to do a better

marketing and management job in general.

Where possible, the process of clarifying customer value should be separated from price

negotiations. When customers experience both together, as in the typical American automobile

buying process, they lose trust in both. An explicit process of value clarification with a well-trained

salesperson can by itself create significant customer value.

Transition-specific pricing is most appropriate where customer value and cost differ across

transactions, and where buyers do not exchange price information. It works best where buyers place

few, infrequent orders; the supply/demand balance shifts rapidly; and customers can’t easily delay

purchases and/or switch from one product/service to another. Notice how well airline fares meet

these conditions. This explains why it has been applied so universally there.

Product/service line pricing such as first and economy air fares works best when different

market segments have different views of customer value and price. The greater the disparity among

market segments, the greater is the opportunity for this form of pricing.

New pricing metrics (not pricing “by the pound”) is most useful when value differs by

transaction and is not linearly related to the cost of each transaction. It is applicable in a surprisingly

large number of transactions.

Servicizing a product and productizing a service are applicable in many situations. Even

where they do not yield a new pricing approach, the exercise is useful to understanding and clarifying

customer value, and more completely defining the competitive set.

13

9-999-003 Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order

Bundling and unbundling works where the transaction involves a collection of product

and/or service components, or where components can be combined in a single transaction. Knowing

the customer’s usage and acquisition process in detail is critical here.

Performance-based pricing works only on relatively large transactions where performance

is unclear at time of purchase but where the relationship between customer value and delivered

performance is clear. There is an interesting and useful relationship between bundling and the use of

performance-based pricing. As more product and/or service components are bundled together into

one package, the vendor offers a more integrated service/product. This offers the opportunity for the

vendor to accept more sole-source responsibility. And, the broad responsibility that integrates many

piece parts is particularly appropriate for performance-based pricing. Thus, broad bundles are

generally easier to sell with performance-based pricing than are narrow offerings.

Point guarantees, penalties, and incentives are useful where true performance-based

pricing is too complicated, and/or the transaction is too small to justify the necessary communication

and coordination effort. They also limit risk and vendor responsibility.

Usage-based pricing is appropriate where usage can’t be determined at time of purchase but

only at time of delivery and/or use. Telephone service is a fine example. Performance-based pricing;

point guarantees, penalties and incentives; and usage-based pricing all share the important attribute

that the price is set after the product/service is delivered, and the value is clear. Thus, all of these are

applicable when there is uncertainty concerning amount of usage or level of performance, but not the

value of any given usage amount or performance level.

Terms and conditions are almost always worth considering. They make good additions to

many of the other pricing approaches.

Cost reduction is almost always worth considering too. It is often useful in conjunction with

unbundling and/or performance-based pricing. In both of these approaches, the vendor gains enough

knowledge to remove superfluous cost elements that add no customer value.

Pricing within an established zone of possible agreement (ZOPA) is a last resort when the

ZOPA cannot be expanded. But, it works best in conjunction with transaction-based pricing.

The new pricing menu is full, but it begins with a strong understanding of customer value and

the ability to demonstrate that value to the customer. The variations evolve in many ways, but the

foundation in customer value endures.

14

Precision Pricing for Profit in the New Worid Order 9-999-003

APPENDIX A

THE FALL OF COST-PLUS PRICING

The fastest way to commoditize a product or service is with cost-plus pricing. Cost-plus