SOURCE: HBS_How The Growth Outliers Do It_Rita Gunther McGrath.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Corporate Growth Strategy
SUMMARY: This text analyzes the challenges of achieving steady, long-term growth for large companies and identifies key traits of the rare 'growth outliers' that have defied the odds.
KEYWORDS: corporate growth, steady growth, growth outliers, performance analysis, business strategy
---

Outliers

Do it

Few companies manage to

prosper over the long term.

Those that do are both more

stable and more innovative

_ ___. than their competition.

oO ___ by Rita Gunther McGrath

teady, predictable growth is what ev-

ery big company strives for and what

investors prize above all else. Recently

some colleagues and I conducted re-

search to find out just how difficult it

is to achieve. To start, we asked a simple question:

How many publicly traded companies with a mar-

ket capitalization of at least US$1 billion grew by

5% each year for five years ending with 2009? We

combed the enormous database of Capital IQ, (We

selected the 5% threshold because global annual

GDP growth averaged about 6% during that period.

And note that we were looking for steady perfor-

mance, not compound annual growth.) The answer

surprised us: Only 8% of the 4,793 companies in our

sample grew their revenues by at least 5% year after

year, and only 4% achieved a net income growth of

at least 5% in each of the five years.

SOR

sh

Ke

E

¥

Fas Cee

oy

Loe

Oy

/

HOW THE GROWTH OUTLIERS DO IT

Thinking that perhaps we’d chosen an unfair

period, given that the Great Recession started in

2008, we repeated the study for the previous five

years. The numbers were higher—15% and 7%, re-

spectively—but the odds still seemed to be stacked

against steady growth.

We then wondered what the results would look

like if we did a 10-year scan. The answer: Only 10 of

the 2,347 companies that qualified across that entire

period grew their net income by 5% in all 10 years,

and only five grew both revenues and net income

every year.

The contrast between what investors and observ-

ers expect and what the vast majority of companies

deliver struck us as important. The data suggest a

need to rethink our assumptions about corporate

performance, Steady, consistent growth is difficult

to achieve even at modest rates, never mind by

the double digits that corporate leaders are fond of

promising, (And no “normal” period in which to as-

sess company performance seems to exist: Any five-

year period we could have chosen included unex-

pected events in the economy and the environment

that would have caused some among our sample to

drop out.) We recognize, of course, that luck plays

a part in strategic success and~~as some advertise-

ments caution in disclaimers~that past success does

not predict future performance. However, the outli-

ers we found—those that defied the odds by achiev-

ing steady growth for 10 years running—turned out

to have interesting traits in common, some predict-

able and some surprising.

What the Outliers Are Not

The companies revealed by our study (see the ex-

hibit “The Growth Outliers”) don’t match up well

with some conventional ideas about growth, One

school of thought in strategy says that a company’s

growth rate will be determined largely by the indus-

try it’s in. This didn’t seem to hold. Our outliers are

in wildly different industries, including pharmaceu-

ticals, beer, construction, and banking. All outper-

formed their industry. Moreover, most of them are in

very competitive industries, without the protections

that patents or trade secrets provide.

Similarly, we tend to assume that the larger a

company gets, the harder it is to sustain growth.

That didn’t hold, either: The outliers were not small

relative to the full pool of companies we analyzed.

By number of employees, the largest is Actividades

de Construccién y Servicios (ACS), a Spanish con-

112 Harvard Business Review January-February 2012

struction company, with nearly 140,000 people. The

smallest, FactSet Research Systems, a U.S.-based

financial research company, employs more than

4,000. Market cap also varied widely above our

$1 billion threshold.

We might have expected to find consistently

higher growth rates in fast-growing markets, but

that wasn’t true, either, No single geographic region

dominates the outlier group, which represents both

high-growth emerging economies and mature econ-

omies. Nor did the degree to which the companies

had globalized seem to be a factor. Although Infosys

and ACS both planned from the beginning to focus

on overseas opportunities, Yahoo Japan conducts

business almost entirely in Japan, HDFC Bank oper-

ates only in India, and Atmos Energy focuses on the

U.S. market. Tsingtao Brewery earns 50% of its reve-

nue from exports, but it didn’t venture outside China

to manufacture until 2007. Krka Group is mainly a

regional player, manufacturing generic pharmaceu-

ticals throughout Eastern Europe.

Conventional wisdom also suggests that growth

slows as companies age. But we saw no such effect

in this group. More than half the outliers were estab-

lished in their current form after 1980, but the two

oldest date from 1903 and 1906. All the companies

have performed well throughout major shifts in

globalization, underlying technology, and business

practices.

One might think that companies started by entre-

preneurs would have an edge, but that seems untrue

as well. Although two of our outliers (Infosys and

FactSet) were indeed start-ups, with founders who

maintained a strong presence throughout our study

period, others (Indra Sistemas, ACS, Atmos, Krka)

were the product of mergers and consolidations, and

still others (Cognizant, HDIF'C, Yahoo Japan) were

spun out of or funded by existing organizations.

Once we’d established that exogenous factors

such as industry, geographical position, and age

didn’t explain the outliers’ growth rates, we turned

to the next, more qualitative phase of our project.

We attempted to learn what these companies did

have in common, using archival research and inter-

views. In addition, we compared each one with its

top three competitors—according to Hoover’s, to

avoid selection bias—to determine whether differ-

ences in competitive behavior might offer some ex-

planations. The outliers turned out to share a lot of

practices that, although unsurprising in themselves,

add up to an intriguing, counterintuitive profile:

Only a tiny percent-

age of large companies

reliably grow the bot-

Those that do share

certain characteristics.