SOURCE: HBS_The Whys and Hows of Feedback_Boris Groysberg.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Performance Feedback
SUMMARY: This note explores the importance of performance feedback in the workplace, the factors that make it difficult, and guidelines for effective feedback practices.
KEYWORDS: performance review, feedback practice, workplace communication
---

tame HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL

9-416-013

AUGUST 11, 2015

BORIS GROYSBERG

ROBIN ABRAHAMS

The Whys and Hows of Feedback

Does the phrase “performance review” give you the jitters? Do the jitters increase when you're the

one giving the review? Many managers and executives find it easier to give lip service to the

importance of job-performance feedback than to actually critique, praise, or advise their direct reports.

Feedback on job performance is essential to success at every level. However, getting and receiving

valuable feedback —never an easy task—has been complicated by contemporary business trends. The

churning, project-based 215-century workplace has made it harder to form the kind of long-term,

trusting relationships that make criticism easier to swallow. “Boundaryless careers”! and the rapid

pace of change in many industries can make it hard to set performance metrics. Globalization and

diversity mean that workers may have cognitive biases or different communication styles that

complicate efforts to give accurate feedback. A quick-changing, low-loyalty work environment makes

valuable performance feedback both more necessary, and more difficult, to give and receive.

This note will make the case for feedback as an ongoing practice, examine the factors that can make

giving feedback difficult, and offer a guide for both givers and recipients of feedback.

Feedback: Why It Matters

Feedback is important. Humans are a profoundly social species with an innate need to understand

our social environment, know what other people think of us, and compare our abilities with those of

others. The desire for feedback is a basic part of human nature, in and out of the workplace.

Within the workplace, feedback has an impact not only on employees’ task and job performance,

but on their organizational commitment, understanding of their company’s goals and mission,

workplace relationships, morale, motivation, trust, job satisfaction, and more. However—and

empirical research backs up what many managers have suspected or feared — feedback can affect all

of these things positively or negatively.

' Michael B. Arthur, “The Boundaryless Career: A New Perspective for Organizational Inquiry,” Journal of Organizational

Behavior 15 (1994): 295-306; Douglas T. Hall, Careers in and out of Organizations (Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 2002).

Professor Boris Groysberg and Research Associate Robin Abrahams prepared this note as the basis for class discussion. This note is a part of the

YPO/OPM research project and derives from a working paper, “The Whys and Hows of Feedback,” prepared by Professor Boris Groysberg and

Robin Abrahams.

Copyright © 2015 President and Fellows of Harvard College. To order copies or request permission to reproduce malerials, call 1-800-545-7685,

write Harvard Business School Publishing, Boston, MA 02163, or go to www.hbsp.harvard.edu. This publication may not be digitized,

photocopied, or otherwise reproduced, posted, or transmitted, without the permission of Harvard Business School,

This dacument is authorized far use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbreworld.com), Copying or posting is an infringement of capyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.arg or

800-989-0886 for additional copies.

416-013 The Whys and Hows of Feedback

Feedback can improve performance — but it can also leave performance unchanged, or even make

it worse.? This can be the case whether the feedback is negative or positive, and regardless of how

well it is delivered. As one article notes, “[I]ndividuals confronted with negative feedback indicating

a discrepancy between their goals and performance may adjust their goals to be in line with their

performance rather than attempting to bring their performance in line with their goals. Likewise,

following positive feedback, some individuals may choose to increase their goal, whereas others may

lower their sights and ‘coast.’”%

Feedback not only has the potential to affect job performance for good or ill, but the quality of work

relationships as well. Negative feedback can reduce commitment to the organization and inspire what

some researchers call “CWB,” or counterproductive work behaviors. Bad feedback outcomes can lead

employees to experience greater stress, feel threatened at work, and to see coworkers as competitors

rather than colleagues. On the other hand, good reactions to feedback are related to employees’

likelihood of pursuing further development activities. In short, offering feedback is rightly perceived as

a somewhat risky activity, the end results of which are not entirely under the control of the feedback

giver.

Why Is Giving Good Feedback So Difficult?

The most fundamental reason is that people get defensive. Feedback can be threatening to the

ego—even positive feedback can create unpleasant levels of self-consciousness, This fact appears to

be a cultural universal. The most important thing that both feedback givers and recipients can do,

therefore, is to work to reduce this defensiveness and how to do so is the primary focus of this note.

However, psychological discomfort will always be an inherent feature of the process.

Another reason giving effective feedback is difficult is that there are many aspects to feedback.

Researchers have studied different types of feedback, mechanisms for delivering feedback, various

feedback-related differences in corporate and national cultures, and individual factors of the givers and

receivers. All of these factors interrelate, which means that there is no one universal best way to give

feedback, only an awareness of the dynamics that might come into play. It may be impossible for a

feedback giver to get all the variables of a given feedback session “right.” However, because of the ego-

threatening nature of criticism, people who are motivated to deflect or dismiss negative feedback will

focus on whichever aspect is “wrong” to call the accuracy and fairness of the criticism into question.

Finally, feedback itself is only the beginning. Even when people are able to lower their shields

and hear feedback, there is no guarantee that they will act on it. An employee will not make efforts to

use and improve from feedback unless they have been given clear direction on how to improve (“Do

it better” is not enough!). Employees must also believe that they can improve, and that their efforts to

do so will be meaningfully rewarded. If these things are not the case, improvement will not occur.

Do We Have to Give Feedback If It’s So Risky?