SOURCE: HBS_The Whys and Hows of Feedback_Boris Groysberg.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Feedback Management
SUMMARY: This text provides guidance on how to effectively receive and respond to feedback, including seeking clarification, actively listening, and reflecting on the feedback received.
KEYWORDS: feedback, performance improvement, professional development, active listening, self-reflection
---

anything specific in the feedback as necessary.

The feedback recipient should ask for examples

of how his or her performance could have been

more effective. Don’t be afraid to probe or let the

feedback giver know that you can handle

straight talk. If you are unclear, ask again.

Listen actively; try to listen rather than explain.

Catch and curtail any defensiveness. Listen to

understand: avoid making excuses or denying

the points mace, Remember, it is your

manager’s opinion of your job performance that

matters, If you don’t understand the success

criteria, ask.

During the session, acknowledge feedback with

ongoing verbal and nonverbal reinforcement.

If you have ideas for resources that would help

your performance, mention them.

Summarize what you heard and what you

understand the feedback to mean,

Thank the feedback giver for their time and

effort.

Source: Compiled by casewriters.

14

‘This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbreworld.com). Copying or pasting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback

416-013

After the session

Giver

Follow up on any action items—setting up a

subsequent session, enrolling the employee in

development opportunities, whatever was decided

upon. It is important to model the behavior of

taking the feedback back into the work

environment instead of closing the door on the

session.

When some time has passed, ask for feedback

about the session itself, What was helpful? What

could you improve on as a feedback-giver?

Be patient! Sometimes, feedback may make things

worse briefly, as people become more self

conscious or have to think more about task that

had become somewhat automatic.

Source: Compiled by casewriters.

Conclusion

Receiver

Do not act on the feedback immediately. Instead,

take some time to reflect on it, ideally in writing.

Jot down the major points of the session

immediately after meeting (or during the

meeting if possible), revisiting the notes after a

rief reflection period of a few days to process

the information further.47

You may find that there are things you are

unclear about. A major motive for seeking

eedback can be lack of clarity about earlier

eedback, so you are not alone! Schedule a

follow-up session if necessary.

Decide on what next steps you will take in

response to the feedback, and communicate

these to the feedback giver and whoever else is

appropriate.

Feedback is essential to psychological wellbeing and invaluable to job performance and

professional development. Feedback is also inevitable—the social human brain can interpret nearly

any interaction as referring to one’s own behavior~and hence, should be intentional. Giving and

receiving feedback, though it may feel uncomfortable, is a lifetime skill to develop and hone.

47 Frederick Anseel, Filip Lievens, and Eveline Schollaert, “Reflection as a Strategy to Enhance Task Performance After

Feedback,” Organizational Behavior and Human Processes 1 (2009): 23-35,

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

15

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner {ryan@bbreworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or