SOURCE: HBS_The CEO of Aotomattic on Holding Auditions to Build a Strong Team.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Hiring and Talent Management
SUMMARY: The CEO of Automattic discusses the company's unique hiring process that focuses on tryouts and output-based work rather than traditional resume screening and 9-to-5 workdays.
KEYWORDS: hiring, talent management, tryouts, output-based work, remote work
---

Welcome to the new HBR.org. Here’s what’s new. Here’s an FAQ.

HIRING

The CEO of Automattic on

Holding “Auditions” to Builda

Strong Team

by Matt Mullenweg

FROM THE APRIL 2014 ISSUE -

PHOTOGRAPHY: LIZ CARUANA

The Idea: In its early years, Automattic relied on traditional résumé screening and

interviews to do its hiring. But over time Mullenweg came to focus on tryouts, in which

final candidates are paid to spend several weeks working on a project.

Automattic employs 230 people. We’re located in 170 cities all over the world. Although ‘we: °

maintain an office in San Francisco that functions like a coworking space, most of our

employees work somewhere other than our home base. Some are even nomads, traveling

from place to place and couch to couch.

This might seem like a recipe for disaster—low productivity, poor management, and abuse.

But Automattic is profitable and fast-growing. With an applicant-screening process that

gives candidates genuine job responsibilities and relationships, we can hire smarter, retain

strong employees longer, and reduce terminations and turnover. The key? Tryouts.

Where 9 to 5 Fails

It all starts with the way we think about work. In my experience, people in lots of

companies are just going through the motions. If someone shows up in the morning

dressed appropriately and isn’t drunk or asleep at his desk, we assume he’s working. If he’s

making spreadsheets and to-do lists, we assume he’s working really hard. Unfortunately,

none of this gets at what an employee actually creates during the day. It’s possible (and,

sadly, not uncommon) for someone to sit at a desk for eight hours, moving papers and

sending e-mail, without producing any results.

The CEO of Automattic on Holding “Auditions” to Build a Strong Team

At Automattic we focus on what you create, not whether you live up to some ideal of the

“good employee.” We measure work according to outputs. I don’t care what hours you

work. I don’t care if you sleep late or if you pick upa child at school in the afternoon. I don’t

care if you spend the afternoon on the golf course and then work from 2 to 5 AM. What do

you actually produce? Many people create great things without sitting at a desk in an office

all day, including all the people at Automattic. (One employee recently wrote a book about

his time with us. Its title—The Year Without Pants—should tell you something about our

lack of emphasis on professional dress.) We work in open-source software, which is a

decentralized product, so uncoupling our workforce from the 9-to-5 workday makes sense.

We can do it well because we have the right team.

We used to hire people the way most other companies do. We’d screen résumés and

conduct interviews. Sometimes we asked candidates brainteaser-style questions, as

Microsoft and Google famously did. We focused on their past experiences and paid special

’ attention to what other start-ups they’d worked for. A candidate might interview with five

employees, and we’d all take him or her out to lunch. We invested a lot of energy in the

process, and we believed we were being as rigorous as we could.

Inevitably, some of those hires didn’t work out, which was a big disappointment. When you

hire someone, you see all the potential in the world. If things break down, you have to do

some soul-searching. Is it my fault? Is it something I did as a manager? How did we miss the

less-than-positive signs? Managers at other companies appeared not to care, assuming that

it was normal for a third of new hires to wash out. But it seemed so inefficient.

As we considered the situation, it became clear that we were being influenced by aspects of

an interview—such as someone’s manner of speaking or behavior in a restaurant—that have

no bearing on how a candidate will actually perform. Some people are amazing

interviewees and charm everyone they talk to. But if the job isn’t going to involve charming

others, their interview skills don’t predict how well they’ll do as employees. Just like work,

interviews can be “performed” without real productivity.

Tryouts Trump Interviews

The more we thought about why some hires succeeded and some didn’t, the more we

recognized that there is no substitute for working alongside someone in the trenches. So

we gradually changed our approach. I still personally review most of the résumés we

receive, and we screen out about 85% of candidates immediately, for lack of relevant

experience, lack of technical skills, or mistakes on the application. (One thing I don’t pay

much attention to is education: I’m a University of Houston dropout, so it would be

hypocritical of me to obsess over where or whether someone went to college.) Candidates

then have initial interviews, usually via online chat.

Since March 2013 Automattic has received

314 applications, interviewed 155

candidates, run 94 tryouts, and hired 38

people

The most significant shift we’ve made is requiring every final candidate to work with us for

three to eight weeks on a contract basis. Candidates do real tasks alongside the people they

would actually be working with if they had the job. They can work at night or on weekends,

so they don’t have to leave their current jobs; most spend 10 to 20 hours a week working

with Automattic, although that’s flexible. (Some people take a week’s vacation in order to

focus on the tryout, which is another viable option.) The goal is not to have them finish a

product or do a set amount of work; it’s to allow us to quickly and efficiently assess

whether this would be a mutually beneficial relationship. They can size up Automattic

while we evaluate them.

Paying them for their efforts is important; this isn’t about getting work done free. Originally

we tried to set hourly pay rates based on what they might earn if they were hired, but that

became too complicated. We were almost negotiating what we would pay someone who