SOURCE: HBS_Leader's Guide to Corporate Culture.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture
TOPIC: Corporate Culture Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses how culture can be managed, and identifies eight distinct culture styles based on two primary dimensions: people interactions and response to change.
KEYWORDS: corporate culture, culture management, organizational dynamics, culture styles, cultural dimensions
---

tailed, thoughtful plans for strategy and ex- Implicit. An important and often over-

ecution, but because they don’t understand looked aspect of culture is that despite its

culture’s power and dynamics, their plans go subliminal nature, people are effectively

off the rails. As someone once said, culture hardwired to recognize and respond to it

eats strategy for breakfast. instinctively. It acts as a kind of silent lan-

It doesn’t have to be that way. Our work guage. Shalom Schwartz and E.O. Wilson

suggests that culture can, in fact, be man- have shown through their research how evo-

aged. The first and most important step lead- lutionary processes shaped human capacity;

ers can take to maximize its value and mini- because the ability to sense and respond to

mize its risks is to become fully aware of how culture is universal, certain themes should

it works. By integrating findings from more be expected to recur across the many mod-

than 100 of the most commonly used social els, definitions, and studies in the field. That

As someone

and behavioral models, we have identified is exactly what we have discovered in our

eight styles that distinguish a culture and research over the past few decades.

once said,

can be measured. (We gratefully acknowl-

edge the rich history of cultural studies—

EIGHT DISTINCT CULTURE STYLES

going all the way back to the earliest explora- culture eats

tions of human nature—on which our work Our review of the literature for commonal-

builds.) Using this framework, leaders can strategy for ities and central concepts revealed two pri-

model the impact of culture on their busi- mary dimensions that apply regardless of or-

ness and assess its alignment with strategy. breakfast. ganization type, size, industry, or geography:

We also suggest how culture can help them people interactions and response to change.

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

4 HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW JANUARY–FEBRcUusAtRomY e2r0s1e8rvice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

.DEVRESER

STHGIR

LLA

.NOITAROPROC

GNIHSILBUP

LOOHCS

SSENISUB

DRAVRAH

7102

©

THGIRYPOC

FOR ARTICLE REPRINTS CALL 800-988-0886 OR 617-783-7500, OR VISIT HBR.ORG

INTEGRATED CULTURE THE FRAMEWORK

Understanding a company’s culture requires

determining where it falls along these two

dimensions.

People interactions. An organization’s On the basis of decades of experience analyzing organizations, executives,

orientation toward people interactions and and employees, we developed a rigorous, comprehensive model to

coordination will fall on a spectrum from

identify the key attrib utes of both group culture and individual leadership

highly independent to highly interdepen-

styles. Eight characteristics emerge when we map cultures along two

dent. Cultures that lean toward the former

place greater value on autonomy, individual dimensions: how people interact (independence to interdependence)

action, and competition. Those that lean and their response to change (flexibility to stability). The relative salience

toward the latter emphasize integration,

of these eight styles differs across organizations, though nearly all are

managing relationships, and coordinating

strongly characterized by results and caring.

group effort. People in such cultures tend to

collaborate and to see success through the The spatial relationships are important. Proximate styles, such as

lens of the group. safety and order, or learning and enjoyment, will coexist more easily

Response to change. Whereas some

than styles that are far apart on the chart, such as authority and purpose,

cultures emphasize stability—prioritizing

or safety and learning. Achieving a culture of authority often means

consistency, predictability, and mainte-

nance of the status quo—others emphasize gaining the advantages (and living with the disadvantages) of that culture

flexibility, adaptability, and receptiveness but missing out on the advantages (and avoiding the disadvantages)

to change. Those that favor stability tend

of a culture of purpose.

to follow rules, use control structures such

as seniority-based staffing, reinforce hier-

archy, and strive for efficiency. Those that

favor flexibility tend to prioritize innova- FLEXIBILITY

tion, openness, diversity, and a longer-term

orientation. (Kim Cameron, Robert Quinn,

and Robert Ernest are among the research-

LEARNING PURPOSE

ers who employ similar dimensions in their

culture frameworks.)

By applying this fundamental insight

about the dimensions of people interactions

and response to change, we have identified

eight styles that apply to both organizational

cultures and individual leaders. Researchers

at Spencer Stuart (including two of this ENJOYMENT CARING

article’s authors) have interdependently

studied and refined this list of styles across

both levels over the past two decades.

Caring focuses on relationships and mu-

tual trust. Work environments are warm, col- HOW PEOPLE INTERACT

laborative, and welcoming places where peo- RESULTS ORDER

ple help and support one another. Employees

are united by loyalty; leaders emphasize sin-

cerity, teamwork, and positive relationships.

Purpose is exemplified by idealism and

altruism. Work environments are tolerant,

compassionate places where people try to do

good for the long-term future of the world.

AUTHORITY SAFETY

Employees are united by a focus on sus-

tainability and global communities; leaders

emphasize shared ideals and contributing

to a greater cause.

Learning is characterized by exploration,

expansiveness, and creativity. Work envi- STABILITY

ronments are inventive and open-minded

places where people spark new ideas and

explore alternatives. Employees are united SOURCE SPENCER STUART

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additiJoAnNalU cAopRiYe–sF.EBRUARY 2018 HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW 5

ECNEDNEPEDNI

EGNAHC

OT

DNOPSER

ELPOEP

WOH

INTERDEPENDENCE

SPOTLIGHT THE LEADER’S GUIDE TO CORPORATE CULTURE

INTEGRATED CULTURE LEADER STATEMENTS methodical places where people tend to play

by the rules and want to fit in. Employees

Top leaders and founders often express cultural sentiments within the are united by cooperation; leaders empha-

size shared procedures and time-honored

public domain, either intentionally or unintentionally. Such statements

customs.

can provide important clues to how these leaders are thinking about

These eight styles fit into our inte-

and leading their organizations’ cultures. grated culture framework (see the exhibit

“Integrated Culture: The Framework”) ac-

cording to the degree to which they reflect