SOURCE: HBS_How The Growth Outliers Do It_Rita Gunther McGrath.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Growth Strategy, Corporate Culture, Leadership
SUMMARY: The text examines the strategies and practices of 'growth outliers' - companies that have sustained steady growth over time, including maintaining stable customer relationships, leadership, and corporate values that enable innovation.
KEYWORDS: growth strategy, corporate culture, leadership stability, client relationships, innovation
---

in 1997 by a former CEO, leveraging efficiency in its

regulated business and driving growth in its unreg-

ulated businesses. FactSet’s strategy statement has

not changed at all since the company’s founding in

1978, despite radical shifts in underlying technol-

ogies and an explosion of information relevant to

key clients.

They have a reliable customer base. Outli-

ers’ relationships with their clients are remarkably

“€ver get the feeling you've done

this job in a previous economy?”

116 Harvard Susiness Review January-February 2012

stable as well—probably because their gradual stra-

tegic shifts allow them to change as their customers

change. FactSet’s client retention rate reached 92%

in 2011. Analysts have observed that both Infosys

and Cognizant have strong client retention. Cogni-

zant reported a 90% client satisfaction rate in a re-

cent survey, and Infosys reported a 95% retention

rate in a recent interview with us. To some extent

this stability also characterizes outliers’ relation-

ships with suppliers—though our findings here were

less consistent.

They keep their senior leadership stable. At

all 10 companies on our list, the top executive had

been promoted internally; there were no white

knights or outside-the-industry saviors. Interest-

ingly~-and consistent with the findings of other

researchers over the years—these chief executives

generally kept a low profile. They were respected,

known to have made major contributions, and

somewhat visible in the press, but not charismatic

(or narcissistic). The five leaders we had the pleasure

of meeting in person were all low-key, courteous,

and attentive.

THROUGH OUR research we learned that the values,

cultural norms, strategies, capabilities, customer

relationships, and leadership of the growth outli-

ers remain consistent over time. These organiza-

tions invest seriously in corporate values, which

their leaders back up through meaningful symbolic

actions. Within this stable context, however, a tre-

mendous amount of experimentation and innova-

tion occurs,

Our conclusion is that this seeming paradox is

a feature, not a bug: Stability is what enables these

companies to innovate and to maintain steady

growth. Coupled with transparent values, it al-

lows employees to feel confident about taking the

risks that experimentation requires. Strong values

help maintain ethical standards. Continual small

changes keep an organization from becoming stale.

Management continuity permits the building of in-

formal internal networks, which are known to bea

factor in successful innovation. The result is a high-

performing organization that delivers consistent

results over a reasonably long period in the face of

environmental volatility. 0

HBR Reprint RI2015

FP Rita Gunther McGrath is a professor at Columbia

Business School. Her research focuses on strategy and

innovation in volatile environments.

CARTOON: THM LACHOAYSKI

Risk Management in a

Time of Global Uncertainty:

_Toward a More Proactive

Approach

GLOBAL COMPANIES increasingly view risk assessment and

enterprise risk management as an important strategic activity,

yet most executives still feel their companies have a long way

to go in building an effective, risk-aware culture, according to

a new survey by Harvard Business Review Analytic Services.

Over two-thirds of 1,478 business executives surveyed said

risk management has increased in importance in the wake

of the 2008 financial crisis. Yet only one in ten said their

executive management is “highly effective’ in creating a

strong risk-management culture. And while the need to link

risk information to strategic decision making was identified as

extremely important, only 14% felt their organization did it

extremely well.

Among the top barriers to better risk management cited:

Overfocusing on compliance rather than fundamental

processes (42%)

Lack of strong management support (41%)

Reluctance to de-silo related information (35%)

A majority of the companies said their approach to enterprise

risk management continues to be basic or reactive. However,

about 40% of executives surveyed considered their approach

to ERM to be “proactive,” involving the board as well as

business and functional leaders at all levels of the organization.

This “best practice” group included financial services, health

care, and energy companies and those with 10,000-pius

employees. But many other industries have either instituted

ERM processes for the first time or ramped up more rudimentary

structures to a higher standard.

Despite the gap between risk management importance and

organizational performance in managing it, the executives

surveyed said that integrating risk management and

corporate goals was key to gaining competitive advantage.

The study made clear that risk management needs to have a

clear owner to be effective—CROs are far more likely to be in

the driver's seat now than three years ago, but the CEO bears

ultimate responsibility.

ADVERTISEMENT

VIEW THE FULL REPORT AT:

www. hbrorg/white-paper/risk-management

However, the study also found that at companies with strong

ERM processes, “ownership” of risk stays in the hands of

business and functional leaders. The CRO’s role, or other

individual with overall responsibility for risk management, is to

advise and assist them, staying in regular communication and

providing them with resources to better manage risk themselves.

The result is what executives interviewed for the study call a

“collaborative culture” that integrates risk awareness into the

company’s strategic planning.

6 6 We don’t challenge the businesses on

whether they’re identifying the right risks,

but whether the process is designed and being

carried out properly. THE HEAD OF INTERNAL AUDIT

AT A UK COMPANY

Some of the top benefits of ERM that respondents cited were

not directly related to risk management. Instead, respondents

described the integrated risk management approach as helping

their companies achieve better operational performance by

removing siloed communication and by fostering:

improved strategic decision making (39%) /

Improved governance (34%)

Increased management accountability (31%)

Executives stressed that their goal was not to create a risk-

averse environment but one in which better measurement

and understanding of risk gives them more confidence about

making strategic decisions to build the business.

"Business leaders should regard risk management as essential

to their own success,” one vice president of operations at a

U.S. financial services firm said, “not to be the people who

always say no.”

G4 ZURICH

Because change happenz,