SOURCE: HBS_The Whys and Hows of Feedback.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Performance Feedback
SUMMARY: Provides guidance on how to effectively give and receive performance feedback, including preparing relevant materials, avoiding biases, and facilitating a private discussion.
KEYWORDS: performance appraisal, feedback delivery, bias mitigation, self-reflection
---

things run long. List two or three areas for improvement, as well.

Do not attempt to do a performance appraisal In addition to discrete accomplishments, spend

over the phone or through email. It is important some time reflecting on your overall

to be able to read the employee’s body language. performance, job satisfaction, and upcoming

plans and goals. Are there areas where you feel

Reserve a private space for the session. Unless unsure of your own performance? Where could

there are compelling reasons to do so, avoid you benefit from additional resources or

giving feedback in public—it makes criticism development?

harder to take, and does not make praise any

more valued. If possible, allow 30 minutes or so solo time for

reflection after the session.

Pull together relevant paperwork or data—peer

assessments, client ratings, whatever metrics are

used. The recipient should know what materials

will be included in the review process.

Do not attempt to be comprehensive. Grote

recommends writing down three successes and

two areas for improvement, or else developing a

single message for an employee to take away.41

Check yourself for biases

One of the most common biases in the psychological literature is the actor-observer effect, or the

tendency to perceive one’s own behavior as caused by external factors, and the behavior of others

as caused by their dispositions. (In other words, I am using my cell phone inappropriately because

I am having an emergency; you are using yours inappropriately because you are rude.) Feedback

givers and recipients should both be aware of this bias and think about what external factors could

have contributed to performance. Review materials with a particular eye for specific, behavioral

examples of effective or ineffective behaviors.42

41 Dick Grote, How to Be Good at Performance Appraisals.

42 Jone L. Pearce, Organizational Behavior: Real Research for Real Managers.

12

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback 416-013

Giver Recipient

Make an active effort to disregard performance Try to assess fairly how circumstances

reports from previous years. Once an employee contributed to your performance. It is tempting

(or anyone) has been mentally categorized, it can to blame circumstances for poor performance,

be difficult to perceive behavioral changes. Ask but it can also be a temptation to attribute good

yourself: What would I think of this employee if performance to luck or a general uptick in

I interviewed him or her today?43 business if you have a difficult time taking credit

for accomplishments because of personality or

Before a performance appraisal, think about the job cultural factors (such as gender norms).

itself, rather than the person in it. What are the

most important job requirements? What are the

main goals of the position? Note that these

requirements and goals may change over time.44

Prepare emotionally

Giver Recipient

For those conversations in which non-performance Spend some time considering the learning

is at issue, some suggest rehearsing what you will orientation mindset. Recognize that this is an

say, because a confrontation over a difficult topic evaluation of your performance, not your

can often lead to an emotional response. personal worth.

If the employee begins to talk about non-work If desired, do some breathing or meditation

difficulties—money, children, financial exercises before the session. Interpersonal

problems—redirect the conversation tension can cause the primitive brain to react

immediately. Sympathy can be expressed and, if with a “fight-or-flight” response; calming that

necessary, the employee can be recommended to brain in advance may be a wise move for the

an assistance program, but do not let the emotionally reactive or for people anticipating

appraisal turn into a counseling session. criticism.46

If people get emotional, wait it out. If necessary,

reschedule, but do not avoid the feedback

session. “Do not interrupt very upset people

with rational observations or analysis; this will

just further enrage them . . . Do not let emotional

outbursts lead to an avoidance of

accountability.”45

Source: Compiled by casewriters.

43 R. Buda, R.R. Reilly, and J.W. Smither, “The Influence of Indirect Knowledge of Prior Performance on Evaluations of Present

Performance: The Generalizability of Assimilation Effects,” Journal of Psychology and the Behavioral Sciences 6 (1991): 89-99.

44 Dick Grote, How to Be Good at Performance Appraisals, pp. 97-98.

45 Jone L. Pearce, Organizational Behavior: Real Research for Real Managers, p. 94.

46 Herbert Benson and William Proctor, Relaxation Revolution: Enhancing Your Personal Health Through the Science and Genetics of

Mind-Body Healing (New York: Scribner, 2010); and Rimma Teper and Michael Inzlicht, “Mindful Acceptance Dampens

Neuroaffective Reactions to External and Rewarding Performance Feedback,” Emotion 14 (2014): 105-114.

13

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

416-013 The Whys and Hows of Feedback

During the session

Giver Recipient

Don’t give employees evaluation forms that were Ask for clarification and/or elaboration on

completed before the session began, or it will seem anything specific in the feedback as necessary.

that the discussion was mere theater (although The feedback recipient should ask for examples

providing objective data is desirable). of how their performance could have been more

effective. Don’t be afraid to probe or let the

Give the feedback with objective performance data, feedback giver know that you can handle

tying performance back to established goals, straight talk. If you are unclear, ask again.

performance measures, or whatever other metrics

exist. Remember, a feedback session is not about Listen actively; try to listen rather than explain.

merely critiquing one employee’s performance, but Catch and curtail any defensiveness. Listen to

about linking that performance to team, understand: avoid making excuses or denying

departmental, and organizational goals. All of the points made. Remember, it is your

these dots should be connected so that the manager’s opinion of your job performance that