SOURCE: HBS_The Whys and Hows of Feedback.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Performance Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of clear feedback infrastructure, including job descriptions, performance goals, and consistent feedback practices across the organization.
KEYWORDS: performance management, feedback infrastructure, organizational consistency
---

the organization’s performance as a whole. Lack of clarity around job descriptions or team boundaries

can also foil attempts to give, or solicit, useful feedback.

Feedback also needs to be embedded in an entire context of performance management. This involves

goal setting at all levels of the organization, from the company as a whole to the individual, and a

compensation and rewards system that is tied directly into the desired competencies and behaviors.

Companies should have an infrastructure that supports feedback and performance management,

rather than leaving individual managers to figure it out on their own. There should be an agreed-upon

set of standards with consistency across offices and departments. A common feedback-related problem

is for organizational units or subcultures to develop very different performance standards and

practices around feedback. Organizations must maintain a balancing act between letting individual

units’ and managers’ feedback processes reflect actual differences in the work or background of

employees, and keeping a consistent set of practices and values organization-wide.

Having a clear feedback infrastructure not only prevents managers and feedback-seeking

employees from having to reinvent the wheel, but creates consistency, transparency, and trust in the

process, which is a key determinant of how people respond to feedback. Employees who trust the

feedback metrics and processes of their companies are more likely to take action on that feedback, such

as by engaging in developmental activities.20

The timing of feedback can also affect its quality and should be considered as part of the

infrastructure. If employees are feeling a great deal of organizational cynicism, for whatever reason, it

may be wise to postpone feedback efforts until such a time as people have faith that improvement will

18 Julie Spencer-Rodgers et al., “The Dialectical Self-Concept: Contradiction, Change, and Holism in East Asian Cultures,”

Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin 35 (2009): 29-44.

19 Marilyn V. Whitman, Jonathon R.B. Halbesleben, and Oscar Holmes IV, “Abusive Supervision and Feedback Avoidance: The

Mediating Role of Emotional Exhaustion,” Journal of Organizational Behavior 35 (2012) 38-53.

20 Marjolein Feys, Frederick Anseel, and Bart Wille, “Improving Feedback Reports: The Role of Procedural Information and

Information Specificity,” Academy of Management Learning & Education 10 (2011): 661-681.

7

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

416-013 The Whys and Hows of Feedback

be rewarded (or even noticed).21 Beyond this, feedback mechanisms need to be timed to performance

events.

Reviewing a task long after the task has been completed allows memory failures and biases to creep

in, and also fails to give people the opportunity to improve in a timely fashion. Informal, in-the-

moment feedback may be best for this purpose, although formal feedback events should, as much as

possible, be tied to a meaningful schedule instead of being scheduled whenever is convenient. After-

event reviews, such as those practiced by the military, can also be a good feedback practice, particularly

in a project-driven environment. When corporate policy dictates annual performance reviews, bosses

should engage in informal coaching and feedback on a regular basis. In his book How to Be Good at

Performance Appraisals, Dick Grote notes that “frequent coaching during the year is vital. It lowers the

fear factor people may experience during the annual appraisal discussion if that’s the only time the

boss talks about performance.”22

Organizational attitudes to feedback, as exemplified in leadership and practices, are also

important. Feedback should be seen as meaningful, acceptable, and useful. Cultures in which this is

the case tend to have employees who are motivated, committed, and satisfied with their work.23 One

way to create such attitudes is for leaders to model feedback-seeking behavior. “One must ask for

feedback in order to demonstrate the expectations regarding the frequency of feedback, what

constitutes suitable reactions, and when to respond or take action.”24

These kinds of feedback-friendly practices and attitudes are usually seen as part of an organization-

wide orientation to learning. As identified by David A. Garvin, Amy C. Edmondson, and Francesca

Gino, learning organizations have “(1) a supportive learning environment, (2) concrete learning

processes and practices, and (3) leadership behavior that reinforces learning.”25 Aspects of the learning

culture include psychological safety, appreciation of differences, openness to new ideas, and time for

reflection. Psychological safety, a critical component of feedback situations, refers to the sense that it is

acceptable to take risks, admit mistakes, or try new things that may or may not work. This kind of talk

sounds most culturally compatible with a “fail big!” innovative IT startup, but much of the work by

Edmondson and her colleagues has been in far more conservative and very high-stakes environ-

ments—such as children’s hospitals. In one such case, developing a new “blame free” way to analyze

mistakes and accidents led to “measurable reductions in preventable deaths and illnesses at the

institution.”26

In practice, an organization with a learning orientation and a good performance-management

system, including frequent feedback, sets itself up for a virtuous cycle of communication, alignment,

and improvement.

21 Leanne E. Atwater, David A. Waldman, and Joan F. Brett, “Understanding and Optimizing Multisource Feedback,” Human

Resource Management 41 (2002): 193-208.

22 Dick Grote, How to Be Good at Performance Appraisals (Boston: Harvard Business Review Press, 2011), p. 72.

23 Amanda Baker, Dominique Perrault, Alain Reid, and Celine M. Blanchard, “Feedback and Organizations: Feedback Is Good,

Feedback-Friendly Culture Is Better.”

24 P. 264 of Amanda Baker et al., “Feedback and Organizations: Feedback Is Good, Feedback-Friendly Culture Is Better.”

25 P. 110 of David A. Garvin, Amy C. Edmondson, and Francesca Gino, “Is Yours a Learning Organization?” Harvard Business

Review (2008): 109-116.

26 P. 111 of David A. Garvin, Amy C. Edmondson, and Francesca Gino, “Is Yours a Learning Organization?”

8

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback 416-013

National Culture