SOURCE: HBS_Leader's Guide to Corporate Culture.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture
TOPIC: Organizational Culture
SUMMARY: The text discusses eight styles of organizational culture and how they fit into an integrated culture framework based on flexibility, independence, and response to change.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, cultural styles, integrated culture framework, flexibility, independence
---

customs.

can provide important clues to how these leaders are thinking about

These eight styles fit into our inte-

and leading their organizations’ cultures. grated culture framework (see the exhibit

“Integrated Culture: The Framework”) ac-

cording to the degree to which they reflect

FLEXIBILITY WHOLE FOODS PURPOSE independence or interdependence (people

TESLA LEARNING “ Most of the greatest companies interactions) and flexibility or stability (re-

“ I’m interested in things that change in the world also have great sponse to change). Styles that are adjacent

the world or that affect the future purposes….Having a deeper, more in the framework, such as safety and order,

and wondrous new technology transcendent purpose is highly

where you see it and you’re like energizing for all of the various frequently coexist within organizations

‘Wow, how did that even happen?’” interdependent stakeholders.” and their people. In contrast, styles that are

—Elon Musk, cofounder and CEO —John Mackey, founder and CEO located across from each other, such as

safety and learning, are less likely to be found

ZAPPOS together and require more organizational

ENJOYMENT DISNEY CARING energy to maintain simultaneously. Each

“H ave fun. The game is a “ It is incredibly important to style has advantages and disadvantages, and

lot more enjoyable when be open and accessible and no style is inherently better than another.

you’re trying to do more treat people fairly and look

than make money.” them in the eye and tell them An organizational culture can be defined by

—Tony Hsieh, CEO what is on your mind.” the absolute and relative strengths of each

—Bob Iger, CEO

of the eight and by the degree of employee

agreement about which styles character-

ize the organization. A powerful feature of

GSK RESULTS SEC ORDER this framework, which differentiates it from

“ I’ve tried to keep us focused “Rule making is a key function other models, is that it can also be used to

on a very clear strategy of of the commission. And when

modernizing ourselves.” we are setting the rules define individuals’ styles and the values of

—Sir Andrew Witty, former CEO for the securities markets, leaders and employees.

there are many rules we,

Inherent in the framework are funda-

the SEC, must follow.”

HUAWEI AUTHORITY —Jay Clayton, chairman mental trade-offs. Although each style can

be beneficial, natural constraints and com-

“We have a ‘wolf’ spirit in our

company. In the battle with lions, LLOYD’S OF LONDON SAFETY peting demands force difficult choices about

wolves have terrifying abilities. “ To protect themselves, businesses which values to emphasize and how people

With a strong desire to win and should spend time understanding what are expected to behave. It is common to find

no fear of losing, they stick to specific threats they may be exposed

organizations with cultures that emphasize

the goal firmly, making the lions to and speak to experts who can help.”

exhausted in every possible way.” —Inga Beale, CEO both results and caring, but this combination

—Ren Zhengfei, CEO can be confusing to employees. Are they ex-

STABILITY pected to optimize individual goals and strive

for outcomes at all costs, or should they work

as a team and emphasize collaboration and

shared success? The nature of the work itself,

by curiosity; leaders emphasize innovation, Authority is defined by strength, deci- the business strategy, or the design of the or-

knowledge, and adventure. siveness, and boldness. Work environments ganization may make it difficult for employ-

Enjoyment is expressed through fun and are competitive places where people strive ees to be equally results focused and caring.

excitement. Work environments are light- to gain personal advantage. Employees are In contrast, a culture that emphasizes

hearted places where people tend to do what united by strong control; leaders emphasize caring and order encourages a work environ-

makes them happy. Employees are united by confidence and dominance. ment in which teamwork, trust, and respect

playfulness and stimulation; leaders empha- Safety is defined by planning, caution, are paramount. The two styles are mutually

size spontaneity and a sense of humor. and preparedness. Work environments reinforcing, which can be beneficial but can

Results is characterized by achievement are predictable places where people are also pre sent challenges. The benefits are

and winning. Work environments are out- risk-conscious and think things through strong loyalty, retention of talent, lack of con-

come-oriented and merit-based places carefully. Employees are united by a desire to flict, and high levels of engagement. The chal-

where people aspire to achieve top perfor- feel protected and anticipate change; leaders lenges are a tendency toward groupthink,

mance. Employees are united by a drive for emphasize being realistic and planning ahead. reliance on consensus-based decisions,

capability and success; leaders emphasize Order is focused on respect, structure, avoidance of difficult issues, and a calcified

goal accomplishment. and shared norms. Work environments are sense of “us versus them.” Leaders who are

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

6 HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW JANUARY–FEBRcUusAtRomY e2r0s1e8rvice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

ECNEDNEPEDNI

INTERDEPENDENCE

FOR ARTICLE REPRINTS CALL 800-988-0886 OR 617-783-7500, OR VISIT HBR.ORG

THE PROS AND CONS OF CULTURE STYLES more focused on results and learning may find

the combination of caring and order stifling

Every culture style has strengths and weaknesses. The table below when they seek to drive entrepreneurship

and change. Savvy leaders make use of exist-

summarizes the advantages and disadvantages of each style and how

ing cultural strengths and have a nuanced un-

frequently it appears as a defining culture characteristic among the

derstanding of how to initiate change. They

companies in our study. might rely on the participative nature of a

culture focused on caring and order to engage

RANKED team members and simultaneously identify a

CULTURE STYLE ADVANTAGES DISADVANTAGES

1ST OR 2ND learning-oriented “insider” who has the trust

of his or her peers to advocate for change

Improved teamwork, Overemphasis on consensus through relationship networks.