SOURCE: HBS_Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Pricing Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the use of performance-based pricing to manage risks and opportunities, with guidelines for its implementation.
KEYWORDS: performance-based pricing, risk management, value-based pricing, negotiation, pricing strategy
---

using the pricing approach to clarify customer value and expand the ZOPA between customer value

and cost.

Finally, it is useful to consider the risk embodied in various pricing approaches. Pricing that

is openly based on costs plus a predetermined profit margin, and is often referred to as “time and

materials,” involves no vendor cost risk or price risk. The customer pays for all cost overruns and the

profit is clear at the start to both seller and buyer. Typical fixed price sales involve cost risk only for

the seller. The price is set before the product or service is made or provided. Performance-based

pricing moves both the cost and price risk to the seller. Neither is clear when the deal is made. But,

the vendor then obtains the opportunity to better manage the spreads among value, price, and cost to

its advantage. With risk comes added opportunity. The vendor who uses performance-based pricing

must thus be willing to accept greater, two-sided (price and cost) risk for added reward opportunity.

Application Guidelines

The complexity and custom nature of the performance agreement mean that performance-

based pricing is only applicable to relatively large, important transactions/relationships for both the

buyer and seller. The up-front cost of exchanging information and negotiating the performance goals

and measures as well as the cost of applying the measures mean that this isn’t for small or trivial

situations. The power of the approach really comes to bear only when there is a mutual need to focus

on joint objectives, and the abilities to meet those objectives are fraught with significant uncertainties.

Performance-based pricing must be implemented with care and vigor. It is not a half-way solution.

Experience provides pragmatic guidelines for implementing performance-based pricing:

1, Invest the time up-front to carefully and fully define the objectives of the project

and exchange all the relevant information. Both buyer and seller must

understand their own and the other party’s situation, including overarching

business goals and strategy. If there are serious functional and/or other internal

fractures on either side, the process won’t work.

2. Broaden the negotiation perspective to encompass all elements of the situation.

That way each party can bring to bear its most complete arsenal of tools and

approaches.

3, Explore a wide range of outcomes and consider what is controllable by the seller,

the buyer, and neither. The exploration of outcomes, and the broadening of the

negotiation perspective (number 2 above) require substantial creativity.

4. Take the time to negotiate completely. Do not rush because important details can

and will be lost in haste.

5. Develop clear measures of achievement for each objective. Specify precisely

what “performance” means.

6. Enumerate an explicit formula to relate payment price to performance outcomes.

7. Specify a mechanism to adjudicate disagreements over outcome measurement.

ce

9-959-003 Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order

A Closer Link Between Value Provided and Payment Received

The emergence and growth of performance-based pricing is part of a larger phenomenon that

is altering the landscape of business. Chief executive officer compensation is shifting towards a

higher level of risk and reward. The trend is spreading to top management teams (naturally enough),

and even extremely large employee groups (GE’s top 10,000 managers are participating in the

company’s stock option program). Professional service firms are seeking (or being asked to accept)

remuneration based on performance. Contractors, long accustomed to cost-plus pricing, are now

confronting penalties for lateness and rewards for acceleration. The old fixed-price world is giving

way to a variable-price world, with different levels of performance driving different levels of price

realization.

The paradox in applying performance-based pricing for both buyer and seller is that it is most

appropriate where outcomes are fairly cloudy, and thus where the performance-based agreement is

often hardest to negotiate. But, the process of carefully specifying objectives, performance, and

measures; and of broadening the negotiation perspective is what makes the approach so powerful. It

enables the parties to shed light on the sources of the uncertainties and to illuminate new ways in

which they can cooperate for their mutual benefit.

IX. ADDITIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR VALUE-ADDED PRICING:

TERMS & CONDITIONS

Terms and conditions provide another opportunity for creating customer value and

simultaneously making more money by expanding ZOPA at the top. Terms and conditions include

volume discounts, credit and payment terms, etc.

The simple rule here is to provide what is dear to the customer and cheap to the supplier. For

example, dating, i.e., extended payment terms used in highly seasonal businesses such as toys and

nursery stock, enables the downstream retailer or wholesaler to accept delivery months before

payment is due. This enables the supplier to level production and distribution demands on their

facilities while still ensuring timely delivery to customers.

Of course, these are all two-edged swords because they incur cost. Thus, they must be

analyzed on a transaction-by-transaction basis.

The previous three sections have focused on using pricing to increase and/or clarify customer

value. That is where the preponderance of new opportunities in price-making lie. While no one

approach for every situation, there is a wide menu of opportunities. And, ignoring the opportunities

presents a substantial risk from competitors and customers. The last section of this article helps to

match each pricing approach with the most appropriate applications. Before that, however, we must

explore all the approaches. So we now move to two more traditional approaches that offer less

opportunity but are still important.

X. NON-CUSTOMER VALUE ADDED APPROACHES TO PRICING

ZOPA, as we have seen, can be expanded at the bottom end by cutting costs. Many suppliers

provide things that some customers do not need or want. These are obvious candidates for removal.

Unbundling and productizing a service are two approaches already considered. Performance-based

pricing provides the kind of intensive and extensive buyer-seller communication that enables the

Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order 9-999-003

supplier to remove all non-value-added components from their offering to minimize costs while

maintaining or increasing customer value.