SOURCE: HBS_Leader's Guide to Corporate Culture.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture
TOPIC: Organizational Culture Analysis
SUMMARY: The text explores different culture styles, their advantages and disadvantages, and how managers can use this framework to understand and shape their organization's culture.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, culture styles, culture diagnosis, culture alignment, culture change
---

culture focused on caring and order to engage

RANKED team members and simultaneously identify a

CULTURE STYLE ADVANTAGES DISADVANTAGES

1ST OR 2ND learning-oriented “insider” who has the trust

of his or her peers to advocate for change

Improved teamwork, Overemphasis on consensus through relationship networks.

CARING engagement, building may reduce exploration The eight styles can be used to diagnose

communication, trust, of options, stifle competitiveness, 63% and describe highly complex and diverse be-

Warm, sincere,

and sense of belonging and slow decision making

relational havioral patterns in a culture and to model

how likely an individual leader is to align with

and shape that culture. Using this framework

Improved appreciation Overemphasis on a long-term

and multilevel approach, managers can:

PURPOSE for diversity, purpose and ideals may get

• Understand their organization’s culture

sustainability, in the way of practical and 9%

Purpose driven, and social immediate concerns and assess its intended and unintended

idealistic, tolerant

responsibility effects

• Evaluate the level of consistency in

Improved innovation, Overemphasis on exploration employees’ views of the culture

LEARNING agility, and may lead to a lack of focus and

• Identify subcultures that may account

organizational learning an inability to exploit existing 7%

Open, inventive, advantages for higher or lower group performance

exploring

• Pinpoint differences between legacy

cultures during mergers and acquisitions

Improved employee Overemphasis on autonomy and

ENJOYMENT • Rapidly orient new executives to the

morale, engagement, engagement may lead to a lack of

culture they are joining and help them

Playful, and creativity discipline and create possible 2%

instinctive, compliance or governance issues determine the most effective way to

fun loving lead employees

• Measure the degree of alignment

Improved execution, Overemphasis on achieving between individual leadership styles and

RESULTS

external focus, results may lead to organizational culture to determine what

Achievement capability building, communication and collaboration 89% impact a leader might have

driven, goal and goal achievement breakdowns and higher levels of

focused stress and anxiety • Design an aspirational culture and

communicate the changes necessary

Improved speed of Overemphasis on strong to achieve it

AUTHORITY decision making and authority and bold decision

responsiveness to making may lead to politics, 4%

Bold, decisive,

threats or crises conflict, and a psychologically THE LINK BETWEEN CULTURE

dominant

unsafe work environment AND OUTCOMES

Our research and practical experience

Improved risk Overemphasis on standardization

have shown that when you are evaluating

SAFETY management, and formalization may lead to

stability, and business bureaucracy, inflexibility, and 8% how culture affects outcomes, the con-

Realistic, careful, continuity dehumanization of the work text in which the organization operates—

prepared

environment geographic region, industry, strategy, lead-

ership, and company structure—matters,

Improved operational Overemphasis on rules as does the strength of the culture. (See

ORDER

efficiency, reduced and traditions may reduce “Context, Conditions, and Culture,” page

Rule abiding, conflict, and greater individualism, stifle creativity, 15% 56.) What worked in the past may no longer

respectful, civic-mindedness and limit organizational agility work in the future, and what worked for one

cooperative

company may not work for another.

We have arrived at the following insights:

When aligned with strategy and

NOTE SUM OF PERCENTAGES IS GREATER THAN 100 BECAUSE STYLES WERE COUNTED AS DOMINANT

IF THEY WERE RANKED 1 OR 2 OVERALL. leadership, a strong culture drives

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additiJoAnaNlU cAopRiYe–sF.EBRUARY 2018 HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW 7

SPOTLIGHT THE LEADER’S GUIDE TO CORPORATE CULTURE

positive organizational outcomes. to retire, spurring rumors about a hostile independent, and simultaneously begin to

Consider the case of a best-in-class retailer takeover. The CEO was actively grooming a restructure in preparation for growth.

headquartered in the United States. The successor, an insider who had been with the In a merger, designing a new culture

company had viewed its first priority as pro- company for more than 20 years. Our anal- on the basis of complementary strengths

viding top-notch customer service. It accom- ysis revealed an organizational culture that can speed up integration and create more

plished this with a simple rule—Do right by strongly emphasized caring and purpose. As value over time. Mergers and acquisitions

the customer—that encouraged employees one leader reflected, “You feel like part of a can either create or destroy value. Numerous

to use their judgment when providing ser- large family when you become an employee studies have shown that cultural dynamics

vice. A core HR training practice was to help at this company.” represent one of the greatest yet most fre-

every salesperson see customer interactions The potential successor understood the quently overlooked determinants of integra-

as an opportunity to create “service stories culture but was far more risk-averse (safety) tion success and postmerger performance.

that become legendary.” Employees were re- and respectful of traditions (order) than the For example, senior leaders from two

minded to define service from the customer’s rest of the company. Given the takeover ru- merging international food retailers had

perspective, to constantly engage customers mors, top leaders and managers told the CEO invested heavily in their organizations’ cul-

with questions geared toward understanding that they believed the company needed to tures and wanted to preserve their unique

their specific needs and preferences, and to take a more aggressive and action-oriented strengths and distinct heritages. An assess-

go beyond their expectations. stance in the future. The board decided to ment of the cultures revealed shared values

In measuring the culture of this com- consider the internal candidate alongside and areas of compatibility that could provide

pany, we found that like many other large people from outside the company. a foundation for the combined culture, along

retailers, it was characterized primarily by Three external candidates emerged: one with important differences for which leaders

a combination of results and caring. Unlike who was aligned with the current culture would have to plan: Both companies empha-