SOURCE: HBS_The Whys and Hows of Feedback_Boris Groysberg.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Performance Feedback
SUMMARY: The text discusses the use of linguistic cues and techniques in providing performance feedback, highlighting differences in cultural communication styles and tailoring feedback based on employee performance level.
KEYWORDS: performance feedback, linguistic cues, cultural communication styles, employee performance levels, feedback techniques
---

the types of words people use. More direct cultures tend to use what linguists call

upgraders, words preceding or following negative feedback that make it feel stronger,

such as absolutely, totally, or strongly: “This is absolutely inappropriate,” or “This is

totally unprofessional.” By contrast, more indirect cultures use more downgraders,

words that soften the criticism, such as kind of, sort of, a little, a bit, maybe, and slightly.

Another type of downgrader is a deliberate understatement, such as “We are not quite

there yet” when you really mean “This is nowhere close to complete.”

Paying attention to linguistic cues can help managers calibrate their language to ensure that their

feedback is heard as intended, and that they themselves hear the intended messages in the feedback

they receive.

Feedback: How to Run a Session

A common practice in feedback sessions, especially formal performance reviews, is the “sandwich

P Pp

technique” of beginning and ending the session with praise, and confining the negative comments to

the middle. For example, Jone L. Pearce recommends that managers “Try to begin and end with areas

of success” in a formal performance evaluation.*> The exact recipe of the “sandwich,” however, varies

depending on the quality of the employee. There is no point to nitpicking the mistakes of an excellent

P' & ploy 5

performer, nor of trying to find some upside to a record of underperformance.

Feedback sessions with poor performers need to be handled differently from those with excellent-

to-acceptable performers. Dick Grote created a matrix of performance based on performance results

and behaviors (“behaviors” meaning general collegiality, ethics, cultural fit and other intangibles that

may not affect the quality of the work but have great impact on the quality of the workplace) to

categorize the five types of employees:

a4 Mary F. Sully De Luque, and Steven M. Sommer, “The Impact of Culture on Feedback-Seeking Behaviors: An Integrated

Model and Propositions,” Acadenry Of Management Review 25, no. 4 (2000): 829-849,

35 Brin Meyer, “How to Say This Is Crap’ in Different Cultures,” Harvard Business Review blog, https:/ /hbr.org/2014/02/how-

to-say-this-is-crap-in-different-cultures/, February 25, 2014, accessed May 22, 2015.

46 Pearce, p. 103.

10

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbreworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback

416-013

Poor Results Average Great Results

Great Behavior Lovable Loser Star

Average Journeyman

Poor Behavior Failure Prima Donnas

Source: Dick Grote, How to Be Good at Performance Appraisals (Boston: Harvard Business Review Press, 2011).

Feedback for stars and journeymen—the solid B-level performers who keep an organization

running—should focus primarily on motivating and energizing the employee. High-performing

employees are usually self-motivated and willing to bring up their own shortcomings in a performance

review, assuming they know what those shortcomings are, This is an important caveat. Managers may tend

to avoid giving negative feedback to generally good employees whom they like, overlooking areas for

improvement or possible misalignment with the organization. Such managers assume that because of

their collegial relationship, the liked employees will seek out feedback, and more importantly know

what feedback they need. This can be a problem when organizational goals change or an employee is in

difficult circumstances,” A manager should not feel the need to come up with picayune shortcomings

or mistakes in order to “balance” a good worker's performance review, but should also keep a keen eye

out for errors or lapses that might signify a lack of alignment or capacity.

Failures, lovable losers, and prima donnas, however, need a sharp wakeup call. The balance to be

struck is to make a clear case for “the need for an immediate and total turnaround if the person is to

remain employed,"% while not evoking excessive defensiveness. Avoid looking for a bright side

where none exists, or mentioning the employee’s strengths, as some positive comments can be

latched on to by an underperformer, At the same time, focus on specific actions rather than personal

qualities. Pearce advises managers confronting underperforming employees to “Describe the effects

of the action. For example, ‘When you do [describe the action] if leads to [describe the negative

consequences for the organization.’ Practice this; it works.”9° The main focus of the feedback session

is to achieve agreement between the manager and employee on the existence of the action and

consequence, and to begin problem solving: “Performance feedback works best when it is a

conversation about causes —a conversation about how to fix the problems.”“°

The remainder of this section will provide a basic outline for a formal or semi-formal feedback

session, outlining what to do and things to keep in mind before, during, and after the session.

3? Adams, Susan M. “Positive Affect and Feedback-Giving Behavior,” Journal of Managerial Psychology 20, no. 1 (2005): 24-42.

38 Grote, p. 159.

39 Pearce, p. 93.

40 Pearce, p. 92.

1

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbreworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

416-013 The Whys and Hows of Feedback

Before the session

Get logistics, paperwork, and data in order

Giver Recipient

Allow 45-60 minutes for a feedback session. Fill out any required paperwork, Create a list of

Avoid having anything inflexible scheduled your main accomplishments during the most

immediately after a feedback session, in case recent period (whether this is asked for or not).

things run long. List two or three areas for improvement, as well.

Do not attempt to do a performance appraisal In addition to discrete accomplishments, spend

over the phone or through email. It is important some time reflecting on your overall

to be able to read the employee’s body language. performance, job satisfaction, and upcoming

plans and goals. Are there areas where you feel

unsure of your own performance? Where could

you benefit from additional resources or

development?

Reserve a private space for the session. Unless

there are compelling reasons to clo so, avoid