SOURCE: HBS_Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Pricing Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of operating in multiple business models and the strategic opportunities for profit-based pricing in the new era.
KEYWORDS: pricing strategy, business models, profit-based pricing, customer value, cost structure
---

difficult for a competitor to even survive let alone catch up. The walls of what otherwise might be

defensible niches are breached by the overwhelming growth in customer value and the almost

negligible incremental cost. This process, of course, has made Bill Gates apparently the richest

person in the world!

VI. CROSSING THE QUADRANTS: THE CHALLENGE OF DIVERGENT

BUSINESS MODELS

(Exhibit 6), the chart of cost structure versus account base concentration, is powerful because

it considers both a primary marketing dimension and a primary cost accounting dimension. It focuses

attention on the appropriate goals and leverage points, and goes a long way toward the definition of a

business model (ie., the collection of business decisions that defines the integrated way in which

profits are generated in the company).

But, what happens when a company must operate in more than one quadrant? Banks,

utilities, and airlines, for example, have some commercial businesses where accounts are concentrated

and some consumer businesses where the number of customers is large and their individual size

small. That makes it difficult for top management to exercise the right judgment and skill to respond

to disparate businesses and their needs. How does the consumer banker learn to deal with giant

institutional customers, and how does the utility executive with industrial experience learn to deal

with consumers, advertising, etc.?

Perhaps even more challenging is the single company that has a high fixed cost business and

a high variable cost business. Commercial software companies often exhibit the fixed cost-high

return to scale profile described earlier. But, many also have consulting, systems integration, and

customer training operations that have high variable costs embedded in expensive, hard-to-manage

professional engineers. Most executives find it hard to manage such a disparate pair of businesses

because their intuition needs to be “recalibrated” for each side of the operation.

Pricing in the new era is even more difficult than before. Now, we look at solutions.

VIL. STRATEGIC OPPORTUNITIES FOR PROFIT-BASED PRICING

Price setting is a highly leveraged activity whose impact on profitability is profound. Thus it

deserves care. And, in the new era, it requires care and work. Simple solutions implemented in a

standardized rote manner and/or without care and thought lead to disasters — nothing less.

There are three ways to deal conceptually with price setting. (Exhibit 1), our “total” income

statement, makes them clear:

1. Create more customer value at the top so that ZOPA expands. As a subset,

clarify and emphasize the customer value so that it is better perceived by the

customer.

2. Lower cost at the bottom so that ZOPA expands.

3. Move price within ZOPA so that your profit as a supplier is greater. Note that

this is a zero-sum game in which your gain comes at the expense of the customer.

Most pricing decisions are made this way. But, it is a very limited approach.

Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order 9-999-003

Value-Added and Transaction-Specific Pricing

We begin with pricing approaches that either create more customer value or that clarify the

value. We might term these approaches value-added pricing. Value-added pricing will work best

when one thinks of transaction-specific pricing—each transaction should be priced individually in a

scalpel-like approach. A meat-cleaver standard uncustomized approach is unlikely to work well.

Economists call transaction-specific pricing “price discrimination” emphasizing that each

customer pays a different price. Each customer and often each transaction represents a different

customer value. This is the opposite of standard rote cost-plus pricing. There are limits to this

approach, however. If customers purchase the same exact thing, and can learn what others have paid

(through observations and/or discussion), it won’t work. Thus, it is more suited to individual

purchases such as those in the commercial and industrial market places than to mass merchandising.

But, many of its benefits can also be achieved by pricing categories of transactions differently from

other categories. The more customization you can achieve, the better it will be. Airlines have

pushed the limits on this approach with yield management to maximize the price of a seat: each

passenger on a flight may pay a different price for essentially the same seat. Profit results have been

excellent although customer skepticism has soared.

While transaction-specific pricing works best in the commercial and industrial marketplaces,

the ability to apply computers and sophisticated software to the calculation, optimization, and record-

keeping tasks, combined with more non-store retailing such as on the Internet makes it applicable to

some consumer marketplaces as well. Again, the airline example is a good one.

Product or service line pricing is a step toward a form of “mass” transaction-specific pricing.

By offering several items in a product/service line at different prices, the seller lets the buyer choose

the most appropriate fit of customer value and price. The classic example is the General Motors

product line developed in the 1920s going from Chevrolet at the low end, through three intermediate

nameplates or individual brands, to Cadillac at the high end. Another rich example is Sears’

traditional “good, better, best” offering. But while product/service line pricing is a step toward

transaction-specific pricing, it is only a small step. In essence it enables some choice by the buyer,

but little opportunity for true customization by the seller.

Different Pricing Metrics

A powerful approach to supplement transaction-specific pricing is pricing by something other

than the traditional or obvious metric. Two classic examples will help here. When Xerox introduced

the plain paper copier, it brought a wonderful technology to market, much better than its liquid

toner/coated paper predecessor. Xerox could have sold the machine, or leased it on a time basis. But

instead, in a brilliant move, it charged per copy by putting a counter, called a “lease meter,” on each

machine. This enabled it to charge per copy thus “customizing” the price to each individual

customer. The customer paid based on a measure of the individual customer value created by their

machine. This also enabled Xerox to offer volume discounts to larger users.