SOURCE: HBS_Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Pricing Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses various pricing strategies, including customized pricing, servicizing products, and bundling/unbundling, to increase customer value and profit.
KEYWORDS: Pricing, Customization, Servicizing, Bundling
---

machine. This enabled it to charge per copy thus “customizing” the price to each individual

customer. The customer paid based on a measure of the individual customer value created by their

machine. This also enabled Xerox to offer volume discounts to larger users.

Another example occurred early in the history of advertising. Rather than charge based on

time and materials as a consultant would, early advertising agencies at the turn of the century charged

customers a “commission” of 15% of the media buy. As mass marketing, national media, TV and

radio, and huge advertising programs interacted with one another, budgets soared and agency

commissions followed in linear progression. The whole industry would have been vastly different if

the initial pricing had been viewed in a “consulting mentality” instead of a “‘sales commission”

approach.

9-999-003 Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order

All too often companies implicitly “price by-the-pound” applying a cost-plus pricing

mentality instead of something more creative. By-the-pound is easy and simple, but often doesn’t

relate to value. It only relates to cost.

Recasting Products and Services

Another step toward more creative pricing is to think of opportunities to either “servicize” a

product, or to “productize” a service. Many years ago IBM did a wonderful job of selling large batch

processing business computers to large companies. At the time, small companies found it hard to buy

computers so IBM established the Service Bureau to provide primarily smaller companies with turn-

key support. This “sell-it-by-the-slice” approach opened a new market. Automobile leasing is

another fine example of making a product into a service.

Of course, one can productize a service as well. For example, an accounting firm could

provide accounting software to replace expensive professional time. “Do it yourself” wills are a good

legal example.

Often companies that supply a product are different from those that supply the competing

service because the product requires different development, delivery, and marketing skills. But, the

service and product meet the same needs for the customer and are thus quite competitive. It is useful

for companies to expand their view to include such servicizing and productizing opportunities and

risks for both pricing and product/service line management. Pricing the “obvious way that we have

always done” considerably limits the opportunity for profit and revenue growth, and blinds a

company to threats from different competitive approaches.

Bundling and Unbundling

Bundling and unbundling individual items in a product/service line is still another step toward

expanding the pricing perspective to increase customer value, pricing latitude, and profit potential.

For some customers there are a great deal of value creation possibilities by bundling a package of

products and/or services together. This increases convenience and reduces acquisition cost and risk.

Distributors often combine industrial repair parts into repair “‘kits.” The buyer will receive parts they

don’t need, but the additional cost is more than offset by the single purchase replacing many smaller

individual acquisitions and providing the convenience of a whole set of parts in one package. Suites

of computer programs, such as Microsoft Office, represent another examples. The buyer gets

convenience and assurance that the individual programs will be compatible.

Unbundling can offer the same opportunity in reverse. Here, the seller sirips away the non-

value-added parts of the bundle so that the buyer can purchase only what it wants.

Bundling and unbundling is a broader way of looking at productizing and servicizing.

Automobile leases, for example, handle the car and its financing, and often insurance and post sales

service, The leverage from bundling and unbundling comes because different customers value

different components and/or bundles differently, and because costs vary across components and/or

bundles. The logic here is to find the bundle size for each customer and/or transaction that maximizes

the spread between customer value and cost, the ZOPA of (Exhibit 1).

Perhaps the ultimate step in the continuum toward value-added pricing (and related

product/service decisions) is performance-based pricing. It deserves separate coverage because it is

so powerful and useful.

Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order 9-989-003

VI. PERFORMANCE-BASED PRICING IS MORE THAN PRICING2

Performance-based pricing is an arrangement in which the seller is paid based on the actual

performance of its product or service. It is becoming much more popular. As we saw, in the

advertising industry, agencies were typically paid 15% of the cost of the media they bought for a

client. Now, more and more agencies are being forced to accept performance-based pricing-——they

are paid based on achieving certain client advertising and/or marketing goals. The contractor who

rebuilt the 1995 earthquake damaged freeway in Los Angeles received enormous performance

incentives by completing the reconstruction early. Other industries as diverse as consulting, trucking,

and heavy industrial services are seeing the same trend.

An Example

Before explaining the benefits, drawbacks and applications of performance-based pricing, let

us consider a detailed example involving ABB and Ford.3 Ford needed a world class supplier to

design and build a turnkey automotive painting facility in Oakville, Canada. Ford and ABB agreed to

work together in an initial preparatory phase, rejecting the traditional approach of bids submitted

based on incomplete information.

The initial preparatory phase involved a significant exchange of information and perspectives

between the two firms, and led to a novel type of agreement. ABB would design and build the plant

at a far lower cost than standard. Then, if ABB could reduce the cost even further, it would receive a

pre-agreed percentage of the savings. This innovative, performance-based approach left both parties

significantly better off than they would have been under conventional bidding or a negotiated price

arrangement. Ford received a significantly lower cost plant at a lower level of risk: ABB received a

share in the cost and design improvements it was able to create.

Advantages

One advantage of performance-based pricing is the often-mentioned alignment that can be

achieved between the buyer’s goals and the seller’s goals. But, that is only part of the story. There