SOURCE: HBS_Leader's Guide to Corporate Culture.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture
TOPIC: Organizational Culture Change
SUMMARY: Two companies with similar values but different leadership styles undergo cultural shifts to align with their strategic goals.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, leadership style, cultural alignment, strategic change, innovation
---

retailers, it was characterized primarily by Three external candidates emerged: one with important differences for which leaders

a combination of results and caring. Unlike who was aligned with the current culture would have to plan: Both companies empha-

many other retailers, however, it had a cul- (purpose), one who would be a risk taker sized results, caring, and order and valued

ture that was also very flexible, learning ori- and innovative (learning), and one who was high-quality food, good service, treating em-

ented, and focused on purpose. As one top hard-driving and competitive (authority). ployees fairly, and maintaining a local mind-

executive explained, “We have freedom as After considerable deliberation, the board set. But one operated in a more top-down

long as we take good care of the customer.” chose the highly competitive leader with the manner and scored much higher on authority,

Furthermore, the company’s values and authority style. Soon afterward an activist especially in the behavior of leaders.

norms were very clear to everyone and con- investor attempted a hostile takeover, and Because both companies valued team-

sistently shared throughout the organization. the new CEO was able to navigate through work and investments in the local commu-

As the retailer expanded into new segments the precarious situation, keep the company nity, the leaders prioritized caring and pur-

and geographies over the years, the leader- pose. At the same time, their strategy required

ship strove to maintain an intense customer that they shift from top-down authority to a

focus without diluting its cherished culture. learning style that would encourage innova-

Although the company had historically fo- tion in new-store formats and online retail-

cused on developing leaders from within— ing. As one senior leader said of the strategic

who were natural culture carriers—recruiting aspiration, “We need to dare to do things

outsiders became necessary as it grew. The differently, not play by the old rule books.”

company preserved its culture through this Cultural Once they had agreed on a culture, a rigor-

change by carefully assessing new leaders ous assessment process identified leaders at

and designing an onboarding process that dynamics both organizations whose personal style and

reinforced core values and norms. values would allow them to serve as bridges

Culture is a powerful differentiator for to and champions for it. Then a program was

represent one

this company because it is strongly aligned launched to promote cultural alignment

with strategy and leadership. Delivering out- within 30 top teams, with an emphasis on

of the greatest

standing customer service requires a culture clarifying priorities, making authentic con-

and a mindset that emphasize achievement, nections, and developing team norms that

yet most

impeccable service, and problem solving would bring the new culture to life.

through autonomy and inventiveness. Not Finally, structural elements of the new

frequently

surprisingly, those qualities have led to a va- organization were redesigned with culture

riety of positive outcomes for the company, in mind. A model for leadership was devel-

overlooked

including robust growth and international oped that encompassed recruitment, talent

expansion, numerous customer service assessment, training and development, per-

awards, and frequent appearances on lists factors in formance management, reward systems,

of the best companies to work for. and promotions. Such design considerations

Selecting or developing leaders for postmerger are often overlooked during organizational

the future requires a forward-looking change, but if systems and structures don’t

strategy and culture. The chief executive performance. align with cultural and leadership imperatives,

of an agriculture business was planning progr ess can be derailed.

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

8 HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW JANUARY–FEBRcUusAtRomY e2r0s1e8rvice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

FOR ARTICLE REPRINTS CALL 800-988-0886 OR 617-783-7500, OR VISIT HBR.ORG

In a dynamic, uncertain environment, top-down emphasis on authority. The com- well as aspirations and trends. Because of

in which organizations must be more ag- pany’s leaders decided to shape it to be much culture’s somewhat ambiguous and hidden

ile, learning gains importance. It’s not more purpose-driven, enabling, open, and nature, referring to tangible problems, such

surprising that results is the most common team based, which would entail an increase as market pressures or the challenges of

culture style among all the companies we in caring along with learning and purpose and growth, helps people better understand and

have studied. Yet during a decade of help- a decrease in authority and results. connect to the need for change.

ing leaders design aspirational cultures, we This shift was particularly challenging Select and develop leaders who align

have seen a clear trend toward prioritizing because the current culture had served the with the target culture. Leaders serve as

learning to promote innovation and agility as organization well for many years, while the important catalysts for change by encour-

businesses respond to increasingly less pre- industry emphasized efficiency and results. aging it at all levels and creating a safe cli-

dictable and more complex environments. Most managers still viewed it as a strength mate and what Edgar Schein calls “practice

And although learning ranks fourth within and fought to preserve it, threatening success fields.” Candidates for recruitment should be

our broader database, small companies (200 for the new strategic direction. evaluated on their alignment with the target.

employees or fewer) and those in newer in- Cultural change is daunting for any orga- A single model that can assess both organi-

dustries (such as software, technology, and nization, but as this company realized, it’s zational culture and individual leadership

wireless equipment) accord it higher values. not impossible. The CEO introduced new styles is critical for this activity.

Consider one Silicon Valley–based tech- leadership development and team coach- Incumbent leaders who are unsupport-

nology company we worked with. Though ing programs and training opportunities ive of desired change can be engaged and

it had built a strong business and invested that would help leaders feel more comfort- re-energized through training and educa-