SOURCE: HBS_The CEO of Aotomattic on Holding Auditions to Build a Strong Team.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Hiring and Recruitment Practices
SUMMARY: The text discusses Automattic's approach to hiring, including paid tryouts and assessing candidates' skills and cultural fit through hands-on exercises.
KEYWORDS: Hiring practices, Tryouts, Candidate assessment, Remote work, Cultural fit
---

Paying them for their efforts is important; this isn’t about getting work done free. Originally

we tried to set hourly pay rates based on what they might earn if they were hired, but that

became too complicated. We were almost negotiating what we would pay someone who

hadn’t yet received an offer, which didn’t make any sense. To keep it simple, we decided to

pay a standard $25 an hour, whether the candidate was hoping to be an engineer or the

chief financial officer.

If you’re applying to work in customer support, you’ll be talking directly to customers. If

you’re an engineer, you'll be writing real code. If you’re a designer, you’ll design. In some

cases the nature of the job means that we have to get creative. If you’re looking for a role in

business development, we can’t send you out to negotiate deals with potential partners, so

we come up with something as closely related as possible to the actual work. A business-

side hire might prepare presentations, or do an analysis of a business problem, or run

numbers on a potential project. Tryouts may not offer 100% overlap with the job in

question, but they give us a better window on someone’s skills and cultural fit than a lunch

meeting would. We’re especially interested in how well candidates self-motivate, how well

they communicate in writing (because most of us work remotely, we rely heavily on instant

messaging), and how they deal with mistakes. We don’t expect perfection—we care more

about how quickly they identify an error, how they communicate about it, and what they

learn from it.

One Manager's Bperence The Final Interview (via Text)

When Matt Mullenweg asked Scott Berkun, a

veteran Microsoft executive and

management author, to become a “team

leader” at Automattic, he said yes—on one

condition: He wanted to write a book about

working in its unique corporate culture.

Berkun, the author of The Year Without

Pants: WordPress.com and the Future of

Work, talked with HBR about the experience.

What did you think of the job tryout

process?

I’m a huge fan, because it makes sense.

Somehow hiring managers have come to

believe that having people talk about work in

a job interview is a reliable indicator of their

ability to do work. It’s not. If you want a cake

for your wedding, you’re going to ask the

baker for a sample. You don’t ask him to talk

about his cake. Tryouts are far better

predictors of who can do the job and bea

good fit.

| Did the tryouts give you, as a manager,

more confidence in making hiring

: decisions?

To some extent, yes. | like to talk about

| hiring decisions with my team. At

Automattic, instead of talking about how a

candidate replied to interview questions, we

could give firsthand reports of how he

responded to a particular problem.

Firsthand data gave us more confidence.

Should other companies use tryouts?

Many already do, albeit under different

: names. An internship is very similar—it’s

limited-term employment that you hope will

lead to a long-term job. Apprenticeships

have existed in artistic endeavors since the

: Renaissance.

Only very rarely do people object to a tryout

or say that they’re too busy to undertake one.

The tryout may feel like an extraordinary

obligation, but that makes it a filter: We want

people who are willing to do what’s

necessary to succeed and who are passionate

enough about Automattic to make the

process a priority. Tryouts aren’t like a bake-

off; if we audition 10 people and they’re all

strong, we may hire all of them. Applicants

are competing against our standards of

quality, not against one another.

During a tryout, we try to provide a lot of

feedback. If we conclude that an applicant

isn’t going to succeed, we call an end to the

process as quickly as possible, out of respect

for everyone’s time. Sometimes a candidate

decides to end the trial.

We also prioritize coordinating the system.

It’s a huge investment of time, and we’ve

found that any single Automattic employee

can oversee only two or three auditions at

once. We now have four engineers who

perform that service for their department. In

our culture, overseeing a tryout takes higher

priority than doing your regular job; it’s

perfectly acceptable for people to

temporarily step back from their usual work

for that reason.

What in the culture was difficult to

adapt to?

| adjusted well to working remotely.

Communicating digitally was easy: Even if

you work in the same building, most of your

dealings with colleagues are done via

computer anyway. In general | really liked

working at Automattic. My frustrations had

to do with the level of ambition. The culture

of the company is to collaborate and to

make a lot of incremental changes. People

had so much freedom to take risks, and | was

disappointed by how few employees took

advantage of that to make really big bets.

What should other companies learn

from Automattic?

They could learn from its commitment to

innovation. Executives like to talk about

being innovative, but most people are really

conservative. Matt Mullenweg is willing to

try stuff out. He’s happy to see stuff not work

: —he’ll say, “Now we know a little more

about how this problem can be solved.” If

other companies adopted a model in which

the CEO was the chief experimenter, they’d

| be more successful.

When the process is over, all the people

involved have a great sense of whether they

want to work together going forward. At that

point the final step is an interview with me.

(Even as our company has grown, I continue

to spend at least a third of my time on hiring.)

I’ve changed my interview style dramatically

over the years, to stay in the spirit of the

tryout process. I conduct interviews via text-

only Skype chats or instant messaging. I don’t

know the gender or ethnicity of anyone I