SOURCE: HBS_The Whys and Hows of Feedback_Boris Groysberg.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Employee Feedback Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses the differences between positive and negative feedback, the impact on employee emotions and behavior, and the importance of developmental feedback for improving future performance.
KEYWORDS: feedback, employee emotions, performance improvement, developmental feedback, complex tasks
---

The most immediately salient difference is that feedback can be either positive or negative. Both

are necessary, but negative feedback, of course, tends to prompt the most negative responses from

recipients: feelings of anger, disappointment, embarrassment, and frustration are common. This is

particularly the case if the negative evaluation is at odds with the employee's self-evaluation, which

can lead employees to feel shocked and betrayed as well. These negative emotions can make it

difficult to use the feedback productively, as they tend to generate a flight-or-fight, cognitively

narrowed sense of behavioral options. Positive emotions, by contrast, “broaden a person's

momentary thought-action repertoire,” or, in other words, enable people to imagine and evaluate a

wider range of action. When negative feedback must be delivered, the recipient should take/be

given time to process and cool down before next steps are evaluated.

Feedback can also differ by the complexity of behavior being reviewed. Employees may receive

varying feedback on many levels, from basic skills to higher-order combinations of skills to achieve

complex goals. Feedback on simple tasks is less ego-threatening than feedback on more complex

tasks, which have taken longer to learn and are more integrated into the concept of the self. (Would

you rather be told you are a below-average typist, or a below-average writer?) In addition, it can be

harder to give useful improvement advice on complex tasks, particularly if the manager has little

practical experience in performing those tasks personally. Performance improvement for highly

complex tasks may require outside coaching.

Finally, feedback can be oriented toward the past or the future. Evaluative feedback focuses on

what was good and bad in an employee's past performance, while developmental feedback asks how

future performance can be improved. In a real-world setting, most feedback is a mix of the two, but

the weight should be toward developmental feedback. For one thing, a focus on tomorrow's skills

only makes sense in a fast-paced and frequently changing business environment.

8 Pp. 281 of Frank D. Belschak and Deanne N. Den Hartog, “Consequences of Positive and Negative Feedback: The Impact on

Emotions and Extra-Role Behaviors,” Applied Psychology: An International Review 58 (2009): 274-303.

° Yun Guo, Jiangiao Liao, Shudi Liao, and Yanhong Zhang, “The Mediating Role of Intrinsic Motivation on the Relationship

Between Developmental Feedback and Employee Job Performance,” Social Behavior and Personality 42 (2014): 731-742.

4

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbrcworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback 416-013

Feedback: Who Gives and Receives It?

As noted above, both parties should have as their goal the lowering of defensiveness so that

feedback can be heard, evaluated, responded to, and acted on in the most beneficial way for all

involved. Personality and role characteristics of the feedback givers and recipients can make this easier

or harder. Not all of these factors can be controlled, but feedback givers and receivers should be aware

of their potential impact.

Giver

A person who gives feedback needs, first and foremost, to be trusted by the recipient. If the

source is not trusted, the feedback will not be trusted either. This trust has two components. First, the

giver should be considered competent and knowledgeable in the domain under discussion, so that the

feedback will be considered valuable. Second, the giver should be trusted emotionally by the

recipient as safe, respectful, and honest. This emotional trust lowers the risk of asking for feedback or

advice.!° This trust does not develop in a vacuum, so it is worth noting, tt the fodback proces does

0 be effective, feedback needs to take place in the context of an

existing environment and relationship of trust. Preparation for a feedback session and adherence to

best practices still cannot overcome a non-trusted source.

Feedback givers should also not be seen as “other.” People are more likely to trust feedback,

especially negative feedback, if it comes from their own in-group. This in-group can be defined in

many ways. A considerable body of research shows that members of stereotyped minority groups

may discount feedback — positive or negative—from majority members, if they believe conscious or

unconscious prejudice played a role in their evaluation.'! To some extent, whether the giver and

recipient are considered to be on the same team has to do with corporate culture. Are we all first and

foremost team members, or are bosses and workers considered oppositional?

“Othering” may also come about because of different experiences in the workplace or in personal

life. It is easy, for example, for a front-lines employee or someone who works in a highly technical

field to discount criticism from a boss who has never worked customer service, or lacks the technical

expertise of the employee. Similarly, a parent may feel that a nonparent can never understand the

time-management challenges of working while raising children.

Recipient

A major factor in how people will respond to feedback is how competent they are at their jobs.

This relates to the well-known Dunning-Kruger effect, according to which “the expertise necessary to

judge a person’s performance in many domains is exactly the same expertise needed to produce

10 Byoung Kwon Choi, Hyoung Koo Moon, and Eun Young Nae, “Cognition- and Affect-Based Trust and Feedback-Seeking

Behavior: The Roles of Value, Cost, and Goal Orientations,” The Journal of Psychology 148 (2014): 603-620.

1 W. Curtis Banks, Kenneth R. Stitt, Harriet A. Curtis, and Gregory V. McQuater, “Perceived Objectivity and the Effects of

Evaluative Reinforcement upon Compliance and Self-Evaluation in Blacks,” Journal of Experimental Social Psychology 13 (1977):

452-463; Monica Biernat and Kelly Danaher, “Interpreting and Reacting to Feedback in Stereotype-Relevant Performance

Domains,” Journal Of Experimental Social Psychology 48, no. 1 (2012): 271-276.; Geoffrey L. Cohen, Claude M. Steele, and Leonard

D. Ross, “The Mentor’s Dilemma: Providing Critical Feedback Across the Racial Divide,” Personality and Social Psychology

Bulletin 25 (1999): 1302-1318; Jennifer Crocker, Kristin Voelkl, Maria Testa, and Brenda Major, “Social Stigma: The Affective