SOURCE: HBS_The Whys and Hows of Feedback.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Employee Feedback
SUMMARY: Employees want more constructive and actionable feedback, but managers may avoid it due to concerns about how it will be received.
KEYWORDS: employee feedback, feedback quality, feedback delivery, feedback avoidance, employee performance
---

it better” is not enough!). Employees must also believe that they can improve, and that their efforts to

do so will be meaningfully rewarded. If these things are not the case, improvement will not occur.

Do We Have to Give Feedback if It’s So Risky?

If feedback can actually make things worse, is it better to avoid it entirely? This is the default

position of some managers, unfortunately. A Canadian psychology journal reported, “Feedback is too

frequently perceived as just another assignment to be done and for many, this task generates anxiety.

2 Avraham N. Kluger and Angelo DeNisi, “The Effects of Feedback Interventions on Performance: A Historical Review, a Meta-

Analysis, and Preliminary Feedback Intervention Theory,” Psychological Bulletin 119 (1996): 254-284; and James W. Smither,

Manuel London, and Richard R. Reilly, “Does Performance Improve Following Multisource Feedback? A Theoretical Model,

Meta-Analysis, and Review of Empirical Findings,” Personnel Psychology 58 (2005): 33-66.

3 P. 692 of Adam P. Tolli and Aaron M. Schmidt, “The Role of Feedback, Causal Attribution, and Self-Efficacy in Goal Revision,”

Journal of Applied Psychology 93 (2008): 692-701.

2

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback 416-013

The recipients’ reactions to the feedback or the choice of words to use to deliver feedback are some of

the concerns repeatedly worrying feedback providers. Such concerns . . . may indeed lead to

procrastination and possibly avoidance.”4 Tempting though such avoidance may be, there are good

reasons for practicing regular feedback.

For one, people want feedback. Yes, feedback can be ego-threatening and sometimes contain

unwanted information. Many people, however, find lack of feedback even more anxiety-producing,

and feel that they do not receive enough high-quality, actionable feedback.5 And highly motivated,

competent employees—the ones you want to retain—tend to be the most eager to know how they are

doing. At Google, for example, employee surveys revealed that “rather than superior technical

knowledge, periodic one-on-one coaching, which included expressing interest in the employee and

frequent personalized feedback, ranked as the No. 1 key to being a successful leader.”6

When global law firm Baker McKenzie surveyed their associates, this is what they discovered:

First, associates wanted better-quality feedback on their performance, in terms of

having greater depth and breadth of feedback. “Breadth” meaning more comprehensive

feedback that covered all the key areas of performance. “Depth” meaning feedback that

goes beyond generalizations, to examples that are specific and useful. Second, associates

wanted more clarity on what was expected of them at the current job level, and what was

expected at the next job level, and what knowledge and skills were required to get there.

And thirdly, they wanted to know what development opportunities the firm had to offer

to help them get there.7

Also, avoiding feedback is a non-starter because feedback will at some point be necessary. People

and organizations cannot stay in their comfort/success zones forever. Circumstances change, and

companies must develop new strategies, new employees, and new skills. These circumstances will

require feedback. If the corporate culture is one where feedback is avoided, then any intervention will

tend to indicate an emergency, or punishment. (There is no neutral position regarding feedback. Lack

of feedback is feedback, and the message it sends is, “Performance talk is dangerous and impolitic.”)

Further, both giving and receiving feedback are complex skills that require practice to master. The day

before the big presentation to the venture capitalists is not the time to start giving someone feedback

on their persuasion skills.

What Makes Feedback Moments Effective?

So what makes feedback work? Ultimately, it’s about alignment—making sure that everyone is on

the same page about job performance, what is necessary to achieve it, and how it relates to

organizational goals. The goals of the feedback giver and recipient should be the same: to agree on

performance to date, to clarify areas of uncertainty, to surface the best information possible in order to

4 P. 261 of Amanda Baker, Dominique Perrault, Alain Reid, and Celine M. Blanchard, “Feedback and Organizations: Feedback

Is Good, Feedback-Friendly Culture Is Better,” Canadian Psychology 54 (2013): 260-268.

5 Svetlana Madzar, “Feedback Seeking Behavior,” Human Resources Development Quarterly 6, no. 4 (Winter 1995), pp. 337-349; and

Jone L. Pearce, Organizational Behavior: Real Research for Real Managers (Irvine, CA: Melvin & Leigh, 2012).

6 John Sullivan, “How Google Is Using People Analytics to Completely Reinvent HR,” http://www.tlnt.com/2013 /02/26/ how-

google-is-using-people-analytics-to-completely-reinvent-hr/, accessed December 3, 2014.

7 P. 17 of Boris Groysberg and Eliot Sherman, “Baker and McKenzie (B),” HBS No. 408-009 (Boston: Harvard Business School

Publishing, 2008).

3

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

416-013 The Whys and Hows of Feedback

maximize the employee’s performance. The primary goal of both parties is to reduce the feedback

recipient’s anxiety and ego-protection concerns so that the feedback can be acted upon appropriately.

Feedback: What It Is

Feedback is more than the knowledge of results—50 sales calls made, 100 hours billed—the kind of

information that can be obtained when playing a video game. Feedback is a response to one’s job

performance, usually from a supervisor, but possibly from peers, clients, or a 360-degree review.

Feedback usually involves analysis of performance, not merely reporting job outcomes, and involves a

human perspective, even if the feedback is given in print from anonymous sources, as in students’ end-

of-term teacher evaluations or client surveys. The interpersonal element contributes to the stress of the

situation, particularly in jobs with a subjective or interpersonal component.

Different Kinds of Feedback

Feedback can differ in several ways that affect recipients’ reactions to it.

The most immediately salient difference is that feedback can be either positive or negative. Both

are necessary, but negative feedback, of course, tends to prompt the most negative responses from