SOURCE: HBS_How The Growth Outliers Do It_Rita Gunther McGrath.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Growth Strategy
SUMMARY: The growth outlier companies are highly innovative and adaptable, but also maintain stability in leadership, strategy, and culture, which enables their steady growth.
KEYWORDS: business growth, innovation, organizational stability
---

ences in competitive behavior might offer some ex-

planations. The outliers turned out to share a lot of

practices that, although unsurprising in themselves,

add up to an intriguing, counterintuitive profile:

Only a tiny percent-

age of large companies

reliably grow the bot-

Those that do share

certain characteristics.

On the one hand, they’re built | On the other hand, they’re

for innovation. They enter new extremely stable. Chiefexecu- seem contradictory, but

markets before competitors

tom line year after year. _ 40 they’re good at experi-

mentation; they hold everyone —_— organizational structure stay

accountable for new ideas; and —_ consistent for long stretches;

they can move on a dime.

tives have come up through

the company; strategy and

client retention is unusually

high; and the corporate culture

is strong and unchanging.

HBR.ORG

Those characteristics may

stability appears to be what

makes innovation—and steady

growth—possible,

Although these companies are nimble and adap-

tive, their leadership, strategy, and values are very

stable.

Rapid Adapters

The growth outliers do a tremendous amount of ex-

perimentation and innovation. They develop and

deploy new technologies, move into new markets,

explore new business models, and even open up

new industries. They take on acquisitions and ag-

gressively seek input from people and organizations

quite unlike their own. They rapidly adjust and re-

adjust resources and are comfortable moving execu-

tives and other employees from one role to another.

They make small bets early and diversify

their portfolios. These companies take what we

call an options-oriented approach to new markets.

They tend to move earlier than competitors into

spaces that appear attractive, making small initial

investments and following up with more-substantial

ones—or getting out—as the opportunity warrants.

They are likely to pursue a constant stream of rela-

tively small initiatives.

HDFC’s history of entering new growth markets

is illustrative. In 1998 HDFC joined the Cirrus inter-

bank network so that Mastercard holders worldwide

could use its ATMs. In 2001 it became the first bank

in India to launch an international debit card, in as-

sociation with Visa. Itintroduced various credit card

innovations, including a card specifically for farm-

ers, and then reached an agreement with Tata Pipes

to offer the farmers credit. In contrast, ICICI Bank, a

key competitor, didn’t even begin to explore regular

debit cards until 2000. HDFC moved early and built

from initial success in other new markets as well,

including telebanking, mobile banking, and foreign.

exchange services. Indeed, the only market in which.

a competitor seems to have beaten it is rural India,

where the State Bank of India was well established.

Unlike their competitors, outliers appear to make

fewer big, high-risk bets—which is also consistent

with an options orientation. When we compared

Indra with its rival BAE, for instance, we found that

both had made acquisitions and divestitures during

the study period, but most of Indra’s acquisitions

were under $100 million, whereas most of BAE’s

were much higher, including its $4.5 billion acquisi-

tion of Armor Holdings, in 2007.

Finally, the outliers had diverse but related port-

folios, with enough variety to enable investment in

their core businesses even as they explored new al-

ternatives. When one segment went into decline, an-

other could be leveraged. Indra, for example, used

acquisitions to move from the defense industry into

computer systems design and financial software

solutions. Through subsequent acquisitions it built

and maintained a formidable solutions portfolio that

didn’t depend on one business model or end market.

Even the single-product outliers, Tsingtao Brewery

and Yahoo Japan, honored this principle: Tsingtao

diversified geographically, and Yahoo Japan diversi-

January-February 2012 Harvard Business Review 113

_ Infosys

_ Information

technology .

HEADQUARTERS

india.

"FOUNDED _

1981

| MARKET. CAP

HOW THE GROWTH OUTLIERS DO IT

_HDFC

_ Bank

Banks and :

credit unions

HEADOQUARTER

Inda

Japan

_ Internet search

and navigation _

HEADQUARTERS __

| FOUNDED.

eo

_ MARKET CAP

$16.58

“MARKETCAP

$20.38

|| MARKET CAP FIGURES: CAPITAL. 19 AS OF JANUARY 22, 2010,

fied by selling into new segments and offering new

services,

They’re active acquirers. The outlier compa-

nies appreciate the value of acquisitions for build-

ing new capabilities and getting into new markets

quickly. And they have a better-than-average record

of making those acquisitions work. For example, In-

dra expanded its capabilities and accessed new ge-

ographies by acquiring a strategic consultancy, Eu-

ropraxis, in 2001; a Portuguese IT company, CPC-IS,

in 2002; and an Australian IT company, Interscan, in

2007, Tsingtao has been heavily involved in domes-

tic and foreign M&A deals since its privatization in

the early 1990s, which is credited with helping it to

somewhat consolidate the highly fragmented Chi-

nese beer market. ACS used several major acquisi-

tions in 2002, 2005, and 2007 to consolidate its po-

sition and gain access to new markets. FactSet was

Outliers favor adaptability

over pure efficiency, even

though it occasionally leads

to less-than-perfect outcomes.

ug Harvard Business Review January-February 2012

: "HEADQUARTERS, :

Spain US.

FOUNDED

1983

_Cognizan

Information

_ technology

_ HEADQUARTERS __

__ FOUNDED

1994

MARKET CAP : T

8588

actually criticized for some of its activity: It spent

$92 million on acquisitions in 2005, when the com-

pany’s net income was only $72 million, Nonetheless,

it continues to acquire companies to broaden the of-

ferings it can provide to its customers.

They manage major resource allocations

centrally. At many companies, resources are held

hostage at the divisional or business-unit level.

When one division is under threat, or an opportunity

falls between units, the company can’t respond ef-

fectively because incumbent executives resist. But at

outliers, decision making with respect to major stra-

tegic challenges appears to be centrally coordinated.

They have processes that support speed

and flexibility, Outliers favor adaptability over pure

efficiency, even though it occasionally leads to less-

than-perfect outcomes. Their strategy adjustments

and resource allocation shifts are more likely to oc-

cur quarterly than annually, as are their promotions

and personnel evaluations. This allows them to be

more responsive to changes in the environment than