SOURCE: HBS_Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Pricing Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of precision pricing, differentiation, and understanding cost behavior to maximize profits in a highly competitive and deflationary business environment.
KEYWORDS: pricing strategy, customer value, cost behavior, differentiation, deflation
---

2

Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order 9-899-003

expand the zone of possible agreement by increasing perceived customer value and/or decreasing

costs. This process increases the spoils for both buyer and seller, and turns the zero sum game within

ZOPA into a non-zero sum game.

The customer always pays less than the value they perceive, but sometimes they pay a great

deal less. There are two causes for this. First, the seller has set the price too low because he or she

did not understand (or often even tried to understand) the value the customer perceived. The second

cause is competition. If your product/service is undifferentiated, your dumbest competitor will set

your price, The dumbest will not focus on customer value and will price too low, destroying the

market in the process. Thus, differentiation in the form of a unique provision of customer value

provides protection from competition. A combination of customer value and differentiation provides

the opportunity for the seller to extract value (Exhibit 3).

Understanding the “real income statement” (Exhibit 1) is particularly important with deflation

or a Jack of inflation, and the greater intensity of today’s competition. Inflation provided an easy

opportunity to reset prices and remedy mistakes. If you set the price too low, you could catch up in

the next quarter. Without inflation, you live with your mistakes.

Further, globalization and the blurring of boundaries between traditionally separate industries

(e.g., outlet stores, off-price retailers, and department stores) has led to much more competition.

There is no respite. The easy availability of capital worldwide also means that most advantages are

very temporary. This forces one to look for micro advantages. The easy macro advantages such as a

unique product are more fleeting than ever before, however. So, transaction-specific pricing for each

situation is a requirement to maximize short-term profits—and build long-term market position.

Transaction-specific pricing requires a rapid, accurate pricing process built on a strong pricing

philosophy. The real income statement provides a picture of the philosophy and the options.

The philosophy also requires a complete grasp of cost behavior, a careful specification of

goals, and a detailed understanding of leverage. The next three sections will provide these.

Yi. THE SHIFT TO FIXED COSTS

As (Exhibit 1) shows, costs are an important factor in setting prices. The cost of a particular

product line item or service interaction and the behavior of costs as volume changes have profound

effect on pricing decisions. The movement from variable to fixed costs has enormous implications.

Variable costs were in many ways easier to integrate into price making. High variable costs were one

of the major assumptions of cost-plus pricing, a previously popular, but misguided pricing approach

which is now totally obsolete. The appendix explains why cost-plus pricing is so dangerous.

The Impact of Cost Accounting on Pricing

Fixed costs produce two changes. First, it is exceedingly difficult to allocate high fixed costs

to individual items in the product/service line. This is the classic problem of incremental costing and

pricing. If each order does not need to absorb its “share” of fixed costs, one is encouraged to

calculate costs and (using any form of cost-plus pricing) prices as lower than normal. Some orders

are seen as “base loading” a facility and receive the fixed cost allocation. Other orders are viewed as

“incremental” and don’t “absorb” their “fair” share of fixed costs. One trouble is that different

competitors view different orders as incremental. A typical outcome is that each competitor prices its

existing customers’ orders to absorb all costs, and its prospective customers’ orders incrementally. In

this scenario, the competitors attack each other’s customers, eventually driving industry prices to

unsustainably low levels. This is what typically happens during recessions in cyclical, high-fixed cost

industries such as chemicals, paper and pulp, and petroleum. It happens less dramatically in many

9-999-003 Precision Pricing for Profit in the New World Order

non-cyclical, fixed cost industries. And, again less dramatically, the fixed cost allocation problem

clouds cost and profitability analysis even where it does not directly impact pricing.

How Volume Impacts Costs

The second change involves the relationship of costs to volume. With high fixed costs, total

average cost drops precipitously as unit volume increases. In the past, when fixed costs were large

plant investments, the range of unit volume over which prices dropped was limited by the plant’s

capacity. Now, where fixed costs are in product development and variable costs are often very low,

as in the software industry, fixed cost absorption continues through infinity with no addition. This

leads to enormous returns to scale for the leading firm. As unit volume increases, total cost hardly

goes up at all. When teamed with increasing customer value as unit volume goes up, the pricing

challenge and opportunity are extraordinary. These are discussed in Section V.

There are, of course, ways to change cost structure quite dramatically. Outsourcing is a

clever approach to turn fixed costs into variable costs. Instead of building its own telemarketing

center, for example, with high fixed costs, a company can outsource its telemarketing needs and pay

for each call or each sale on a variable cost basis. This typically has been why companies use

independent commission sales agents instead of a company sales force with at least some fixed costs.

Outsourcing manufacturing, logistics, computer service, etc. does the same thing.

Getting Your Goals Right

Before we leave the fixed cost topic, it is useful to focus on appropriate goals and the tradeoff

between higher unit volume, and higher prices on fewer units. We also must consider the relationship

between cost structure and customer price sensitivity. In a high fixed cost situation, there is a great

deal of temptation, and good logic, to cut price to generate incremental unit volume. After all, most

of the revenue from the additional units drops to the bottom line as profit. The opposite is true in high

variable cost industries. Incremental volume isn’t very important there. (Exhibit 4) shows that a 10%