SOURCE: HBS_The Whys and Hows of Feedback.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Employee Feedback and Evaluation
SUMMARY: This text examines how employees' competence and motivational factors influence their response to feedback in the workplace.
KEYWORDS: feedback, Dunning-Kruger effect, performance goal orientation, learning goal orientation
---

452-463; Monica Biernat and Kelly Danaher, “Interpreting and Reacting to Feedback in Stereotype-Relevant Performance

Domains,” Journal Of Experimental Social Psychology 48, no. 1 (2012): 271-276.; Geoffrey L. Cohen, Claude M. Steele, and Leonard

D. Ross, “The Mentor’s Dilemma: Providing Critical Feedback Across the Racial Divide,” Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin

25 (1999): 1302–1318; Jennifer Crocker, Kristin Voelkl, Maria Testa, and Brenda Major, “Social Stigma: The Affective

Consequences of Attributional Ambiguity,” Journal Of Personality And Social Psychology 60, no. 2 (1991): 218-228; and Jason S.

Lawrence, J. Crocker, and Hart Blanton, ”Stigmatized and Dominant Cultural Groups Differentially Interpret Positive

Feedback,” Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology 42 (2011): 165-169.

5

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

416-013 The Whys and Hows of Feedback

Recipient

A major factor in how people will respond to feedback is how competent they are at their jobs. This

relates to the well-known Dunning-Kruger effect, according to which “the expertise necessary to judge

a person’s performance in many domains is exactly the same expertise needed to produce competent

performance in the first place.”12 In other words, poor performers often fail to realize their own

incompetence, and even rate themselves highest on the domains in which they score the worst. Hence,

in the workplace, those who need feedback the most often benefit from it the least. Low performers

show very little interest in feedback and are likely to disparage negative criticism in whatever way they

can, calling into question the accuracy or relevance of the feedback. Because poor performers fail to

recognize their own incompetence, they may interpret neutral or mildly positive feedback as

negative—with all the attendant problems that come along with negative feedback—if their own image

of their performance was higher.

Assuming a baseline of competence, motivational factors can also play a major role in feedback

interactions. Within the feedback literature, a considerable amount of research has been done on how

people relate to goals, differentiating two major approaches: “a learning goal orientation, whereby

individuals focus on improving their capabilities and mastering challenging situations by learning new

skills or new things, and a performance goal orientation, whereby an individual demonstrates

competence, receives recognition for accomplishments, and avoids negative feedback about his/her

competence or performance.”13 The performance goal orientation can be focused primarily on proving

the self in a positive way, or on avoiding negative feedback. For the most part, employees focused on

learning tend to go to greater lengths to seek feedback, approaching people with experience in the area

in which they are looking to gain expertise rather than individuals with power in the organization.14

In contrast, people whose main aim it is to prove their ability are less likely to seek feedback, and when

(if) they do, they are more likely to approach people with power rather than those with experience in

the task at hand.15 The learning orientation also goes along with using feedback more effectively.

Employees who are motivated more by internal factors (intellectual challenge, the satisfaction of

accomplishment) also seek and use feedback more effectively than workers who are primarily motivated

by external rewards such as money and status.16

Relatedly, an individual’s beliefs about change have a strong impact on how that person will

respond to feedback. Part of the learning orientation, for example, is the belief that change is possible,

that improvement happens incrementally, and that effort pays off. An employee with these beliefs will

have reason to use feedback to improve, whereas a person who believes “you either got it or you don’t,”

upon finding out that he “don’t,” will see no reason to invest extra effort.17

12 P. 125 of Oliver J. Sheldon, David Dunning, and Daniel R. Ames, “Emotionally Unskilled, Unaware, and Uninterested in Learning

More: Reactions to Feedback About Deficits in Emotional Intelligence,” Journal of Applied Psychology 99 (2014): 125-137.

13 P. 607 of Byoung Kwon Choi, Hyoung Koo Moon, and Eun Young Nae, “Cognition- and Affect-Based Trust and Feedback-

Seeking Behavior: The Roles of Value, Cost, and Goal Orientations.”

14 Svetlana Madzar, “Feedback Seeking Behavior.”

15 Svetlana Madzar, “Feedback Seeking Behavior.”

16 Yun Guo, Jianqiao Liao, Shudi Liao, and Yanhong Zhang, “The Mediating Role of Intrinsic Motivation on the Relationship

Between Developmental Feedback and Employee Job Performance.”

17 Adam P. Tolli and Aaron M. Schmidt, “The Role of Feedback, Causal Attribution, and Self-Efficacy in Goal Revision.”

6

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback 416-013

Beliefs about change are to some extent individual or culturally learned18 (Asians, for example, are

more likely to attribute outstanding performance to effort and practice, while Westerners attribute it to

native talent), but organizational factors matter here as well. An employee high in organizational

cynicism, or the belief that effort will not be rewarded nor support given for development, will be

unwilling to change. At the worst, burnout or emotional exhaustion can lead employees to avoid

feedback, even to the point of creating or exacerbating a vicious cycle of underperformance and

deteriorating relationships.19 Even the most motivated employee will not seek or use feedback if they

have reason to believe that their organization will ignore or, at worst, punish their efforts.

Feedback: Where It Happens

Corporate Culture

As the above indicates, feedback is only as useful and performance-enhancing as the corporate

culture surrounding it. Organizational coherence is paramount. If the corporate mission is unclear,

strategic goals cannot be set, and individual performance cannot be linked in a meaningful way with

the organization’s performance as a whole. Lack of clarity around job descriptions or team boundaries

can also foil attempts to give, or solicit, useful feedback.

Feedback also needs to be embedded in an entire context of performance management. This involves