SOURCE: HBS_Leader's Guide to Corporate Culture.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture
TOPIC: Organizational Culture Change
SUMMARY: This text discusses how a technology company evolved its culture to drive growth and innovation in a disruptive market.
KEYWORDS: culture change, organizational transformation, strategic alignment, employee engagement, talent management
---

nology company we worked with. Though ing programs and training opportunities ive of desired change can be engaged and

it had built a strong business and invested that would help leaders feel more comfort- re-energized through training and educa-

in unique technology and top engineer- able with cultural evolution. When people tion about the important relationship be-

ing talent, its revenue growth was starting departed, the company carefully selected tween culture and strategic direction. Often

to decline as newer, nimbler competitors new leaders who would provide supporting they will support the change after they un-

made strides in a field exploding with in- values, such as caring, and increased the derstand its relevance, its anticipated bene-

novation and business model disruption. emphasis on a shared purpose. The benefits fits, and the impact that they personally can

Company leaders viewed the culture as a of this strategic and cultural shift took the have on moving the organization toward

differentiator for the business and decided form of an increasingly diverse array of inte- the aspiration. However, culture change

to diagnose, strengthen, and evolve it. We grated service offerings and strong growth, can and does lead to turnover: Some peo-

found a culture that was intensely results fo- particularly in emerging markets. ple move on because they feel they are no

cused, team based (caring), and exploratory longer a good fit for the organization, and

(a combination of enjoyment and learning). others are asked to leave if they jeopardize

FOUR LEVERS FOR EVOLVING A CULTURE

After examining the overall business strat- needed evolution.

egy and gaining input from employees, lead- Unlike developing and executing a busi- Use organizational conversations

ers aimed for a culture that was even more ness plan, changing a company’s culture is about culture to underscore the impor-

focused on learning and adopted our frame- inextricable from the emotional and social tance of change. To shift the shared norms,

work as a new language for the organization dynamics of people in the organization. We beliefs, and implicit understandings within

in its daily work. They initiated conversations have found that four practices in particular an organization, colleagues can talk one an-

between managers and employees about how lead to successful culture change: other through the change. Our integrated

to emphasize innovation and exploration. Articulate the aspiration. Much like culture framework can be used to discuss

Although it takes time to change a culture, defining a new strategy, creating a new cul- current and desired culture styles and also

we found that the company had made no- ture should begin with an analysis of the differences in how senior leaders operate.

table progr ess just one year later. And even current one, using a framework that can be As employees start to recognize that their

as it prepared for an impending sale amid openly discussed throughout the organiza- leaders are talking about new business out-

ever greater competition and consolidation, tion. Leaders must understand what out- comes—innovation instead of quarterly

employee engagement scores were on the rise. comes the culture produces and how it does earnings, for example—they will begin to

A strong culture can be a significant or doesn’t align with current and anticipated behave differently themselves, creating a

liability when it is misaligned with strat- market and business conditions. For exam- positive feedback loop.

egy. We studied a Europe-based industrial ple, if the company’s primary culture styles Various kinds of organizational conver-

services organization whose industry be- are results and authority but it exists in a sations, such as road shows, listening tours,

gan to experience rapid and unprecedented rapidly changing industry, shifting toward and structured group discussion, can sup-

changes in customer expectations, regula- learning or enjoyment (while maintaining a port change. Social media platforms encour-

tory demands, and competitive dynamics. focus on results) may be appropriate. age conversations between senior managers

The company’s strategy, which had histori- An aspirational culture suggests the and frontline employees. Influential change

cally emphasized cost leadership, needed to high-level principles that guide organiza- champions can advocate for a culture shift

shift toward greater service differentiation in tional initiatives, as at the technology com- through their language and actions. The tech-

response. But its strong culture presented a pany that sought to boost agility and flexi- nology company made a meaningful change

roadblock to success. bility amid increasing competition. Change in its culture and employee engagement by

We diagnosed the culture as highly results might be framed in terms of real and prese nt creating a structured framework for dialogue

oriented, caring, and order seeking, with a business challenges and opportunities as and cultivating widespread discussion.

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additiJoAnNalU cAoRpiYe–sF.EBRUARY 2018 HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW 9

SPOTLIGHT THE LEADER’S GUIDE TO CORPORATE CULTURE

Reinforce the desired change through through a series of biannual leadership con- ABOUT THE RESEARCH

organizational design. When a compa- ferences. The first one established a plat-

ny’s structures, systems, and processes are form for input, feedback, and the cocreation

aligned and support the aspirational culture of an organizational change plan with clear

We undertook a comprehensive study of

and strategy, instigating new culture styles cultural priorities. The president organized

organizational culture and outcomes to

and behaviors will become far easier. For these managers into teams focused on crit-

explore the link between them. We analyzed

example, performance management can be ical business challenges. Each team was re- the cultures of more than 230 companies

used to encourage employees to embody as- quired to go outside the company to source along with the leadership styles and values

pirational cultural attri butes. Training prac- ideas, to develop solutions, and to pre sent of more than 1,300 executives across a

tices can reinforce the target culture as the its findings to the group for feedback. This range of industries (including consumer