SOURCE: HBS_The Whys and Hows of Feedback_Boris Groysberg.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Feedback Dynamics in the Workplace
SUMMARY: The document examines how poor performers often fail to recognize their own incompetence and how motivational factors, such as learning vs. performance goal orientations, influence feedback-seeking behaviors and the use of feedback.
KEYWORDS: feedback, performance goals, learning goals, self-awareness, workplace dynamics
---

D. Ross, “The Mentor’s Dilemma: Providing Critical Feedback Across the Racial Divide,” Personality and Social Psychology

Bulletin 25 (1999): 1302-1318; Jennifer Crocker, Kristin Voelkl, Maria Testa, and Brenda Major, “Social Stigma: The Affective

Consequences of Attributional Ambiguity,” Journal Of Personality And Social Psychology 60, no. 2 (1991): 218-228; Jason S.

Lawrence, J. Crocker, and Hart Blanton, “Stigmatized and Dominant Cultural Groups Differentially Interpret Positive

Feedback,” Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology 42 (2011): 165-169.

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbreworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

416-013 The Whys and Hows of Feedback

nie

competent performance in the first place.”” In other words, poor performers often fail to realize their

own incompetence, and even rate themselves highest on the domains in which they score the worst.

Hence, in the workplace, those who need feedback the most often benefit from it the least. Low

performers show very little interest in feedback and are likely to disparage negative criticism in

whatever way they can, calling into question the accuracy or relevance of the feedback. Because poor

performers fail to recognize their own incompetence, they may interpret neutral or mildly positive

feedback as negative——with all the attendant problems that come along with negative feedback—if

their own image of their performance was higher.

Assuming a baseline of competence, motivational factors can also play a major role in feedback

interactions, Within the feedback literature, a considerable amount of research has been done on how

people relate to goals, differentiating two major approaches: “a learning goal orientation, whereby

individuals focus on improving their capabilities and mastering challenging situations by learning

new skills or new things, and a performance goal orientation, whereby an individual demonstrates

competence, receives recognition for accomplishments, and avoids negative feedback about his/her

competence or performance.”'3 The performance goal orientation can be focused primarily on

proving the self in a positive way, or on avoiding negative feedback. For the most part, employees

focused on learning tend to go to greater lengths to seek feedback, approaching people with

experience in the area in which they are looking to gain expertise, rather than individuals with power

in the organization."4 In contrast, people whose main aim it is to prove their ability are less likely to

seek feedback, and when (if) they do, they are more likely to approach people with power rather than

those with experience in the task at hand.!5 The learning orientation also goes along with using

feedback more effectively. Employees who are motivated more by internal factors (intellectual challenge,

the satisfaction of accomplishment) also seek and use feedback more effectively than workers who

are primarily motivated by external rewards such as money and status,!®

Relatedly, an individual's beliefs about change have a strong impact on how that person will

respond to feedback. Part of the learning orientation, for example, is the belief that change is possible,

that improvement happens incrementally, and that effort pays off. An employee with these beliefs

will have reason to use feedback to improve, whereas a person who believes “You either got it or you

don’t,” upon finding out that he “don’t,” will see no reason to invest extra effort.”

Beliefs about change are to some extent individual or culturally learned!® (Asians, for example, are

more likely to attribute outstanding performance to effort and practice, while Westerners attribute it

to native talent), but organizational factors matter here as well. An employee high in organizational

cynicism, or the belief that effort will not be rewarded nor support given for development, will be

12 p. 125 of Oliver J. Sheldon, David Dunning, and Daniel R, Ames, “Emotionally Unskilled, Unaware, and Uninterested in

Learning More: Reactions to Feedback About Deficits in Emotional Intelligence,” Journal of Applied Psychology 99 (2014): 125-137.

13 p, 607 of Byoung Kwon Choi, Hyoung Koo Moon, and Eun Young Nae, “Cognition- and Affect-Based Trust and Feedback-

Seeking Behavior: The Roles of Value, Cost, and Goal Orientations,” The Journal of Psychology 148 (2014): 603-620.

4 Svetlana Madzar, “Feedback Seeking Behavior,” Hanan Resourars Development Quarterly, vol. 6, no. 4, (Winter 1995), pp. 337-349.

15 Svetlana Madzar, “Feedback Seeking Behavior,” Human Resources Development Quarterly, vol. 6, no. 4, (Winter 1995), pp. 337-349.

16 Yun Guo, Jiangiao Liao, Shudi Liao, and Yanhong Zhang, “The Mediating Role of Intrinsic Motivation on the Relationship

Between Developmental Feedback and Employee Job Performance,” Social Behavior and Personality 42 (2014): 731-742.

7 Adam P. Tolli and Aaron M. Schmidt, “The Role of Feedback, Causal Attribution, and Self-Efficacy in Goal Revision,”

Journal of Applied Psychology 93 (2008): 692-701.

18 Julie Spencer-Rodgers et al., “The Dialectical Self-Concept: Contradiction, Change, and Holism in East Asian Cultures,”

Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin 35 (2009): 29-44.

6

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbreworld.com). Copying ar posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback 416-013

unwilling to change. At the worst, burnout or emotional exhaustion can lead employees to avoid

feedback, even to the point of creating or exacerbating a vicious cycle of underperformance and

deteriorating relationships.!° Even the most motivated employee will not seek or use feedback if they

have reason to believe that their organization will ignore or, at worst, punish their efforts.

Feedback: Where It Happens

Corporate Culture

As the above indicates, feedback is only as useful and performance-enhancing as the corporate

culture surrounding it. Organizational coherence is paramount, If the corporate mission is unclear,

strategic goals cannot be set, and individual performance cannot be linked in a meaningful way with

the organization’s performance as a whole. Lack of clarity around job descriptions or team

boundaries can also foil attempts to give, or solicit, useful feedback.

Feedback also needs to be embedded in an entire context of performance management. This involves

goal setting at all levels of the organization, from the company as a whole to the individual and a