SOURCE: HBS_Leader's Guide to Corporate Culture.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture
TOPIC: Organizational Culture Change
SUMMARY: The text discusses how a traditional manufacturer used various levers, including training, organizational structure, and leadership, to evolve its culture and become a solutions provider.
KEYWORDS: culture change, organizational structure, leadership, training, solutions provider
---

pirational cultural attri butes. Training prac- ideas, to develop solutions, and to pre sent of more than 1,300 executives across a

tices can reinforce the target culture as the its findings to the group for feedback. This range of industries (including consumer

organization grows and adds new people. initiative placed middle managers in change discretionary, consumer staples, energy

The degree of centralization and the number roles that would traditionally have been and utilities, financial and professional

of hierarchical levels in the organizational filled by vice presidents, giving them greater services, health care, industrials, and IT

structure can be adjusted to reinforce be- autonomy in fostering a learning-based cul- and telecommunications), regions (Africa,

haviors inherent to the aspirational culture. ture. The intent was to create real benefits Asia, Europe, the Middle East, North

Leading scholars such as Henry Mintzberg for the business while evolving the culture. America, Oceania, and South America), and

have shown how organizational structure The president also initiated a program to organizational types (public, private, and

and other design features can have a pro- identify employees who had positive disrup- nonprofit). We diagnosed those cultures using

online survey responses from approximately

found impact over time on how people think tive ideas and working styles. These people

25,000 employees together with interviews of

and behave within an organization. were put on proj ect teams that addressed

company managers.

key innovation priorities. The teams im-

Our analysis highlighted how strongly each

mediately began improving business re-

PUTTING IT ALL TOGETHER of the eight styles defined the organizations

sults, both in core commercial metrics and

in our study. Results ranked first, and caring

All four levers came together at a traditional in culture and engagement. After only one

second. This pattern is consistent across

manufacturer that was trying to become a year employee engagement scores jumped

company types, company sizes, regions, and

full solutions provider. The change started a full 10 points, and customer Net Promoter

industries. Order and learning ranked among

with reformulating the strategy and was Scores reached an all-time high—providing the third and fourth most common styles in

reinforced by a major brand campaign. But strong client references for the company’s many cultures.

the president understood that the compa- new and innovative solutions. Culture appears to most directly affect

ny’s culture represented the biggest barrier employee engagement and motivation,

to change and that the top leaders were the IT IS POSSIBLE— in fact, vital—to improve or- followed by customer orientation. To model its

greatest lever for evolving the culture. ganizational performance through culture relationship to organizational outcomes, we

The culture was characterized by a drive change, using the simple but powerful mod- assessed employee engagement levels for all

for results followed by caring and purpose, els and methods in this article. First leaders the companies using widely accepted survey

the last of which was unusually strong for must become aware of the culture that op- questions and arrived at customer-orientation

the industry. One employee described the erates in their organization. Next they can scores with an online questionnaire. In many

company as “a talented and committed define an aspirational target culture. Finally cases we also documented top leaders’

group of people focused on doing good for they can master the core change practices individual styles and values.

We found that employee engagement is

the planet, with genuine desire, support, of articulation of the aspiration, leadership

most strongly related to greater flexibility,

and encouragement to make a difference in alignment, organizational conversation, and

in the form of enjoyment, learning, purpose,

the community.” Whereas the broader cul- organizational design. Leading with culture

and caring. Similarly, we observed a positive

ture was highly collaborative, with flat deci- may be among the few sources of sustain-

relationship between customer orientation

sion making, leaders were seen as top-down, able competitive advantage left to compa-

and those four styles plus results. These

hierarchical, and sometimes political, which nies today. Successful leaders will stop re-

relationships, too, are surprisingly consistent

discouraged risk taking. garding culture with frustration and instead

across companies. We also found that

The top leaders reviewed their culture’s use it as a fundamental management tool.

engagement and customer orientation

strengths and the gaps in their own styles HBR Reprint R1801B are stronger when employees are in close

and discussed what was needed to achieve agreement about the culture’s characteristics.

their strategic aspirations. They agreed that Our research was influenced by the work of

BORIS GROYSBERG is the Richard P. Chapman

they needed more risk taking and autonomy countless scholars in this field, many of whom

Professor of Business Administration at

and less hierarchy and centralized decision Harvard Business School and a coauthor, with are mentioned in this article. In addition, we

making. The president restructured the Michael Slind, of Talk, Inc. (Harvard Business Review stand on the shoulders of giants such as David

leadership team around strong business line Press, 2012). Twitter: @bgroysberg. JEREMIAH LEE leads Caldwell, Jennifer Chatman, James Heskett,

leaders, freeing up time to become a better innovation for advisory services at Spencer Stuart, John Kotter, Charles O’Reilly, and many, many

advocate for the culture and to focus more and JESSE PRICE is a leader in organizational culture others who have inspired our thinking.

services at Spencer Stuart; they are cofounders of

on customers. two culture-related businesses. J. YO-JUD CHENG is a

The top team then invited a group of doctoral candidate in the strategy unit at Harvard

100 middle managers into the conversation Business School.

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

10 HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW JANUARY–FEBcRuUsAtoRmYe 2rs0e1r8vice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

FOR ARTICLE REPRINTS CALL 800-988-0886 OR 617-783-7500, OR VISIT HBR.ORG

What’s Your

Organization’s

Cultural Profile?

Before you begin an initiative to shape your

ON A SCALE OF 1–5, RATE HOW WELL EACH OF THESE STATEMENTS

organization’s culture, it’s important to

DESCRIBES YOUR ORGANIZATION.

explore where it is today. This worksheet