SOURCE: HBS_How The Growth Outliers Do It_Rita Gunther McGrath.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Information Technology Operations Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses how growth outlier companies in the technology industry build innovation into their everyday operations and maintain a stable, flexible culture focused on shared values.
KEYWORDS: innovation management, organizational culture, resource allocation, flexibility, stability
---

efficiency, even though it occasionally leads to less-

than-perfect outcomes. Their strategy adjustments

and resource allocation shifts are more likely to oc-

cur quarterly than annually, as are their promotions

and personnel evaluations. This allows them to be

more responsive to changes in the environment than

companies with rigid annual processes,

They build innovation into everyday op~-

erations. At many traditional companies, the most

powerful people run the large, well-established lines

of business, and growth-oriented innovation is man-

aged by a separate, less powerful group. Innovation

at the outliers tends to be better integrated. It’s men-

tioned prominently in recruitment materials, mar-

keting messages, and employee communications.

It’s also built into the company’s resource allocation

and promotion processes. Every year at Infosys, for

example, the senior executive team asks each unit to

name two big things it is going to do that will dramat-

ically move the business forward in real time—and

to go public with those intentions. Yahoo Japan has

identified four major growth strategies; its managers

are regularly asked to identify the next set of promis-

ing opportunities in those areas, and resources are

Andra

Sistemas

: Information —

HEADQUARTERS technology

China.

FOUNDED. |

(1903

_ MARKET CAP.

$7.28

HEADQUARTERS

Spain

_ FOUNDED

1993

| MARKET.CAP.

$3.78

liberally allocated to the best ideas that emerge from

their discussions,

Champions of Stability

As noted, the outliers are unusually stable as well as

highly flexible. Their changes are evolutionary, and

their adaptations are rapid. We saw little evidence

among them of the kinds of wrenching change that

many companies experience.

They focus management attention on cul-

ture and shared values. We found (as have others

who study high-performing organizations) that the

outliers on our list pay close attention to values, cul-

ture, and alignment. What does that mean in prac-

tice? We saw significant investments in creating an

appropriate corporate culture, in employee training,

and in executive development among these compa-

nies. Infosys, for example, is famous for its Global

Education Center, the largest dedicated corporate-

education facility in the world, with the capacity to

train 14,000 students at any one time. A recent MBA

thesis examining the culture of HDFC Bank found

that in employee surveys the bank scored high on

organizational effectiveness, employee engagement,

and a supportive environment.

They avoid dramatic divestitures. Our

graduate-school researchers looked hard for in-

stances in which growth outliers exited segments

or canceled major projects. Nevertheless, they un-

covered almost no instances of sudden, disruptive

exits—a finding that surprised us. These companies

tend to reallocate resources gradually rather than to

dramatically divest or restructure. They use industry

evolution as an opportunity to leave old businesses

and enter new, higher-growth segments.

Cognizant, for instance, made nine strategic ac-

quisitions but no divestitures during the period of

our study. The company, a 1994 spin-off of Dun &

Bradstreet, began by offering straightforward tech-

Krka

_ HEADQUARTERS _

_ Slovenia

MARKET CAP

$3.2B

FactSet

Research

Anformation collec-

tion and delivery __

Group

Pharmaceuticals _

HEADQUARTERS 7

nology services, Over the years, it moved into pro-

fessional consulting services and differentiated itself

with a strong industry focus and colocation of its

teams with clients. It shifted technology and people

from low-growth businesses such as plain-vanilla

business process outsourcing to people-intensive,

high-touch businesses such as complete, complex

software solutions. This shift occurred without the

wholesale downsizing that Satyam Computer Ser-

vices and other competitors experienced.

They hold on to their talent. One of the im-

plications of executing transformations without

wrenching changeis that talented employees are less

likely to have their careers cut short unnecessarily,

Like Cognizant, the other outliers are slow to down-

size, and their habit of gradually moving resources

into new businesses means that emerging leaders

have new places to go. The head of strategy for In-

fosys, describing an evolutionary path similar to

Cognizant’s, makes this point: “When we decide to

get out of something, we slow down on allocating re-

sources to it. It finds its way to insignificance in a pe-

riod of time. You don’t need to chop it off—you need

to let it live its life. Since we are in a talent business,

it’s easy for us to repurpose the leadership and the

talent.” The recognition that talent needs a place to

go is complemented by a commitment to employee

training. The combination probably explains why

senior managers nearly always come from inside the

company.

They don’t change high-level strategies

quickly. Our study period was a tumultuous time:

It included the burst of the dot-com bubble, the

tragedy of 9/11, the global housing and credit bub-

bles, the introduction of the euro, wars in Iraq and

Afghanistan, the explosion of the internet as a ve-

hicle for commerce, and the Great Recession of 2008.

Even so, the outliers’ strategies remained remark-

ably stable. Our interviews with their leaders are

HBR.ORG

Natural gas _

distribution

and marketing __

HEADQUARTERS

u j

_ FOUNDED.

1906

| MARKET CAP

$2.6B

Factors

That Did |

Not Explain

Stead

Gro

Industry

position

Age of firm

Geography

Emerging vs

developed

economy

Ownership

structure

Global

footprint

January-February 2012 Harvard Business Review 115

HOW THE GROWTH OUTLIERS DO IT

HBR.ORG

peppered with references to a few clear and simple

strategic priorities, to the importance of building

culture and developing talent, and to leveraging core

capabilities.

At Tsingtao Brewery, after the sudden death of

its hard-driving president Peng Zuoyi in 2001, sub-

sequent leaders committed to following through

on his international expansion strategy. When ACS

was founded, in 1983, its CEO expressed his com-

mitment to making it Spain’s most profitable public

construction company; that strategy is still in place.

Atmos Energy is now executing the strategy crafted

in 1997 by a former CEO, leveraging efficiency in its

regulated business and driving growth in its unreg-

ulated businesses. FactSet’s strategy statement has

not changed at all since the company’s founding in

1978, despite radical shifts in underlying technol-

ogies and an explosion of information relevant to

key clients.