SOURCE: HBS_The CEO of Aotomattic on Holding Auditions to Build a Strong Team.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Hiring and Recruitment
SUMMARY: The CEO of Automattic discusses their unique hiring process, including text-only interviews and a 'tryout' period, to find employees who are a strong cultural fit and will thrive in the long-term.
KEYWORDS: hiring process, cultural fit, long-term employment, tryout period, recruitment
---

to spend at least a third of my time on hiring.)

I’ve changed my interview style dramatically

over the years, to stay in the spirit of the

tryout process. I conduct interviews via text-

only Skype chats or instant messaging. I don’t

know the gender or ethnicity of anyone I

interview; I see only the words on the screen.

It’s as close to a double-blind process as you

can get. I’m looking mainly for passion and

cultural fit. Of the people who make it to the

final interview, 95% get a job offer—a

testament to the effectiveness of our

approach.

Even when we don’t ultimately offer

someone a position, he has obtained valuable

information about what we viewed as his

strengths and weaknesses. If we see

potential, we’ll encourage him to continue

developing his skills and reapply. Repeat applicants tend to be strong, because they’ve

taken the feedback to heart and worked to improve; we’ve hired many of them.

We’re In It for the Long Haul

Trials don’t just help us better determine who will succeed at Automattic; they help

potential employees avoid big problems down the road. If a working relationship sours

after a few months, the company can just let the person go. It’s not the best outcome for

anyone—we still have to deal with turnover costs—but for the employee, it’s terrible. She

» may have quit another job to accept the one she’s now losing. Maybe she has moved across

the country. She’s left with a short-term job on her résumé, which can be a red flag for

future employers.

Trials also help potential employees avoid

big problems down the road.

When we hire someone at Automattic, we want the relationship to last for decades. That’s

not the way most Silicon Valley companies operate. (See, for instance, “Tours of Duty: The

New Employer-Employee Compact,” HBR June 2013.) But we feel strongly that the most

productive relationships are formed over years, not months. If you’re making a movie, it

might be reasonable to bring people together for the time required to film it and then move

on. But if you’re trying to build products that will change the world, it’s going to take much

longer, and there’s value in retaining people for a large chunk of their careers.

Some people say that younger workers have a different notion of job tenure and want to

move around more frequently. That may be, but I think companies, too, have changed. Ifa

company treats people as if they’Il be around for a while, managers develop a different

sensibility when it comes to investing in and retaining people. Loyalty is a two-way street.

Overall, we end up hiring about 40% of the people who try out with us. In 2013 we hired

101 people, and only two of them didn’t work out. In the entire history of the company

we’ve hired 270 people, and only 40 of them are no longer here.

Our flexible-work philosophy is one reason we use this unique hiring process: We have to

go to great lengths to identify people who will thrive in our culture. Outsiders have always

questioned whether our system of limited supervision would be effective as we grew. “It’s

fine when you’re at 10 or 15 people, but when you get to 30, it falls apart,’ they’d say. After

we passed 30 people, we started hearing that the magic number was 100—and then 150.

Now that we’re approaching 250 employees, we still have no significant issues.

There are some quirks in the way we work that tryouts help us address. For instance, we

tend not to hire people with little professional experience, because our lack of structure

may be too unfamiliar to them. But that doesn’t mean we never hire young people—we’ve

acquired more than one talented teenager. (And I was 19 when I cofounded WordPress.)

Many of our workers were self-employed or freelance at some point in their careers, which

helps them understand how to be self-directed.

Auditions may not be the right process for your workplace, but you probably could

augment a traditional interview process in order to move beyond appearance to real

potential. A candidate assessment that mimics the actual work the candidate must do to

succeed will give you the best hiring ROI. Maybe it’s a trial; maybe it’s a presentation;

maybe it’s a short-term assignment that can be done in an afternoon.

SHort-tern assig ime

Nothing you do for your company has as much impact as putting the right people around

the table. The aphorism is true: You can’t manage your way out of a bad team. An approach

to hiring that genuinely identifies real skill and fit will give you the best shot at assembling

the right team.

Matt Mulle NWEg is the founder of Automattic and creator of the open source WordPress software.

This article is about HIRING

@) FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

Related Topics: LEADERSHIP

Comments