SOURCE: HBS_The Whys and Hows of Feedback.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Cross-cultural Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses how national cultural differences can impact the effectiveness of feedback practices in multinational companies.
KEYWORDS: cultural differences, feedback practices, multinational companies, performance appraisal, attribution bias
---

8

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback 416-013

National Culture

There is a vast body of literature on cultural differences, particularly around communication,

cooperation, and competition. Cultures vary across a number of relevant dimensions—assertiveness,

power distance, individualism/collectivism—that will affect feedback.27 In particular, a divide has

been noted between Asian and Western cultures. Asians may be less prone to the self-serving

attributional bias that can lead employees to overestimate their performance.28 However, seeking or

giving feedback may be avoided in Asian cultures as it could cause the loss of face or upset group

dynamics.29 Some Latin cultures as well may find formal feedback systems, particularly competitive

ones, to be destructive of organizational culture.30 Because the effect of different feedback techniques

may vary across cultures—for example, 360-degree feedback may cause stress in cultures with a high

power distance between subordinates and superiors—it is important to recognize cultural differences

when developing performance appraisal and feedback processes in multinational companies.31

Cultural differences, however, should not be magnified out of proportion.32 Culture may affect

particular behavioral norms around giving feedback, as well as the value of aspects of the equation (the

social cost of seeking feedback, for example, might be higher in shame-based cultures), but it doesn’t

change the variables. The building blocks of good feedback practices are similar everywhere:

 Motivation (employees high in internal motivation, rather than being motivated exclusively by

rewards, use feedback most effectively, and good feedback practices can increase motivation),

 Trust (for feedback to be effective, the recipient must trust the giver’s goodwill and competence,

and the information and process used to develop and deliver the feedback),

27 Regina Eckert, Bjørn Z. Ekelund, William A. Gentry, and Jeremy F. Dawson, “’I Don’t See Me Like You See Me, But Is That a

Problem?’ Cultural Influences on Rating Discrepancy in 360-degree Feedback Instruments,” European Journal Of Work &

Organizational Psychology 19, no. 3 (2010): 259-278; and Hazel R. Markus and Shinobu Kitayama, “Culture and the Self:

Implications for Cognition, Emotion, and Motivation,” Psychological Review 98, no. 2 (1991): 224-253.

28 Amy H. Mezulis, Lyn Y. Abramson, Janet S. Hyde, and Benjamin L. Hankin, “Is There a Universal Positivity Bias in

Attributions? A Meta-Analytic Review of Individual, Developmental, and Cultural Differences in the Self-Serving Attributional

Bias,” Psychological Bulletin 130, no. 5 (2014): 711-747.

29 Harriet A. MacDonald et al., “Cultural Differences in the Motivation to Seek Performance Feedback: A Comparative Policy-

Capturing Study,” Human Performance 26 (2013): 211-235.

30 A. Davila and M. Elvira, “Psychological Contracts and Performance Management in Mexico,” International Journal of Manpower

28 (2007): 384-402; and T.T. Selvarajan, and Peggy A. Cloninger, “Can Performance Appraisals Motivate Employees to Improve

Performance? A Mexican Study,” The International Journal of Human Resource Management 23, no. 15 (2012): 3063-3084.

31 Frank Shipper, Richard C. Hoffman, and Denise M. Rotondo, “Does the 360 Feedback Process Create Actionable Knowledge

Equally Across Cultures?” Academy of Management Learning & Education 6 (2007): 33-50; Lanny Entrekin and Yee Wah Chung,

“Attitudes Towards Different Sources of Executive Appraisal: A Comparison of Hong Kong Chinese and American Managers

in Hong Kong,” International Journal Of Human Resource Management 12 (2001): 965-987; Chin-Ju Tsai and Wen-Lai Wang,

“Exploring the Factors Associated with Employees’ Perceived Appraisal Accuracy: A Study of Chinese State-Owned

Enterprises,” International Journal of Human Resource Management 24 (2013): 2197-2220; and Clive Fletcher and Elissa L. Perry,

“Performance Appraisal and Feedback: A Consideration of National Culture and a Review of Contemporary Research and

Future Trends” in Handbook of Industrial, Work and Organizational Psychology, Volume 1: Personnel Psychology, eds. N. Anderson,

D.S. Onez, H.K. Sinangil, and C. Viswesvaran (Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 2002), pp. 127-144.

32 See, for example, Lowell Gaertner, Constantine Sedikides, and Huajian Cai, “Wanting to Be Great and Better but not Average:

On the Pancultural Desire for Self-Enhancing and Self-Improving Feedback,” Journal Of Cross-Cultural Psychology 43 (2012): 521-526.

9

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

416-013 The Whys and Hows of Feedback

 Organizational alignment and clarity (performance can only be judged against metrics and

goals; an organization that cannot define success for itself cannot define good or bad

performance in its employees), and

 A supportive infrastructure (feedback efforts need to be culturally normalized and rewarded,

and the skills of giving and receiving feedback should be coached).

Also, cultures are not immutable; some research suggests, for example, that modernization efforts

in China may be leading to more Western-style preferences in feedback.33

Leaders who are working in a foreign country—or even moving from one distinct region of their

home country to another—are advised to get a formal or informal “communication coach” to help

ensure that difficult conversations, such as those around performance, are handled effectively. One

cultural difference to be alert to is the preference for straightforward versus indirect communication.

In some cultures, feedback is sought and given directly, whereas in others feedback is conveyed and

sought indirectly.34 In many Western cultures, particularly the U.S., self-promotion is considered

appropriate and not off-putting. Even within a particular country, industry and organizational cultures

can differ on this dimension, so it is good practice for leaders to pay attention to the feedback norms in

their particular environment before attempting to give or solicit feedback.

Erin Meyer offered the following practical advice in the Harvard Business Review for gauging a

culture’s feedback practices:

One way to begin gauging how a culture handles negative feedback is by listening to

the types of words people use. More direct cultures tend to use what linguists call

upgraders, words preceding or following negative feedback that make it feel stronger,

such as absolutely, totally, or strongly: “This is absolutely inappropriate,” or “This is

totally unprofessional.” By contrast, more indirect cultures use more downgraders, words