SOURCE: HBS_The Whys and Hows of Feedback.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Performance Feedback
SUMMARY: Provides guidance on effectively giving and receiving performance feedback, emphasizing active listening, agreeing on next steps, and follow-up.
KEYWORDS: performance review, feedback process, employee development, communication skills, professional growth
---

about linking that performance to team, understand: avoid making excuses or denying

departmental, and organizational goals. All of the points made. Remember, it is your

these dots should be connected so that the manager’s opinion of your job performance that

employee sees the relevance of what is being said. matters. If you don’t understand the success

criteria, ask.

Listen actively and watch for the recipient’s

reaction (body language and facial expressions During the session, acknowledge feedback with

convey reactions as well). Summarize what you ongoing verbal and nonverbal reinforcement.

hear in any reactions.

If you have ideas for resources that would help

Discuss next steps, both positive and negative your performance, mention them.

consequences of behaviors, issues surrounding

non-improvement, and opportunities for future Summarize what you heard and what you

growth. Ask what the employee needs in order to understand the feedback to mean.

improve—practice? Coaching? A stretch

Thank the feedback giver for their time and

assignment? The chance to delegate less-critical

effort.

responsibilities to put more effort into the high-

value activities? Summarize what you hear.

Together, discuss the feedback and agree on next

steps and conclusions of the exchange. If you

cannot agree, agree to table the discussion and

either escalate or revisit it at a later date.

Close the session and thank the recipient for their

time and work in preparing for it.

Source: Compiled by casewriters.

14

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback 416-013

After the session

Giver Receiver

Follow up on any action items—setting up a Do not act on the feedback immediately. Instead,

subsequent session, enrolling the employee in take some time to reflect on it, ideally in writing.

development opportunities, whatever was decided Jot down the major points of the session

on. It is important to model the behavior of taking immediately after the meeting (or during the

the feedback back into the work environment meeting if possible), revisiting the notes after a

instead of closing the door on the session. brief reflection period of a few days to process

the information further.47

When some time has passed, ask for feedback

about the session itself. What was helpful? What You may find that there are things you are

could you improve on as a feedback giver? unclear about. A major motive for seeking

feedback can be lack of clarity about earlier

Be patient! Sometimes feedback may make things

feedback, so you are not alone! Schedule a

worse briefly, as people become more self-

follow-up session if necessary.

conscious or have to think more about tasks that

had become somewhat automatic. Decide on what next steps you will take in

response to the feedback, and communicate

these to the feedback giver and whoever else is

appropriate.

Source: Compiled by casewriters.

Conclusion

Feedback is essential to psychological well-being and invaluable to job performance and

professional development. Feedback is also inevitable—the social human brain can interpret nearly any

interaction as referring to one’s own behavior—and hence, should be intentional. Giving and receiving

feedback, though it may feel uncomfortable, is a lifetime skill to develop and hone.

47 Frederick Anseel, Filip Lievens, and Eveline Schollaert, “Reflection as a Strategy to Enhance Task Performance After

Feedback,” Organizational Behavior and Human Processes 1 (2009): 23-35.

15

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.