SOURCE: Here's_The_Real_Reason_Service_Guarantees_Work.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Customer Service Guarantee
SUMMARY: Complaints are gifts that can help companies improve their products or services and build stronger customer relationships.
KEYWORDS: customer service, service guarantee, complaint resolution, customer loyalty, customer relationship
---

[Document: Here's_The_Real_Reason_Service_Guarantees_Work.pdf]

strategic marketing expert and the author of Marketing Above the Noise:

Achieve Strategic Advantage with Marketing that Matters. "A complaint is

actually a gift from a customer. Research shows a complaint that is resolved

quickly and effectively makes for a more satisfied and more loyal customer

than one who has never complained."

Customers who take the time to tell you what you are doing wrong are

building a relationship with a company. They're interested in improving the

product or service.

"They care about you and want you to serve them better. And they are thrilled

when they see changes based on their feedback," Popky says.

Getty

Going above and beyond

A service guarantee is often -- but not always -- a sign that the company

intends to go above and beyond when it comes to customer service.

Take Gold Eagle, an automotive supply store in the Chicago area with a sizable

e-commerce business. It offers a 100% satisfaction guarantee to all customers,

which notes:

We want you to enjoy our quality product for up to 180 days and enjoy it! If for

some reason you don’t like it during this time, return it for a full refund or credit.

Our guarantee covers against product defects, in which we will repair it, replace

it, or credit your purchase price if we are able to do neither.

But as Steve Wimmer, the company's brand manager, says, the real meaning

of the service guarantee goes far beyond refunds.

"Our outward-facing promise is that we’ll make it right," he says, "No matter

what."

Practically speaking, that means doing things other companies wouldn't

consider. Once, the company bid on a purse on eBay and had it shipped to a

customer. Another time, it agreed to refinish a floor after a not-for-floors

product spilled on a customer's hardwood floors. And another time, it bought

a customer new rims for a Nissan.

"Because most of our products ship through Amazon, we get a lot of shipping-

related complaints," he says. "Technically, that’s on Amazon, but we still ship

replacement units at our expense so that consumers don’t have to worry about

the hassle."

In other words, customer service guarantees work not because of what they

say, but because of what they mean And that is: We'll stand behind the

product or service we sell. And we'll go the extra mile if the customer isn't

satisfied.

Christopher Elliott

Christopher Elliott is the founder of Elliott Advocacy, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that

empowers consumers to solve their problems and helps those who can't. He's the author of

numerous books on consumer advocacy and writes weekly columns for King Features Syndicate,

USA Today, and the Washington Post. If you have a consumer problem you can't solve, contact him

directly through his advocacy website. You can also follow him on Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn,

or sign up for his daily newsletter.

Source link: https://www.forbes.com/sites/christopherelliott/2019/02/02/heres-the-real-reason-

service-guarantees-work/#5685887411cc