SOURCE: Here's_The_Real_Reason_Service_Guarantees_Work.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Uncategorized
SUMMARY: Could not generate summary
KEYWORDS: 
---

[Document: Here's_The_Real_Reason_Service_Guarantees_Work.pdf]

4,825 views | Feb 2, 2019,10:13am EST

Here's The Real Reason Service

Guarantees Work*

Christopher Elliott Senior Contributor

Travel

I'm a consumer advocate. I write about customer service.

Are "100 percent satisfaction" service guarantees too good to be true? After all,

mistakes happen and customers sometimes do have complaints and that can't

be satisfied.

Short answer: They are not too good to be true -- as long as you read between

the lines and mind the asterisk.

"It is not realistic to truly have zero complaints," says Ronald Hess, an

associate professor of Marketing at William & Mary's Raymond A. Mason

School of Business. "Especially when a human delivers a service."

Many consulting firms promise their clients they'll reach "zero" complaints,

even though that is plainly impossible. "Certainly, a thorough examination of

metrics and journey mapping can improve the service process – sometimes

significantly," he says.

Getty

The legend of Hampton by Hilton's "100%" guarantee

One of my favorite service guarantee stories is a legend, told to me several

times over the years by Hampton executives.

Here's the Hampton guarantee:

Enjoy a clean and fresh Hampton bed and free Wi-Fi. Wake up each morning to

our free, hot breakfast with fresh-baked waffles and hearty oatmeal with

toppings.

Plus, you can count on friendly, helpful service and so much more.

Guaranteed. If you're not satisfied, we don't expect you to pay.

That's our commitment and your guarantee. That's 100% Hampton.

As the story goes, a frequent guest decided to capitalize on the "If you're not

satisfied, we don't expect you to pay" part of the guarantee. Over a period of

many months, he stayed in numerous Hamptons. At the end of his visit, he

would complain about something minor -- missing item at breakfast or a

thermostat that didn't didn't keep his room perfectly comfortable -- knowing

that it would result in a comped room.

It worked. The hotel zeroed out his bill dozens of times -- until he got caught.

Hampton flagged the multiple freebies on his loyalty program account.

Finally, a hotel executive sent the guest a letter saying that, given the number

of complaints, it was "impossible" to satisfy him, and suggested he take his

business elsewhere.

Guests like Ricky Krisle, a computer business owner from Springfield, Tenn.,

says that's the problem with service guarantees like Hampton's. "It takes a lot

of problems for me to feel entitled to a free night," he says.

Krisle invoked the Hampton guarantee when he stayed at a property in

Huntsville, Ala., recently and the heat did not work.

"It got down to 38 that night and by 1 a.m. was in the low 60s in the room," he

remembers. "I didn't realize the thermostat was not working until I woke up

getting cold. The manager came up and looked at it and apologized and said

he didn't have any rooms available for me to move to and he would comp my

room for this night."

Even so, he says he would have gladly accepted less for the inconvenience.

"I would have liked a 25% discount but they don't offer those at Hampton," he

says.

Getty

What's a guarantee really worth?

Other companies have seen the value of guarantees but are careful to qualify

them. Take G1G, a travel insurance site that offers a service guarantee. But,

like buying travel insurance itself, you have to read the terms carefully.

The company says it requires all providers to have an A.M. Best rating of no

lower than an A, which ensures customers will only work with the best.

It adds,

Building on that foundation, we have since elevated our quality assurance to

include an analysis of a company's BBB report, customer reviews, claims payout

ratio, reinsurers credit history, and other benchmarks that assist in connecting

you with only the best products in the world. This often means making the

decision of not offering products and underwriters that fall below our standards.

"The company's guarantee is a promise to stay with them all the way to the

end," says Zubair Jeewanjee, G1G's chief executive. "We help our customers

throughout the whole process of purchasing a travel insurance plan from start

to finish, and what we do makes the process easy."

That includes getting an insurance quote and then ensuring a customer care

expert can explain what is -- and isn't covered.

"So the customer knows what to expect and there are no surprises while

traveling," adds Jeewanjee.

While most claims are problem-free, some can be complicated. Travel

insurance websites use their claims resolution record to differentiate

themselves from one another, with the best ones promising to fight for every

claim. It's a highly competitive business.

Getty

Should we try to reduce complaints to zero?

Service guarantees also imply that you'll never complain about a product. But

as someone who has consulted with companies who developed warranties like

this, I can tell you that you don't necessarily want to eliminate complaints.

Instead, you want to promise your customers that when they complain, you'll

be their advocate.

I remember a well-known travel management company in the early 2000s

that promised to pay customers when something went wrong. The guarantee

failed because what customers really wanted was an advocate to help them

work through the inevitable problems with airlines, car rental companies and

hotels.

"I don't think you really want to get to zero complaints," says Linda Popky, a

strategic marketing expert and the author of Marketing Above the Noise:

Achieve Strategic Advantage with Marketing that Matters. "A complaint is

actually a gift from a customer. Research shows a complaint that is resolved

quickly and effectively makes for a more satisfied and more loyal customer

than one who has never complained."

Customers who take the time to tell you what you are doing wrong are

building a relationship with a company. They're interested in improving the

product or service.

"They care about you and want you to serve them better. And they are thrilled