SOURCE: HFT Mail Merge.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020\Customer Academy_Len_2020\Len Session 1
TOPIC: Customer Service
SUMMARY: This document invites employees to a customer focus academy led by a Harvard Business School professor to improve customer service and the customer experience.
KEYWORDS: customer service, customer focus, continuous improvement, customer experience, learning and development
---

[Document: HFT Mail Merge.docx]

«GreetingLine»

The customer and customer service should always be at the heart of everything we do and every decision we make.

Periodically we should take a moment to reassess and check-in that we have not lost sight of this core mission. With this in mind, it is my great pleasure to invite and welcome you to the up-and-coming BBRC Customer Focus Academy.

I am excited to share that we have a Harvard Business School Professor, Len Schlesinger, who will be running the sessions, live and via Zoom.  Len is a customer expert and practitioner of what he teaches.  He has been at Harvard since the late 70’s and serves on a number of impressive boards.  I am confident you will get a lot of value from Len’s sessions.  His 3-part monthly Zoom learning series is titled, Reimagining the Service “Trinity”:  Digital, Customers and Team.

I look forward to your involvement, your questions, and most importantly the actions and changes you put in place following Len’s sessions.  Learning is a critical aspect of our continuous improvement culture, although taking action and making changes is what produces the benefit.  If I could ask one thing from you, if you can identify just 1 thing you’ll do differently at the end of each session, I know you will not only grow as a leader and our business will become better, but more importantly our customers will benefit.  At the end of the day, it’s about the customer, always.

Thank you again for all your hard work and effort.  It is a privilege to be able to join you for the upcoming Customer Academy series.

Please keep your eyes out for further calendar invites and prep-materials for each session.

It's about the customer, always

See you soon,

Brett