SOURCE: HFT - Feb 2020 (Day 1) - Final (no video).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Retail Operations Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the company's operational challenges and opportunities in systems, logistics, and supplier relationships, and their impact on the business.
KEYWORDS: systems, logistics, suppliers, operational challenges, growth potential
---

[Document: HFT - Feb 2020 (Day 1) - Final (no video).pdf]

great position for the future. the barrier to entry is it does create a moat

reasonably low

Pentagon – Triangle

TRIANGLE

Win? Why? Lot or Little? Better or Worse? Does anyone care? Is it sustainable?

Our systems are behind ‘best in class’ retailers by some Better. Yes, it is starting to We have a long way to

way. We are gradually getting better in this impact our growth, and catch up, before we

area however our ability to lauch new is preventing us from a could debate if we

software into the business has been strong digital presence would have a

Systems No Lot poor with our new rostering software sustainable lead

and financial software

implementation taking too long and

far from seamless.

We are operating well with the current structure, but Better. Yes, we care as it has an As per systems above,

‘we don’t know what we don’t know’ so we continue We have agreed new pricing with the immediate impact on we don’t have an

to investigate different methods of distributing our stock Chinese entities of DHL and this has our cost of goods and advantage to sustain

made a differnce in the consistancy of ability to run our stores

deliveries into stores. leaner

Logistics No Little

We are currently doing a ground up

costing of the cost vs benefit of more

warehouses in markets, vs centralied

warehousing, with the potential to

even shrink the Australian warehouse.

We think as we continue to grow our business and Better. Our customers don’t see It is a barrier as our

become more meaningful to our suppliers, we can say With talk of big brands like Charming this, other than in the business requires a

we are winning in this area. Charlie closing and Forever 21 going retailprice and the certain level of turnover

Suppliers Yes Little into chapter 11 our financial strength quality of the goods we to sustain the newness

and paying bills on time put us in a deliver to market, but etc, so as we get bigger

great position for the future. the barrier to entry is it does create a moat

reasonably low

Systems

Logistics

Suppliers

Win?

No

No

Yes

TRIANGLE

Why? Lot or Little? Better or Worse? Does anyone care? Is it sustainable?Our

systems are behind ‘best in class’ retailers by some Better. Yes, it is starting to W e have a long way to

way. W e are gradually getting better in this impact our growth, and catch up, before we

area however our ability to lauch new is preventing us from a could debate if we

software into the business has been strong digital presence would have a

Lot poor with our new rostering software sustainable leadand

financial software implementation taking too long and

far from seamless.

W e are operating well with the current structure, but Better. Yes, we care as it has an As per systems above,

‘we don’t know what we don’t know’ so we continue W e have agreed new pricing with the immediate impact on we don’t have an

to investigate different methods of distributing our stock Chinese entities of DHL and this has our cost of goods and advantage to sustainmade

a differnce in the consistancy of ability to run our stores

deliveries into stores. leanerLittle

W e are currently doing a ground up

costing of the cost vs benefit of more

warehouses in markets, vs centralied

warehousing, with the potential to

even shrink the Australian warehouse.

W e think as we continue to grow our business and Better. Our customers don’t see It is a barrier as our

become more meaningful to our suppliers, we can say W ith talk of big brands like Charming this, other than in the business requires a

we are winning in this area. Charlie closing and Forever 21 going retailprice and the certain level of turnover

Little into chapter 11 our financial strength quality of the goods we to sustain the newness and paying bills on time put us in a deliver to market, but etc, so as we get bigger

great position for the future. the barrier to entry is it does create a moatreasonably

low

Where are we winning?

Where do we want to win?

What are our EST’s?................................

EVERY CHANNEL

POSITIONAL

SIZE & LOCATION

PLACE

PROMOTIONAL PERSONALISATION

LAYOUT & DESIGN

SYSTEMS

PRODUCT

COMMUNICATION INTENSITY &

ASSORTMENT

STYLE &

FASHION

ETHICAL &

SUSUTAINABLE

SERVICE

LOGISTIC SUPPLIERS

S

KNOWLEDGE PEOPLE VALUE

PRICE

CLIMATE

QUALITY

PLACE

Win? Why? Lot or Little? Better or Worse? Does anyone care? Is it sustainable?

Size

Location

Layout

Every Channel

PRODUCT

Win? Why? Lot or Little? Better or Worse? Does anyone care? Is it sustainable?

Style & Fashion

Intensity &

Assortment

Ethical &

Sustainable

VALUE

Win? Why? Lot or Little? Better or Worse? Does anyone care? Is it sustainable?

Price

Quality

PEOPLE

Win? Why? Lot or Little? Better or Worse? Does anyone care? Is it sustainable?

Service

Knowledge

Climate

COMMUNICATION

Win? Why? Lot or Little? Better or Worse? Does anyone care? Is it sustainable?

Positional

Promotional

Personalisation

TRIANGLE

Win? Why? Lot or Little? Better or Worse? Does anyone care? Is it sustainable?

Systems

Logistics

Suppliers

Thank you!

Case Study Discussion

Brett Blundy

CEOs CFOs

(remain here) (Break-out)

Splitting the Group

CEOs (Remain) … CFOs(Break-out)

1 Hour

Digital

Brett Blundy

Social Comparison

93

BBRC WORLDWIDE

You Can Not Delegate Digital

94

BBRC WORLDWIDE

Website Review – Break Into Groups of 3

Each group pulls a piece Teams have 15 mins to: Teams will have 5 mins

1 2 3

of paper from a jar. to present their findings

Purchase item … record

Piece of paper lists a how long it took from One great thing

website & 1 item to start to finish (up to the

purchase point of buy)

One thing that needs to

be improved

Go through the buying Record all comments /

process up to the point observations / issues /

Shared learnings

of purchase – Enter all surprise features /