SOURCE: HFT - Feb 2022.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2022
TOPIC: Metaverse and Virtual Commerce
SUMMARY: The text discusses the development of the Metaverse, a virtual world with integrated commerce, NFTs, and real-person interaction, which is expected to significantly impact traditional retail and ecommerce.
KEYWORDS: Metaverse, Virtual Commerce, Ecommerce, Retail, NFT
---

[Document: HFT - Feb 2022.pdf]

persons avatar, etc.

Here are some videos that will assist your understanding -

This video is a compilation of Metaverses that we’re soon to launch publicly. Infinite Reality Sizzle Reel on Vimeo

This video is a virtual store example we built in 2 days for a brand partnership with Raycon(earbuds) and Walmart (transaction) https://vimeo.com/thunderstudioslbc/review/671521137/d973035ac0

We have a contract with UMG (unannounced) to bring their entire lineup of artists into the Metaverse and broaden their commerce and transaction opportunities. This video is a broadcast view (not first person) of an avatar

exploration experience, with integrated commerce, NFTs, real persons in the Metaverse and an example of live video chat. UMG_Sizzle.mp4 on Vimeo

I won’t ramble on, but you need a Metaverse first strategy. All these videos are URL experiences, not downloaded software. The Metaverse is the harmonic convergence of real time social interaction, gaming and entertainment

and it’s going to forever change traditional retail and significantly increase the percentage of ecommerce quickly. A Metaverse strategy will solve the abandoned cart problem of online retail.

On February 9th, 10thand 11thduring SuperBowlweek we’re hosting a Summit for current and potential investors, journalists, brand partners, content partners and journalists to showcase the Metaverse and Introduce Infinite

Reality to the World. If you or any of your staff have interest in attending I’d be pleased to send out invitations.

These videos have not been exhibited publicly so I’d appreciate you keeping my confidence.

Best Regards,

10

BBRC WORLDWIDE

Culture

In

Action

11

BBRC WORLDWIDE

Partner’s Pitching In!

Due to severe team shortage, Lynette (Accent’s CEO Daniel Hot 8 Yoga in Los Angeles is also in the same dilemma.

Agostinelli’s wife) answered the call to help and worked in a Nude

Vince Nicoletta, the CEO of Hot 8 Yoga in Los Angeles

Lucy store.

sent me this photo. His wife, Linda has also been called

The last time Lynette was working in a retail store was 20 years ago!!

This is truly culture in action!! to serve in the frontline! Thank you, Linda!

Thank you Lynnie - you’ve still got it!

12

BBRC WORLDWIDE

Actions Lead the Way

Children learn more from our actions than our words; therefore, we must

be mindful of what our children see us do even more than what we tell

them to do.

The same applies to an organization.

The responsibility of our leaders is to ‘walk the talk’, ‘paint the picture’ and

‘tell the story’ of what is truly important.

13

BBRC WORLDWIDE

Increasing our Prices

Brett

Inflation Handout

We are approaching an inflection point of inflation. The “Inflation” word is something many of us have not experienced, it’s been decades since we

had to manage it. Although looking at the history books, inflation is definitely not a new concept, it happens from time to time, and we must be

prepared to lead through it.

We are seeing costs increase across the board; logistics, raw materials, manufacturing, team labourcost. Costs are inching up, and we must work

hard to protect our margins. Although we might believe we can dodge it, or believe “it won’t affect me”, this is a headwind that will affect

everyone across the board. Inflation is coming and will continue to come. Instead of working to try and avoid it, we must lean into it.

We must accept that the world is changing and make adjustments. One example can be seen on labour. As the workforce returns globally, they

dynamics of labourhave shifted. Team members are a bit more confident in their desire to ask for specific working conditions and this includes

higher wages. In the US specifically, this has been supportive by legislative efforts to raise the minimum wage.

As leaders we must set the pace and control the outcome vs. being at the whims of events outside our control. There are many tools we have

available to help control inflation.

- Reduced Cost & Improved Efficiency

o We should continually seek opportunities to eliminate overheads and unneeded work.

o Finding more productive places to work. The global nature of today, allows places like the Philippines, South Africa, India, Malaysia to

compete at a superior level at a faction of the cost. These places have educated workforces, English speaking, and can easily be plugged in

to help reduce manpower from more expensive regions.

- Raising Prices

o We can not be afraid or timid when looking to pass along the increased costs to our customers. We need to continue to deliver quality

products although recognize the operating environment we are in. We will all need to pay more attention to our costings (factory pricing)

and to our on going lines and increasing the retail price ,

It is our job to continuously improve. While inflation might be directly out of our control, we are responsible for our actions to manage through

it. Inflation will come and it will go, although we need to take the steps so we can not only survive but thrive during this new operating climate.

15

BBRC WORLDWIDE

Increasing our prices

• Cost pressures, wage increases

• sales and prices must compensate

• Can not be too far ahead, can not be behind

• Costs generally increase faster than the ability to push through price

increases to customers

• We often underestimate the pricing power of our products in our want to

be competitive, cheap, etc

• Share Hot 8 Yoga Price Rise - up 17%

• We are going to have to learn how to manage businesses in an

inflationary environment

16

BBRC WORLDWIDE

What it means

• Share experience when prices went up every 6 months, match-fit at

changing prices overnight

• Restickering, re-pricing, etc

• Lovisa journey so far…

17

BBRC WORLDWIDE

The Magic Nine

Greg Milne (aka “The Chief”)

Benchmarking

Business Performance

“Using analytical performance monitors to compare inter-business

results and rank accordingly to motivate management”

“…keeping the leaders focused because it is a performance

competitive ranking”

Brett Blundy

“The Magic 9 + Online”

Greg Milne

19