SOURCE: HFT - Feb 2019.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Operational Efficiency and Technology Adoption
SUMMARY: This text discusses strategies to improve order economics, leverage technology and data to drive operational efficiency, and optimize digital marketing channels.
KEYWORDS: order economics, process optimization, technology adoption, data analysis, digital marketing
---

[Document: HFT - Feb 2019.pdf]

services and then ensure you work to meeting those

₋ Measure speed of dispatch or delivery and drive it down whilst

managing your order economics

Order Economics

₋ Understand the profitability of an online order including your

marketing costs to truly ensure you are creating a profitable channel

₋ Like all costs ensure you are constantly reviewing how to do the

process more efficiently

₋ Key Learnings – there are step changes in online pick and pack costs

where volumes drive your cost per order up – at those times review

the way you are processing the orders and identify how to improve

the process

Key Learnings

Technology & Innovation

₋ Worth spending time travelling with team to conferences / events to

understand what is going on in the space – identify your favourite

sites and shop them regularly to see what changes they are making

₋ Don’t necessarily need to be bleeding edge on new technology. Be a

fast follower

₋ Marketing and Technology need to have strong partnership

₋ Continue to invest – opportunity is unlimited if you invest wisely

Data

₋ Measure everything – identify what are your key drivers and remain

focussed on them. Easy to get data on your competitors in this space

3. Where to from here

FY20

Platform upgrade

Website speed optimisation

Mobile-first UX upgrade FY21

FY22

AI product recommendations in email Express delivery options

1.7 x

Gift registry

Linen Lover retention/reaction email

Endless aisles inventory

program Corporate eCommerce

Email & website personalisation

Linen Lover member “hub”

Click & Collect

New market trials

Online merchandising automation tool

Electronic receipts for email

acquisition

Marketplaces

QUESTIONS?

1.7 x

SEO Ongoing Content Optimisation & Technical Changes

₋ Consistently accounts for 1/3 of all traffic to the site

₋ Technical changes made to ensure website code was aligned to “best practice” for search engine

optimisation (e.g. ensuring product reviews and in-stock position are readable by Google)

₋ Increased content on category pages and landing pages

₋ Monthly review on keyword opportunities for product catalogue, promotions (e.g. Black Friday) and

events (e.g. Christmas). Keywords changes consistently made throughout the year

Organic Social Followers

400k 192k

followers followers

₋ Instagram presence has benefited from: ₋ Facebook has historically received lower level of focus

₋ Ability to create high-quality images in-house ₋ Increased focus in Q4 FY19 has delivered positive

specifically for the medium results (+12% increase in Fan base in 3 months)

₋ Influencer program cross-promoting brand page ₋ Positive results seen from trialling video content in Jan

₋ Early adoption from new features (e.g. Insta Shopping

links, Insta TV, Stories)

Influencer Program

₋ Paid influencer program developed in FY18. Currently working with approx. 10 influencers in Australia

₋ Influencers selected based on brand alignment, size of follower base, quality of follower base, and social

engagement

₋ Program serves a dual-purpose: brand positioning/awareness and supports development of inspirational content

for use in our owned channels (website, email, social)

₋ Adairs controls content creation (including timing of posts to align with trading calendar, and directing product

inclusions/themes/trends), however works closely with individual influencers to maximise their skillsets

₋ Key performance measurement is based on Impressions/Engagement given it’s broader role as a brand awareness

tool (versus last click acquisition)

Paid Social Advertising Google Ads Optimisation

Targeting three key audiences on Instagram and Facebook Prior to FY19

₋ Online browsers, no purchase (re-targeting campaign) Majority of digital ad spend invested into Google ads, and

₋ Prospecting audience, targeting followers/fans of competitor fan pages & interest 60% of Google ad spend was invested in brand terms

based fans (e.g. Has demonstrated interest in “homewares”)

₋ Existing customers (Instore & Online Linen Lover loyalty members, Online non-

loyalty customers) In FY19

Google ad spend is flat to FY18, however has been re-

Key to the Paid Social Advertising Optimization weighted to non-brand terms to reach new audiences.

Google product listing ads are consistently the strongest

Prior to FY18, whilst paid social advertising was in place, ads were updated

performing ad format (with the exception of “brand” ads)

infrequently and audiences weren’t segmented. Since optimisation of the program

commenced, the return on investment in this channel has increased by 38% (H1

FY19 vs H1 FY18)

₋ Advertising program now closely aligned with promotional calendar. i.e. Ad

messages are updated as frequently as daily during key trading periods

₋ Each audience is mutually exclusive, enabling us to re-allocate funds based on

promotional calendar campaign objectives and return on investment

₋ We have also seen positive benefit in being an early adopter of new ad formats

(e.g. video). Whilst competition is still low, the cost to reach our audiences is often

lower than more commonly used ad types. Therefore we continue to test and trial

new ad formats as they become available

Strong Omni Channel Execution

Disclaimer

Some of the information contained in this presentation contains “forward-looking statements” which may not directly or

exclusively relate to historical facts. These forward-looking statements reflect Adairs Limited current intentions, plans,

expectations, assumptions and beliefs about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which

areoutsidethecontrolof AdairsLimited.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-

looking statements include known and unknown risks. Because actual results could differ materially from Adairs Limited’s current

intentions, plans, expectations, assumptions and beliefs about the future, you are urged to view all forward-looking statements

containedhereinwith caution.

Digital Focus

Brett Blundy

My New Year’s Note

2019 – The Year Strategic Retail Objectives

Ahead… keep it simple

• Digital & physical should become one, no

isolation/divide/conflict

• Click and collect

✓ Increase your

profitability • Click and dispatch from stores

• Customer acquisition

✓ Create & keep customers • Digital expertise & experience

• Multichannel customer experiences

✓ Watch over inventory & • Pure play is dead … we must capitalize on our strengths:

costs

o Size

o Trusted credible brands

o Pedigree in product and customer

51

BBRC WORLDWIDE