SOURCE: HFT_Customer Complaints_Collated Responses.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific\2016.03 HFT - Customer Complaints
TOPIC: Customer Service and Returns Policy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the impact of a more relaxed returns policy on customer satisfaction, loyalty, and workload for the customer service team.
KEYWORDS: returns policy, customer service, customer satisfaction, customer loyalty, workload management
---

control if not handled correctly.

On top of this re; returns policy from our HQ Customer Service Honeys..

From Kirsten

I think that having relaxed a little on the returns policy has helped boost

customer service and allow customers to feel special, understood and

retain them as loyal customers. It's important to stretch beyond policy

sometimes because we do have the ability to help if the situation

warrants it genuinely. Understanding the customer's needs can be quite

simple if we're a little flexible within reason. I treat each case

independently and evaluate the value of the items, the customer, the

situation and if it's an easy fix and at no significant extra cost to HB.

From Bianca

The new returns policy time period (30 days) has definitely helped in

maximising our return customers as the pressure of the original 14 days

has been taken away, first hand I experienced that this was a deterrent

in store, especially for our male customers purchasing for their partners.

In HQ, as Kirsten said we treat each customer as an individual, life

happens and sometimes there are certain situations where leniency is

allowed and we take into account all factors in the situation to make this

decision.

Employing a larger returns period has allowed us to minimise the volume

of returns issues coming into Customer Service as people are given more

than enough time to action their return.

The new policy has lead to a positive change as we (Customer Service)

are able to use the time we perviously took to take to deal with returns

problems and focus it into other areas improving the Honey Birdette

service.