SOURCE: HFT_Culture_Sept 2015.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture\2015.08 HFT - Culture
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses ways to encourage a culture of creativity, consistency, and continuous improvement within a team.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, employee development, continuous improvement, role modeling, accountability
---

Constantly encouraging and challenging the team to think of new ways and creating an

environment where they are not afraid of trying new things. Even if they fail - as long as it

was well thought out and the impact is minimal it grows creativity and encourages

improvement.

2. How can you personally improve on being a role model of the BBRC Culture? What can you

be doing more/less of?

The key is consistency; at the recent Harvard course one of the key messages was that you

can do 100 things right by living the Culture but if you slip up once then everyone

remembers that one thing not the 100 right things. As a result, it is important for me to

always live the 10+1 Cultural Commitments consistently.

More of:

 Visit DC on a regular basis given we are not on the same site and focusing on standards

as well as operations.

 Challenging more: sometimes you have a lot on so you don’t tend to drill down deeper in

specific areas to challenge the business. Get them to think more and not accept

mediocrity.

 Step back and constantly set priorities to focus on the most important issues ie take time

out to think.

 Take more of an interest in team members other than my direct reports and make them

feel what they are doing is the most important job.

 Consideration of Store Team feedback – these are our front line team and much of their

opinion is based on experience with Customers.

Less of:

 Staying late in the office.

 When there is an issue, I tend to delve in to solve the problem rather than use

questioning and get team to think for themselves.

 I tend to want to micro manage, I need to empower more.

 Over-running on daily schedule; I tend to cram as many things in a day as possible.

3. Please share 2 positive examples and 1 negative example (pictures if appropriate are also

fine) that you have seen in the last month of people in your team demonstrating or not

the BBRC Way and living the 10 PLUS 1 Culture Commitments

Positive

1. We moved the DC within 3 weeks of signing a lease and moved the support centre within

4 weeks including a full fit out. While we were not without issues the team did a great job

in ensuring the move had minimal impact on retail support and driving sales. It was great

to see different departments helping each other out and working as a team to meet our

deadlines and set up all areas of the DC and office.

2. We wanted to change the product hierarchy structure within our RMS system and RD

wanted $30K to make the changes and update the system and reports. We chose not to

pay that so our IT Manager and Head of Planning put a project team together and

investigated how this can be done; set up an action plan, tried it in a test environment

then we did it ourselves in house at $0.00.

Negative

1. With our recent Sale AAR some of the departments missed the deadline and had to be

chased to ensure we got all AARS in for consolidation, review and the AAR meeting. It is

disappointing that we still don’t have the “Do It Now” attitude ALL the time.

ELOISE MONAGHAN (Honey Birdette)

It is no secret that I have long struggled with the notion of having to articulate the HB culture in

a mission statement. This doesn’t mean that I don’t understand the importance of culture at all

levels and the relevance it has to everyone in every role. We don’t do business as usual and that

is why we are successful.

Our culture is not written on the walls, it is in the way we walk, the way we talk through

perfectly painted pouts. I strongly believe you can’t write it, centralise it or document it.

Honey Birdette follows the 10 Plus 1 Culture Commitments in it’s own way. Our brand is built on

personalised service, that Honey attitude and those red lips and all they signify. A vision that

has been near and dear to me since the beginning.

It is simply a feeling you get when you walk into a boutique or Honey HQ. If the passion is there

then accountability, desire to reduce costs, team work and integrity come as naturally as

slipping on a pair of stilettos in the morning.

Regardless of whether you call it ‘Do it NOW’ or how we like to say it in HQ ‘Get shit done’ the

most important values are ingrained within every member of the Honey Birdette team. This is

done by ensuring that have the right attitude upon hiring. They either have to be a Honey or

have the potential to be a Honey. Does she have the right attitude? Can we make a Honey out

of you?

The result is the feeling the customer experiences every time she walks into our boutiques.

She’s not alone exploring the unknown, instead she is stepping into the most glamorous,

undeniably sensual version of her own reality.

1. How are you planning on building innovation into your culture at the senior levels of your

organisation?

Take it from the brand that got toys into Westfield. We serve up the most controversial,

innovative ideas on a silver platter every day. If we believed that anything was impossible

then we wouldn’t be here today.

Since seeing the success of fetish wear and boundary pushing campaigns, everyone feels

that their ideas are possible. And of course our most exciting new project, Glow! Designed in

house by our resident toy expert, Florian, this Kegel fitness toy with a revolutionary smart

app is unlike anything currently available in the Australian market.

2. How can you personally improve on being a role model of the BBRC Culture? What can you

be doing more/less of?