SOURCE: HFT_Customer Complaints_Collated Responses.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific\2016.03 HFT - Customer Complaints
TOPIC: Customer Complaints Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for handling customer complaints, such as updating packaging, providing staff training, and monitoring social media to address negative feedback.
KEYWORDS: customer complaints, social media management, employee training, product quality, brand reputation
---

parts which in our opinion could reduce the incidence of faulty workings

through misuse by the customer.

The video will be up on the Den in March and we will ensure all stores

have viewed prior to the peak Mother’s Day period.

HIGH FOCUS TOPIC CALL : CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS

Collated Responses from Participants

3 Julie Hastings Magician complaints (tearing of skin) led to: immediate update to I was in store and our customer mentioned that her daughter refused to Social media can take to a negative story and spread very quickly, while

Bras N Things packaging including stock on shop floor, education through STAR, BOW, come into the store any more. The conversation continued and she it can be forgotten just as quickly too (the next post take the attention),

Conf Calls etc. to get all team on the same page, Supplier investigation of finally opened up, stating that she had remarks made in the fitting room however if there is passion there, the emotions can fuel it out of control.

materials and glue used to ensure that nothing had caused the issue, and that made her daughter feel terrible about herself. Long story short; we All social media is monitored, managed and responded to if required.

lead to new innovation being trial and tested currently to avoid further had a chance to win the mother over, I spoke with the daughter outside More often than not we respond, however where we see the comment is

repeat of injury. as she refused to come in. She was not interested in coming in to give us baiting for a battle we have found that it passes over.

another go. I thanked her for her willingness to share.

This story became the front page of the STAR (Weekly Memo), was

spoken about on Conference call with State Managers, was what sparked

the need for the Advanced Training Course – Specialist in Engagement &

Fitting Room. This is being rolled out in a couple months through the

entire business. It is the expert training, takes the team to the next level,

the emotional intelligence of empowering women!

4 Vanessa Tindall Each complaint makes you stronger and leaves a lesson to be learnt if we 1. Due to comments made by team on social media we have tightened Social media has such a large network that one bad comment can either

Honey Birdette are not open to feedback we will never grow. up our social media policy and have since included a claus in our fizzle as fast as it was put up or escalate very quickly.

Compliments are nice however only reaffirm what you already know. contracts to protect the brand. Currently pending sign off on our policy Depending on the severity of the comment depends on the action taken.

for the Hive.

The best insight I can give to handling customer feedback better is: 2. When receiving feedback regarding underage customers an 18+ policy If the comment is regarding online sizing, faults or boutique issues, our

1. Listen to what the customer is telling you. (Really listen) was re-introduced, has been uploaded on the hive and reinforced customer service team always urge the customer to contact our

2. Sympathize with the customer and adjust your approach to each through the HP and by AM's. customer service hotline directly or via our customer service email to

individual. 3. Feedback regarding customer service and team being too pushy with avoid any further negativity on our social media pages.

3. Investigate, get all the facts. sales have been addressed broadly through Boot camps and in Store

4. Remain calm and keep your composure at all times. training. This is to ensure the company values are not lost due to It's always important to remember that anything on social media is

5. Try to come to a resolution. budgets. public record and nothing is private. Even snap chat can be screen shot

and used against you at anytime.

Taking all of this in to consideration means that the way we respond

must always be handled delicately as it can be critical to HB's future

growth and development. Advice on all copy is to be run by Paige so we

can ensure we move swiftly and rectify the situation so it doesn’t

escalate further.

HIGH FOCUS TOPIC CALL : CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS

Collated Responses from Participants

5 Eloise Monaghan The returns policy! At first it was hard to shake that small business Bianca is our customer Relations Honey on the front line of all customer When you’re pushing boundaries as a brand it’s impossible not to

Honey Birdette mentality of holding onto every dollar, despite BBRC telling us to be feedback, she is brilliant at not only resolving the customer’s issue but receive negative backlash on social media. For individual complaints we

more flexible (winking). In the long term it has benefited us to listen to responding with the correct tone. It’s important that I also have visibility ask the customer for their details so that we can contact them directly to

our customer and change the returns and exchange policy to satisfy their around every customer complaint, I then decide if and how we take this resolve the issue offline. As everyone is so consumed with social media,

needs. further with the retail team. If It is a serious complaint I will question the sometimes we need to deflect the negative view points i.e. Xmas signage

the Honey, the store, the Area Manager involved and ask the question, and draw their attention back to what really matters…Vibrators! We

what can we do as a team to prevent this from reoccurring in the future? handle every digital complaint seriously as it can quickly spiral out of

control if not handled correctly.

On top of this re; returns policy from our HQ Customer Service Honeys..

From Kirsten

I think that having relaxed a little on the returns policy has helped boost