SOURCE: HFT_Culture_Sept 2015.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture\2015.08 HFT - Culture
TOPIC: Corporate Culture
SUMMARY: The text discusses the company's efforts to improve its corporate culture, including using videos and a 'Little Black Book' to communicate values and behaviors.
KEYWORDS: corporate culture, employee engagement, brand values, continuous improvement
---

house by our resident toy expert, Florian, this Kegel fitness toy with a revolutionary smart

app is unlike anything currently available in the Australian market.

2. How can you personally improve on being a role model of the BBRC Culture? What can you

be doing more/less of?

At the end of the Apple video an employee says “What Apple gives the employee is the

opportunity to be part of something really meaningful” My aim is to really drive this message

home again. We’re doing something really empowering for women and this is worth

celebrating every day.

Also by communicating Honey Birdette’s culture in video format, a process briefly described

on page 34 of the Wal-Mart Way ‘The broadcasts – spontaneous, humourous, and informal

– are a fun way to let all associates in on the attitude and culture of the company.’ In the

future we are looking at doing more work with a professional videographer. I believe it is the

most effective way to communicate our values to the team.

3. Share two positive examples and one negative example that you have seen in the last

month of people in your team demonstrating or not the BBRC way and living up to the 10

Plus 1 Culture Commitments.

Every week we do a Who’s Who from a member of the team. Reading Vinu, our Warehouse

Manager’s Who’s Who (see attached) last week was a career highlight for me. It just shows

that everyone in our little HQ is here to serve the customer and in the Honey way. From HQ

level our Honeys are our customer. And the fans that walk through the doors each day are

their customer.

Whoswho_VINU.pd

f

Gabrielle Blair, our Melbourne Central Manager is a prime example of team members

striving for continuous improvement at all levels. Just last month she begged us to up her

budgets, going as far as creating her own budgets far beyond what was expected of her.

There is also a thread on our World Manager platform that the Honeys have created to

discuss their targets and reaching goals above the mark.

Accountability needs to be improved. I can’t be there to make every decision and neither

can our NRM.

To ensure we don’t lose sight of the visions and values that have been so important to the

brand since the pair first of knickers were sold in our first West End store, we are working

hard on producing The Little Black Book.

The Little Black Book will be the holy grail of Honey. A reference for the history and culture

of the brand and a guide for future leaders of Honey Birdette.

Honeypot_WK76[3].

pdf