SOURCE: HFT_Culture_Sept 2015.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture\2015.08 HFT - Culture
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Innovation
SUMMARY: The document discusses various employee engagement and innovation initiatives, including a weekly 'winning idea' competition and a 'Product Innovation Challenge'.
KEYWORDS: employee engagement, innovation, idea competition, product innovation, culture
---

winning idea is published in the weekly store memo and winner given a $50 gift voucher.

This has been going for a year and has been generating some great ideas and initiatives.

We have also continued the “Product Innovation Challenge” that was started with BBRC

and now opened up to Lovisa as an organisation and offering a trip to the Maldives for the

best product idea generated. And lastly as leaders there is ongoing setting ambitious goals

and challenging the status quo in our one on ones and meetings – why we’re doing things

this way or why can’t we do it that way

2. How can you personally improve on being a role model of the BBRC Culture? What can

you be doing more/less of?

I think at times these can become another sign on the wall and at times we have been

guilty of running a conf and not building these into the sessions, I think we can do a

greater job at continually driving these. Also there was a time where team would be hired

and or promoted of their ability to deliver on these measures but theis seems to have

dropped off as well. I think by talking to these especially in promotions it will help

reinforce the importance of these.

3. Please share 2 positive examples and 1 negative example (pictures if appropriate are

also fine) that you have seen in the last month of people in your team demonstrating or

not the BBRC Way and living the 10 PLUS 1 Culture Commitments.

Positives

1. Costs are the enemy – We continually find ways to reduce our expenses, cut our

shrinkage and improve productivity.

Last month our operations team celebrated their impressive results from an in house

initiative to reduce our costs. By simply asking the question the operations team saved the

business a total of $717,757 since Xmas. This is a huge achievement and all team were

largely involved in reducing our expenses and did an excellent job of measuring their

savings.

2. Customer satisfaction and PERFECT service It’s about her always! We know that she’s

the real boss. We exist to satisfy the customer and do everything in our power to add

value to her experience.

We received a number of compliments every week from our customers. Here is an

example of one we received in July;

I thought I’d just shoot you guys an email to say how humbled I was tonight by the actions

of the Manager in your Brisbane CBD Myer Centre store. I’m not even sure if this is the

right way to give this kind of feedback, but I had to share. Tonight I l dropped my wallet in

Lovisa and didn’t realise until I got to another store until I went to pay for something. I was

so stressed, but eventually traced my steps back to Lovisa. I didn’t expect that they would

have it or I would find it again, but when I walked in the store all flushed I was greeted by

the lovely Anna. I said that I lost my wallet and was so relieved when she told me she had

it. Not only did she have it but she had gone to the effort to track me down on Facebook

and send me a message letting me know she had it.

Everything was still in my wallet including all my cash. I just thought I’d write and say what

kind, honest and caring staff you have. This incident aside, they are always so friendly and

professional in this store, and Anna’s actions just made my day. Thank you so much Anna

and the CBD team!

Kind regards,

Beth

Negatives

1. One of the poor cultural behaviours which has come up of recent times, is if a team

member has just ‘done the wrong thing’ and potentially spoken to or questioned about it,

that then their line manager in some cases has the tendency to then come and ‘jump to

the defence’ of their team, creating a divide amongst management. This can be very

damaging very quickly and no one wins in these situations. I think this can come down to

some people choose to manage in a ‘us against the world’ mentality where managers can

wrongfully manage by coming across as ‘I’ll protect you from them’ (being support centre

etc). it may make someone look good for ten minutes but this is very dangerous in an

organisation.

GEORGE WAHBY (Bras N Things)

1. How are you planning on building innovation into your culture at the senior levels of your

organisation?

We have established an IT Steering Committee with the leadership team to identify and

prioritise key projects. The interesting part is, while IT is the main reason for the meeting we

are challenging business processes as a team before scoping what we want from the system.

This is allowing us to challenge the way we do things and not only look at technology

enablers to improve our efficiency and costs, but if we are approaching the way we do

business the right way. For example, we want to close DFO stores and sell our clearance

lines through our store network and our online outlet store so we are challenging ourselves

on how to implement Click and Collect so we don’t have to send stock back to the DC and

sell out of our stores. The technology part of Click and Collect is the easy part but how we

manage the operational aspect and stock accuracy is where we need to be innovative and

challenge ourselves.

Engage the team in BBRC academies and ensure follow through.

Constantly encouraging and challenging the team to think of new ways and creating an

environment where they are not afraid of trying new things. Even if they fail - as long as it

was well thought out and the impact is minimal it grows creativity and encourages

improvement.