SOURCE: HFT_Culture_Sept 2015.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Culture\2015.08 HFT - Culture
TOPIC: Innovation and Culture Building
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for building innovation into the organization's culture, including assigning innovation targets, leveraging external ideas, and role modeling desired behaviors.
KEYWORDS: innovation, culture building, organizational change
---

PETER KING (Dusk)

1. How are you planning on building innovation into your culture at the senior levels of

your organisation?

Despite going through significant change at dusk, I will task each of my DR’s to have at

least one “Innovation Bullseye” to hit in F16.

They may not have to think of it themselves. It could come from an outside source , it

could come from me or from general discussion about cost reductions, revenue growth or

systems improvement. The idea could be shared if it is cross functional. It will limited to

one each to ensure we can have successes and build from there.

Early examples are-

 Hand held terminals for out top stores for Xmas- These “Queue Busters” have come

from Greg’s tech academy. Work with CBA & Futura is progressing and will touch upon

retail Ops for training, IT for integration at store level and back end as well as Finance

to ensure nternal controls for sales reporting.

 VOIP for our stores. This is a long run cost saver vs current set ups and has unlocked

access to a capital account at Telstra to upgrade our aging hardware at zero cost to

dusk.

The bullseye has to be either a cost saver now or in the life of the change, a time/process

saver or revenue driver. Simply replacing a legacy process with a new partner or way of

doing business won’t cut it.

2. How can you personally improve on being a role model of the BBRC Culture? What can

you be doing more/less of?

With new team members coming on board in Q2 & Q3 of F16, the single biggest action I

can take is to explain the 10+1 to all joining our team. Work with HR to ensure this piece is

covered in every induction and is part of the welcome pack.

Once done to the point where I am satisfied all have “got it” move to the second phase

where the team feel comfortable to call each other or at least question each other on any

variance from these agreed ways of leading. Equally importantly, I will be encouraging

team members to “catch people doing something right.” To make this work, I have to be

open for feedback and be setting an example of providing feedback. I need to go first to

give permission for the others to do the same.

More of – Accessible. Consistent. Open. Speaking & acting with clarity. Asking for

feedback. Challenging the team to constantly improve on what they did prior or what they

have handed to them as ways of doing business previously (see above point 1)

Less of – In the office. Communicating through emails vs walking/talking/visiting in stores.

3. Please share 2 positive examples and 1 negative example (pictures if appropriate are

also fine) that you have seen in the last month of people in your team demonstrating or

not the BBRC Way and living the 10 PLUS 1 Culture Commitments

Positives

i) Continuous improvement – at our last meeting of state & area managers, we discuss the

recent poor performance of our bigger stores on the essentials ratio (Our 1;15 ratio of

add on sales of Turbo Lighters & Candle Care Kits). This was made more urgent by the

fact we had recently had to lift price due to eroding margins. The state managers took it

upon themselves to take this as a challenge & competition between states. They then

committed to report back on progress. The challenge then became not just hitting the

target but then on holding each store to that target into the future and comparing

results by State.

ii) Teamwork – on Monday Aug 3rd at 13.00 in a joint Factory & Customer support centre

meeting, I informed the team of the planned closure of our Kewdale manufacturing

facility by EOM November & subsequent relocation of the CSC from Perth to Sydney by

EOM December. This announcement would obviously result in the loss of jobs for the

majority of those present. The meeting, with questions and comments took 40 minutes.

Needless to say, those assembled were upset. Our market review meeting takes place

every Monday at 14.00. I delieberately went to the rom at 14.00 for the start of the

meeting without walking around to ensure all were turning up. To me, this was the first

litmus test of how the next few days & weeks would unfold. By 14.20, the full team of

planners, buyers & e-commerce were assembled around the table. Sheets were printed

off and distributed and the meeting proceeded and concluded with specific action

points, just as it did every other Monday. This was all about teamwork and the need to

support each other & get the job done for the business & for each other. It should also

be noted all subsequent scheduled meetings have started on time and functioned as per

normal. To me, that is when you see a culture being tested, in times of great adversity,

people do the right thing and execute what is expected of them.

Negative

1. This might seem a cop out, but I have to say I have not witnessed an example of people

not demonstrating the correct behaviours and attitudes in the last month. I will try to

identify an example prior to the call on Tuesday.

SHANE FALLSCHEER (Lovisa)

1. How are you planning on building innovation into your culture at the senior levels of

your organisation?

Trying to build into culture at multiple levels. From the ground up we have a “Tell Shane”

initiative where team in stores are encouraged to contribute any ideas to Shane and

winning idea is published in the weekly store memo and winner given a $50 gift voucher.

This has been going for a year and has been generating some great ideas and initiatives.

We have also continued the “Product Innovation Challenge” that was started with BBRC