SOURCE: HFT_Customer Complaints_Collated Responses.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific\2016.03 HFT - Customer Complaints
TOPIC: Customer Complaints Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses how companies handle customer complaints, including through product care initiatives, social media responses, and addressing quality issues.
KEYWORDS: customer complaints, product care, social media management, quality control
---

HIGH FOCUS TOPIC CALL : CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS

Collated Responses from Participants

Please share the best insight you’ve had from customer feedback that Share the last customer concern feedback you directly received? What What happens when the brand gets negative comments on social

led to real improvement. was it, and what were your actions and outcomes? media? How do you handle it?

1 Steve Doyle We recently had a number of complaints about our product tarnishing - I received a complaint on Wednesday 9.3.16. It was around customer Our two main social media channels are Instagram and Facebook. We

Lovisa when we took this to the Buying team we discovered that the product service or lack thereof at our Robina store. The complaint was that the don’t tend to get complaints on Instagram, it is more commentary on the

care education was not strong enough in stores as some team members two team members were both talking to a customer who appeared to be product or model. Facebook feedback comes through as a private

were simply not aware of how to care for costume jewellery. Therefore their friend. The customer that complained was offered the add on but message so it is handled the same way as an email. Our marketing team

we have developed a Product Care Card that will be given to every not offered service other than that. She didn’t provide a phone number review these messages twice daily and have alerts sent to their phone

customer with each purchase and is small enough to fit in her purse. This so I have emailed her, apologised for her experience, assured her that when someone comments on a post.

initiative will make a positive impact to our customers experience and we will speak to the two team members and revisit our customer service

also develops our Retail teams product knowledge. The cards will be in training (Style steps in our language) and will send her a $20 voucher.

all stores in 4 weeks supported with an E learning module on Product She still purchased a product $39.99 even with bad service so I’m sure

Care targeted to all team. we will turn her negative experience into a positive one.

This is the mock-up of what is being developed.

2 Peter King We have had customer complaints & returns for our Mood Mist dusk received several complaints via social media regarding the closure When we removed too many Candle fragrances and received complaints,

Dusk Products. Mood Mist diffusers retail for up to $119.99 and are amongst of our Perth Factory. These complaints ranged from questioning why we we responded with an acknowledgment of the complaint, thank the

the highest unit price items we have at dusk. We are increasing our did so trough to allegations of dusk treating our factory employees customer for taking the time to let us know her thoughts and point out

range after our latest SAR so to have quality issues from our supplier is poorly and ripping off customers. we have added many more new fragrances and candles in our stores.

the last thing we need.

Each of these complaints personally. Depending upon the tone of the When there is an example of damage to property by the use of our

Upon closer inspection of the complaints and with our product team post, I made the point we needed to make this difficult decision, products, we almost always err on the side of caution and offer to have

talking to store managers and reviewing returned units, the problems impacting several dozen employees to protect the jobs of several the damage repaired or item replaced. We of course apologies for the

are not all product faults, but also include incorrect use by our hundred employees in our stores. We couldn’t raise our prices. inconvenience caused and offer to replace the item or a full refund with

customers. While we deeply regretted having to do this and we only made the a voucher for $20.00.

decision after several years of trying to manufacture efficiently in Perth,

We recognized the fact we need to refresh our store teams on how best Ultimately the decision came down to protecting the many vs the few. We then follow up with a call once the product is delivered to ensure the

to explain the use, maintenance and quantity of fragrance/water used In all but one strident case, the negative feedback ceased or we received customer is 100% satisfied.

with our Diffusers. a response thanking us for the answer. Despite my offer to contact me

directly, only one person did so. As per the attached article, we conduct these conversations either

The result? through DM or by phone.

My single biggest learnings were these;

A) We are making a simple video to be placed on The Den for our store 1. Personalize the response. Acknowledge the person making the Learnings here are;

teams which show the easy steps to sell and explain about our Mood complaint and let them know the company takes it seriously by having A) Speed of response, acknowledge error, apologize and offer

Mist diffusers. This video will cover off several of the items listed above the CEO answer. alternatives.

as well as reinforce that the best long term use for our diffusers is to 2. Avoid anything that even reads like spin. Make it sound like a normal B) Offer to make good for the customer and follow up. Ensure Product

always use our dusk fragrance which are developed for this specific use. person speaking to a normal person. team see the complaints and take any learnings.

B) We have sent competitor samples to our supplier which have different 3. Offer to be available for further comment.

parts which in our opinion could reduce the incidence of faulty workings

through misuse by the customer.

The video will be up on the Den in March and we will ensure all stores