SOURCE: High Focus Topic Call_PARS_Collated Responses.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.06 HFT - PARS
TOPIC: Performance Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the implementation of a performance appraisal and review system (PAR) to improve team member performance and succession planning in a small, flat organization.
KEYWORDS: Performance Appraisal, Succession Planning, Team Management, Feedback, Accountability
---

I have instigated with my direct reports (DR’s) in the last quarter. other team members. curve.

We have introduced the newer team members to PAR’s ready for • Diarising into each managers’ month on top of existing schedules.

commencement in July for the new financial year and the roll out to The process is now bearing some positive results. The ability link to • Ensuring I follow up with each DR to check on their schedule.

all team members. our weekly 30 minutes diarised catch ups makes the PAR discussion • Uniformity of measurement so we avoid overly harsh vs overly

easier and more linked to execution and attitude. soft ratings across the organisation.

• We have scheduled a section first weekly Leadership Team

Benefits – meeting of each month to discuss C5 & PAR adherence to hold each

• The link to the earlier HFT of succession planning. We are a small other accountable on conducting and sharing benefits challenges as

flat organisation with limited opportunity for succession planning we embed into the business. This begins July.

when discussing their teams and performance. PAR’s offer a link to

Succession planning by focussing on the team members and their

performance and attitude.

• While stated it is not a performance appraisal, it does feed into

the process as we head to close off one year and plan for the new

with refreshed KPI’s for the coming year.

• The opportunity to offer systemised mentoring to all DR’s

focussing upon skills needed to provide increased performance &

teamwork amongst the team to generate sustainable improved

performance.

6 HONEY BIRDETTE • No HB isn’t implementing the monthly PAR process. Based on experience our team has had with diva…….. • Additional task/ process that will need to be driven before we

Eloise Monaghan • Historically small, our management style means that everyone • PAR’s are an effective management tool. ‘What can be measured start to see results

Chris Gillian works closely together. There hasn’t been a need for a full scale can be improved’. • After review, feedback and development goals for each honey.

Darrien McLeod formalised feedback system. • PAR’s force us to look at the big picture and ensures This all takes time.

Vanessa Tindall • We are in touch with our stores and team. accountability by reviewing and assessing individuals • All of these tasks need to be applied on the job whilst serving

Belinda Sharpin • HB is highly results driven and has the following policies/reviews performance/potential customers.

Bronwyn Bateman in place. Daily Sales results, Red Zone management and weekly • Gives team clear goals of what is expected and how to achieve it • L&D priorities, we’ve just rolled out the Little Black Book and are

Dashboard. • Are our HiPo’s being challenged/nurtured. Are Performance still developing New Hire Induction & training via the Hive. Training

• Communication is key. Through daily calls, we connect with how Management opportunities being driven? to be implemented to give team the tools to succeed before formal

our team are performing and provide PIP’s through on the job • Attitude over aptitude – skills can be taught. More time spent review.

training. We reward our team through generous incentives, keeping training and developing team with potential.

team excited and engaged, HiPo’s are rewarded through internal • Ensures that we develop and retain the right team, this will lift the

promotion, our open door policy keeps us in touch with our team. standard of the business, culture and the results will follow.

• These program’s result in ensuring we have the right people in the • We value team that drive results that flow through the business

right role. and build the reputation/ culture of our brand. That’s what gives us

the competitive edge.

HIGH FOCUS TOPIC : PEOPLE ASSET REVIEWS (PARS) CHAIRPERSON: BRETT BLUNDY PAGE 3/3

THU 16 JUNE 2016 | 2 PM SGT | 4 PM AEST

NO PARTICIPANTS QUESTION 1 QUESTION 2 QUESTION 3

Are PARs being completed in your business? If yes, how deeply / If PARs are being completed or you have seen them completed in If PARs are not being completed, what do you foresee as the

frequently? If not, why? the past, please comment on the value of them. challenge to tying to implement them across your business?

7 LOVISA The PAR's process has been used now for a few years at Lovisa and In all my previous roles before I joined Lovisa across the

Armando Pedruco has helped the business grow and develop talent that has taken this Woolworths group performance reviews were only done annually

brand globally. which I always thought was a long time between reviewing team

members performance. The annual review was also not necessarily

After a recent deep dive and review we determined that there has fair to team members because it's hard to remember 12 months

been inconsistencies in the process across the globe. This worth of performance for the line managers, so the majority of the

realisation was a major focus of our most recent conference in May feedback was the last few months results.

with our Operations leadership team and a decision was made to

relaunch the process in the business. I believe the benefit of reviewing team members performance

monthly is as follows

This was then rolled out to all our Regional Managers during State

and Country conferences to make sure the process is being * It drives a performance culture that does not let complacency set

followed monthly for all team members from Assistant Manager up in.

to myself as the Global GM Sales. My responsibility moving forward * it helps a business understand where the top talent sits and helps

is to make sure we now Imbed the process in the business globally. with a strong succession plan.

* it drives accountability for management to review the

performance of our most important asset in the business.