SOURCE: High Focus Topic_notes July AAR.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.06 HFT - AAR
TOPIC: Business Performance Review
SUMMARY: The document discusses the effectiveness of After-Action Reviews (AARs) in improving business performance, with a focus on lessons learned and the value of pre-event Business-Action Reviews (BARs).
KEYWORDS: After-Action Review, Business-Action Review, Continuous Improvement, Organizational Learning, Performance Management
---

High Focus Topic – After Action Reviews – Responses from CEOs

Attendees

Shane (Lovisa)

Eloise (HB)

George (BnT)

Pete King (Dusk)

Darren (BBRC Property)

Gary (BBRC Property)

Stephen (BBRC)

Kate Parkinson (BBRC Property)

SHANE (Lovisa)

1.       Explain the most effective AAR you were a part of. What happened and why?

The Xmas AAR every year is by far the most effective and shows the biggest upside. Everyone from regional manager and up completes one as well as probably 80% of the support centre.

These are then put through a series of workshops and discussions to form detailed action plans. This AAR takes place in January and by March detailed action plans are in place.

2.       Think of a time when things to change were identified in an AAR, but the mistakes ended up being repeated. How did this happen?

This happens when individuals think they know better than the detailed notes taken anything up to a year earlier, i.e. when the AAR notes come out and individuals either think they know better OR they take a detailed say 5 page AAR on a topic and summarize it down to 8 action points, missing the key learning’s that have been documented.

Other times this happens every second year, i.e. the learning’s are captured and dealt with the following time/year BUT then the things that may have been corrected in prior AAR’s and start to get taken for granted come back to haunt you as the ‘things that were good’ are less likely to get recorded and acted on.

3.       The HBR article talks about BARs and AARs – do you think there’s value in the BAR?

There is definitely value in a BAR. Particularly for big actions / events like Christmas. A BAR is like setting an agenda for a meeting. Will help stay focused on results you need and prevent the “every second year” mistakes scenario described above. We currently already perform a version of a BAR for Christmas planning. Last week in setting the Christmas action plan in place Shane reviewed last 3 years Christmas AARs to identify challenges and success we anticipate based on what has gone on in the past. This way we going into the event we have objectives and an action plan that is strengthened year on year by things we have done well and things we have screwed up. Even if it was a one-off event would still worthwhile performing a BAR to stay focused and by reviewing AAR’s from comparable events – be mindful of possible pitfalls.

ELOISE (Honey Birdette)

1.      Explain the most effective AAR you were a part of. What happened and why?

This past June SALE period has produced one of the most informative and actionable AAR’s to date. The great thing was I was in the Philipines and the team AAR’d the hell out of it. Loved it, owned it, timelined it. Top 2 key learnings? 1. Don’t stocktake your warehouse during sale. 2. Don’t stocktake your warehouse during sale.

2.      Think of a time when things to change were identified in an AAR, but the mistakes ended up being repeated. How did this happen?

We don’t repeat mistakes. If you make the same mistake at Honey Birdette twice you die.

3.      The HBR article talks about BARs and AARs – do you think there’s value in the BAR?

Absolutely.

GEORGE (Bras N Things)

Explain the most effective AAR you were a part of. What happened and why?

I still believe we have a long way to improve in our AAR’s but the one that was most effective is Mothers Day 2014. I felt that we really focused on the main key issues that made the biggest difference and took that into consideration in our planning process in preparation for mother’s day 2015, we identified:

3 bundles for customers were too complicated for our customer to understand and did not provide flexibility.

We had too many short sleeve options and not enough warm long sleeve options.

We identified that we needed to pick daily the week of mothers day rather than 1 major pick.

The buying team implemented all these findings.

We simplified our offer to our customer

We ended up changing our procedure to do daily picks leading up to mothers day.

This resulted in a 7% comp growth.

Think of a time when things to change were identified in an AAR, but the mistakes ended up being repeated. How did this happen?

This mother’s day 2015 was a good example. We should not just go back to the last mother’s day AAR to review learning’s but we should also learn from what we could have done better from the Christmas AAR to improve our processes for mother’s day.

We identified in Christmas that we needed to review the forecasted uplifts for the key drivers and set models for best selling items by store rather than a general uplift in sale of a category across all stores and review daily to ensure we have sufficient stock in stores prior to the big sales periods. Even though we spoke about it at the planning session and we ensured top stores had the majority of stock it was still done initially by category even though we were told that it was planned by key drivers. We assumed that it was done correctly (mistake: never assume regardless how senior the team member is). However, when doing store visits and reviewing recaps report daily we noticed gowns and flannelette PJ’s were low on stock and when we went digging we found that allocations were actually done by category by store rather than best selling styles by store resulting in not enough best sellers in our best performing stores. We did react to minimise impact but it caused major disruption that could have been avoided and resulted in lost sales.