SOURCE: High Focus Topic_notes July AAR.docx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.06 HFT - AAR
TOPIC: After Action Review (AAR) Process
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of conducting effective After Action Reviews (AARs) to identify and address issues from previous events, rather than relying solely on past AARs.
KEYWORDS: After Action Review, Continuous Improvement, Lessons Learned, Performance Evaluation, Event Planning
---

The key take out from answering this question is that I realised that we mainly review the previous AAR for the same event when we should be looking at resent AAR’s conducted in order not to repeat resent makes made as a lot could have changed from an AAR prepared 12 months ago. Also never assume that if it was communicated that it actually happened.

The HBR article talks about BARs and AARs – do you think there’s value in the BAR?

In affect we do a form of BAR before each major reoccurring event as we review the past AAR in the planning process for the upcoming event, so to formalise it makes sense and we should do it for all events rather than major ones. We just need to be careful that it is not seen as another procedure we are implementing and adding more meetings, it needs to form part of the planning process in a formalised manner so it becomes seamless. Maybe we should included it as an action item from the AAR. Looking forward to hearing other opinions.

PETE (Dusk)

Explain the most effective AAR you were a part of. What happened and why?

I have only been involved in two AAR’s in my nine Months at Dusk. Xmas & Mothers Day. I will focus upon the Xmas event. We flew in all state & Area managers. My DR’s were present and the combined feedback was >100 pages, broken up into executional categories. Much time was spent on reinforcing & reminding the participants of the rules and procedures for this to be effective.

What happened?

AAR was held before EOM Jan to capture fresh feedback.

CEO was the facilitator.

All feedback was printed and distributed at the meeting.

Attendees came prepared and willing to listen & contribute.

A wide range of topics were covered and action points taken.

Many shortcomings for Xmas execution were identified.

Tangible improvements were offered up and included in our notes ( recruitment , deliveries)

We ran out of time and had to rush certain segments

There was a genuine acknowledgement amongst the participants that this was a big deal ad we had a lot to do. This against a back drop of record sales for the Xmas activity.

A suggestion for improvement would be to capture those strategies or tactical executions that worked well. The focus needs to be balanced and be sure it captures the positives.

Think of a time when things to change were identified in an AAR, but the mistakes ended up being repeated. How did this happen?

I have not done a full cycle, so it is hard to comment. One thing I have noticed since the AAR is discussion on whether the decisions & changes taken in the heat of the AAR were still relevant and needing to be executed?

This could relate to a lack of time at the end of the process to fully run through the list of major adjustments & improvements agreed up by the group AND, reinforce why we have come to the conclusion to make the changes. This could lead to repetition of errors by the team due to remedies not being executed.

The HBR article talks about BARs and AARs – do you think there’s value in the BAR?

Tough question. We do a Xmas countdown (it’s already started) and in that we capture the events needing to be done, by when by whom. While not exactly a BAR, it is partly the same process. We also compliment this development with the Xmas product sign off meetings where we use the AAR notes to guide SKU investment, product development, planned offers, and coordinated Xmas displays.

I could try it operationally for Xmas 15 and see if it adds to the process. It might be a little late, but we can see if it can work for us.