SOURCE: High Focus Topic Call_PARS_Collated Responses.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.06 HFT - PARS
TOPIC: Performance Management
SUMMARY: Participants discuss the usage and value of People Asset Reviews (PARs) in their businesses, highlighting challenges and benefits.
KEYWORDS: People Asset Reviews, Performance Evaluation, Talent Management, Employee Development, Organizational Growth
---

HIGH FOCUS TOPIC : PEOPLE ASSET REVIEWS (PARS) CHAIRPERSON: BRETT BLUNDY PAGE 1/3

THU 16 JUNE 2016 | 2 PM SGT | 4 PM AEST

PARTICIPANTS' RESPONSES SUMMARY

NO PARTICIPANTS QUESTION 1 QUESTION 2 QUESTION 3

Are PARs being completed in your business? If yes, how deeply / If PARs are being completed or you have seen them completed in If PARs are not being completed, what do you foresee as the

frequently? If not, why? the past, please comment on the value of them. challenge to tying to implement them across your business?

1 AVENTUS No. Lack of knowledge re the process and small team with few Have used similar performance/potential matrix previously, Sticking with the process on a monthly basis. Using the PARs as part

Darren Holland layers and high levels of contact/visibility (daily huddles, monthly although not monthly. Very useful tool for articulating where team of the team member’s development and training on a consistent

Gary Jones team forum, goal reviews etc) between team and CEO/senior members sit in their current role and for their career growth, along basis. Consistency amongst managers in rating performance and

Lawrence Wong leaders. 6 monthly and annual review process in place but can be with identifying future leaders. potential so that cross-department comparisons are useful.

Joanne McDonnell haphazard in implementation. Formalised PARs a good fit for

Aventus with rapidly growing team.

2 BBRC Pars are not being completed. Team is very small. Monthly seems a I see benefit in PAR’s but perhaps on quarterly with agreed

Tony Frzop little over the top as little changes month to month. I used to do outcomes on non performers. Being held to account will bring

pars but little to discuss due to team size. faster change in the greater team, better outcomes.

3 BRAS N THINGS I am embarrassed to say that we were doing PAR's regularly and When we were completing them they were of value and helped us I feel we can implement it without too many challenges but need to

George Wahby with the introduction of South Africa and changes in the leadership to make some good team decisions that resulted in a complete be mindful that we are also embedding Workouts at the same time

Ray Itaoui team it has dropped over the past 6 months which is no excuse. change in key management roles. However I did feel that monthly while we have not got South Africa fully under control and taking a

was too frequent as I felt the effectiveness lost its value when done lot of time not only from Trudy taking on the responsibility in

that frequent. I would prefer quarterly. addition to her People and development role but impeding changes

in the leadership team.

4 BRAS N THINGS PARs are currently not being used within the business and my The power of PAR is evident in the meeting with the manager, and PARs are scheduled in the events calendar to ensure that time is set

Julie Hastings departments. Really, no reason is valid enough, as I know the the robust discussion around behaviour and performance. PARs aside and thought about in advance.... no excuse for planning time

importance of them and have completed in the past. When its left help with keeping track of day to day through the team who are for it. Discussions with world manager continue with the aim to

up to the individual to instigate them being completed and employed to complete them. The scoring and review meetings automate the process to make it easier to complete, manage and

conducting the review meetings, it seems traction just doesn’t align the expectations across the business, and raises the bar on the report on the completion. In the past, the PAR reporting has helped

happen. Our P & D department has been under resource pressure norm. I love that PARs lead to developing the up and comers, and in getting execution until it becomes second nature. In the times

for the best part of 6 months and therefore the bus isn’t being helps to manage up or out the bottom performers. Continuous when we are completing Appraisals and CDP (Career Development

driven hard enough. improvement! Plans) we will not double up on doing reviews, we will also leave

retail managers off the December PAR schedule. The only issue we

do have is with the current system is that two systems are being

used while we encourage world Manager to fix the system.

HIGH FOCUS TOPIC : PEOPLE ASSET REVIEWS (PARS) CHAIRPERSON: BRETT BLUNDY PAGE 2/3

THU 16 JUNE 2016 | 2 PM SGT | 4 PM AEST

NO PARTICIPANTS QUESTION 1 QUESTION 2 QUESTION 3

Are PARs being completed in your business? If yes, how deeply / If PARs are being completed or you have seen them completed in If PARs are not being completed, what do you foresee as the

frequently? If not, why? the past, please comment on the value of them. challenge to tying to implement them across your business?

5 DUSK At dusk we have not been executing PAR’s to the monthly schedule For my team it took time to get the process embedded. The biggest • Training up all managers on how PAR’s work, their benefits,

Peter King throughout the organisation. challenge was for me to evaluate performance and attributes of so correct processes & to follow up. We should be looking for focus on

many new starters across the business and their interaction with correcting poor performers and stretch for others on the vitality

I have instigated with my direct reports (DR’s) in the last quarter. other team members. curve.

We have introduced the newer team members to PAR’s ready for • Diarising into each managers’ month on top of existing schedules.