SOURCE: How to Make Your One-on-Ones with Employees More Productive.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2018
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for making one-on-one meetings with employees more productive, including being curious, giving advance notice for career development discussions, and expressing gratitude.
KEYWORDS: one-on-one meetings, employee development, employee engagement, feedback, gratitude
---

[Document: How to Make Your One-on-Ones with Employees More Productive.pdf]

thoughtful about their careers and lives. “You need to take in your colleague as a whole human

being,” says Moore. “Be curious.” While some managers like to talk about professional

development at every meeting, “others like to do it at every other,” says Saunders. It’s up to you,

but if you plan to touch on career plans, it’s prudent to give your employee a heads up because

those conversations “require reflection and thought,” she says. “Give employees the time and

space to think about what they want to express” before you broach the subject. Once you’re face-

to-face, Saunders recommends asking direct but open-ended questions about your report’s goals.

“This is helpful for keeping people motivated and on track,” she says.

Express gratitude

Close the meeting as you began it — with positivity. Moore recommends, “ending with a note of

appreciation and gratitude.” She’s not suggesting a drawn-out syrupy Oscar speech. Just “slow

down and say ‘Thank you.’ It’s five seconds. It’s a moment of pause.” Saunders agrees that “words

of affirmation” mean a lot to employees. “Don’t say something if it’s not genuine or doesn’t feel

authentic to you, but if you can talk about something they’re doing well or say something like, ‘I

appreciate and value what you’re doing,’” it’s powerful.

Principles to Remember

Do:

Begin each meeting by sharing a win. It creates positive energy.

Notify your employee in advance if you plan to touch on professional development — those

conversations require reflection and thought.

Be curious. Listen to your colleague’s concerns and provide feedback and ideas on how she

might solve problems.

Don’t:

Cancel. Demonstrate to your employee that he takes priority by arriving on time.

Be rigid. While it’s wise to have an agenda, it’s also important to be flexible.

Forget to say “thank you.” It’s important to show your colleague that you value him.

Case Study #1: Keep the conversation going by asking open-ended questions

Anand Sanwal, the CEO and founder of CB Insights, a company that provides predictive

intelligence on the health of private companies, admits that he wasn’t always good at running

one-on-one meetings with his team members. “I made a series of bad assumptions,” says Anand,

who has standing one-on-one meetings with his team members every two weeks.

“I used to open with a generic, ‘How’s it going?’ But often the answers were terse and not very

substantive.” Anand realized that he needed to get more from these meetings — both for his sake

and the sake of his six direct reports. So now before each one-on-one, Anand inserts a series of

questions into the meeting calendar invites. The questions — for example, Who do you admire in

the organization and why? What is the biggest opportunity we’re missing out on? What don’t you

like about our product? — are meant to help “get the conversation going,” he says.

Recently, he had a one-on-one with one of his star performers — we’ll call him Sam. “He is a rock

star,” says Anand. “We throw a lot at him and everything he does, he does well.”

After Anand and Sam had discussed tactical issues, Anand turned to the questions. He asked

Sam, “What’s your favorite part about what you do?”

Sam’s answer was telling. It turns out that Sam was overwhelmed and felt he was being pulled in

too many directions. Sam was also concerned that he wasn’t getting the skills he needed to

progress in his career.

Based on that one-on-one, Anand realized that he needed to do a better job defining Sam’s role.

“We didn’t get that done in the 45-minute meeting, but it started a conversation about how to get

stuff off of his plate, whether we need to hire other people, or whether we need to stop doing

certain things,” he says. “It was a good talk and something actionable came out of it.”

Case Study #2: Share discussion points ahead of time, but be flexible

Ray Bixler, president and CEO of SkillSurvey, the Berwyn, Pennsylvania-based reference

checking technology company that help organizations make better hiring decisions, aims to meet

with each of his direct reports on a weekly basis.

“I can’t say I’m perfect but I try hard never to cancel,” he says. “And if I do need to cancel, I make

sure I reschedule the meeting for sometime during the same week. I want to demonstrate the

meeting’s importance.”

Ray says he uses “a methodical, structured process” for his one-on-ones. For example, in his

meetings with SkillSurvey’s chief marketing officer, Michelle Reed, “there are certain recurring

themes.” Each week, they talk about regional strategies and programs, and recent marketing

successes and frustrations.

Ray also keeps a running list of other issues he wants to discuss that change on a weekly basis.

These include things like a particular hiring decision or personnel issue. He sends his list of bullet

points to Michelle a day in advance and she does the same.

Ray also understands the necessity of staying flexible. At his most recent meeting with Michelle,

the typical agenda was pushed to the side. “We recently had our client advisory meeting,

followed by our quarterly executive off-site so we spent the first 30 minutes debriefing,” he says.

“I wanted to hear the feedback from clients, get her input on what we could do differently, and

learn what she thought about the product roadmap strategy that emerged.”

Michelle had also recently been given the new responsibility of overseeing the lead generation

team and she wanted to talk with me about how she should create compensation plans for that

team.” Ray helped her problem-solve.

He ended the meeting as he always does, however — by connecting with Michelle on a personal

level and asking about her plans for the weekend. “I care about my employees as individuals. I

want them to know that I appreciate them and what they do.”

Rebecca Knight

is a freelance journalist in Boston and a lecturer at Wesleyan University. Her work has been