SOURCE: How to Make Your One-on-Ones with Employees More Productive.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2018
TOPIC: Employee Development and Feedback
SUMMARY: Effective one-on-one meetings with employees can improve productivity and communication, but require preparation and collaboration from both managers and employees.
KEYWORDS: employee development, one-on-one meetings, manager-employee communication, workplace productivity, feedback and coaching
---

[Document: How to Make Your One-on-Ones with Employees More Productive.pdf]

DEVELOPING EMPLOYEES

How to Make Your One-on-Ones

with Employees More Productive

by Rebecca Knight

AUGUST 08, 2016

One-on-one meetings with direct reports often feel more hurried and disorganized than they

need to be. It’s important to check in regularly with each of your employees, but how can you

make the best use of the time? How can you make the meetings more productive and

collaborative? What do you need to change as the manager and what do you need to ask your

direct report to do differently as well?

What the Experts Say

In the digital age, we tend to communicate with direct reports via email, IM, phone, and text. But

nothing quite beats a face-to-face, one-on-one meeting, says Elizabeth Grace Saunders, the

author of How to Invest Your Time Like Money, and the founder of Real Life E Time Coaching &

Training. “One-on-ones are one of the most important productivity tools you have as a manager,”

she says. “They are where you can ask strategic questions such as, are we focused on the right

things? And from a rapport point of view, they are how you show employees that you value them

and care about them.” In light of this dual purpose, running an effective one-on-one meeting

“requires real cognitive agility,” says Margaret Moore, CEO of Wellcoaches Corporation and co-

author of Organize Your Emotions, Optimize Your Life. Your goal is to show your “commitment to

helping your colleague develop and grow,” but also to “step back, remember the organizational

mandate, and think about how best you can work side-by-side with this person to get things

done.” Here are some tips to get the most out of these meetings.

Block regular time in your schedules

The frequency with which you have one-on-ones will vary depending on the size of your team,

how big or small your organization is, how high-maintenance or experienced your employees are,

and where you happen to sit in the org chart, says Saunders. It doesn’t necessarily matter how

often they occur, but it is important “that you schedule them on your calendar as a repeating

event,” she adds. This is for your own good — when employees know they have a standing

meeting, they are less likely to barrage you with a “constant stream of interruptions.” Experiment

with frequency until you find the right rhythm. A few other logistical matters: one, show up on

time. “If you arrive 10 minutes late to a 20-minute meeting, that’s frustrating to your employee,”

says Saunders. Two, don’t cancel at the last minute. “That sends the exact opposite of the

message that you’re trying to communicate.”

Prepare discussion points

“In an ideal world, you and your colleague would collaborate on an agenda ahead of time,” says

Saunders. But workday pressures and time constraints often get the better of us. A more realistic

goal may be to jot down a list of bullet points that you’d like to discuss. Ask your direct report to

do the same. Once you’re face-to-face, Saunders recommends comparing lists and doing some

“loose timeboxing” to make sure you have time to cover the most pressing points. “You need to

set expectations around what’s most important and create an incentive to focus,” she says. “If the

conversation diverges, it’s your responsibility to get it back on track.” That said, it’s also

important to be flexible, says Moore. In other words, you need some structure but not too much.

These meetings are best when you and your colleague are in “co-creative mode,” she says. Decide

together what you’ll reasonably accomplish in the time allotted: Are there items that can be

tabled for another time?

Be fully present

When it’s time for the one-on-one, you need to “shift gears and get out of autopilot,” says Moore.

Don’t think of the meeting as just another item on your to-do list; instead, consider it a “precious

moment of connection. Think, ‘I’m here to make a difference in the life of this person.’” Devote

your full attention to your employee. Turn off your phone, and mute your computer so as not to

risk being distracted by pings or rings. “It’s so easy to send a message inadvertently that you don’t

care about the other person and that whatever is on your phone is more important,” says Moore.

Start positive

Saunders suggests beginning the meeting “by sharing a win.” You might, for instance,

compliment your colleague on a presentation she gave. “Say, ‘I know you worked hard on and

that, and I think it went very well.’ It’s a great way to start a one-on-one because it creates

positive energy.”

Problem solve

One-on-one meetings are good venues to take on big strategic questions and problem solve. It’s

important that you “strike a balance” between asking questions and listening to what your

colleague has to say,” says Moore. Remember, “You are there to learn.” Some managers ask

employees to build a template listing the challenges they’re facing along with potential solutions

in advance of their meetings, says Saunders. “This forces the employee to go through the

problem-solving process ahead of time,” she adds. “Then you, as the manager, can offer

constructive feedback.”

Ask questions about career plans

Although you should prioritize pressing issues and those of strategic importance, don’t neglect

the personal. One-on-ones can be a good opportunity to help your team members be more

thoughtful about their careers and lives. “You need to take in your colleague as a whole human

being,” says Moore. “Be curious.” While some managers like to talk about professional

development at every meeting, “others like to do it at every other,” says Saunders. It’s up to you,

but if you plan to touch on career plans, it’s prudent to give your employee a heads up because

those conversations “require reflection and thought,” she says. “Give employees the time and

space to think about what they want to express” before you broach the subject. Once you’re face-