SOURCE: How To Share Profits on the Basis of Performance.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Employee Performance Evaluation
SUMMARY: The text describes a profit-sharing program based on employee self-evaluation and peer review, with a focus on performance, teamwork, and personal development.
KEYWORDS: profit-sharing, performance evaluation, employee self-assessment, peer review, performance-based compensation
---

How To Share Profits on the Basis of Performance

Every six months, we evaluate the performance of every one to help us compute shares in our profit-

sharing program. Except "we" is the wrong word. In practice, performance evaluations are done by

the employees themselves. For example, 300 wage earners - salaried employees have a separate

profit-sharing pool and a different evaluation system - fill out forms in which they rate themselves

ona scale of 1 to 9 in 17 specific areas grouped into three categories: performance, teamwork, and

personal development.

Scores of 3, 4, or 5 - the average range - are simply entered on the proper line. Low scores of | or 2

and high scores of 6 to 9 require a sentence or two of explanation.

Each team member's direct report fills out an identical form, and later both people sit down

together and discuss all 17 areas. In cases of disagreement, the rule is only that their overall point

totals must agree within nine points, whereupon the two totals are averaged to reach a final

score. If they cannot narrow the gap to nine points, an arbitration group is ready to step in and help,

but so far mediation has never been needed.

All final scores, names deleted, are then passed to a profit-sharing team that carves out five

categories of performance: a small group of superior performers (about 5% of the total), a larger

group of better than-average workers (roughly 20%), an average group amounting to about 50% of

the total work force, a below-average group of 20%, and a small group of poor performers who are

often in some danger of losing their jobs.

The total pool of profits to be shared is then divided by the number of workers to find an average

share -- for the purpose of illustration, let's say $1,000. Members of the top group get a check for

125% of that amount or $1,250. Members of the next group get 110% ($1,100), of the large middle

group, 100% or $1,000, and so on down to $900 and $750.

Yes, people do complain from time to time, especially if they think they've missed a higher share by

only a point or two. The usual way of dealing with such situations ts to help the individual improve

his or her performance in enough areas to ensure a higher score the next time. But overall

satisfaction with the system is very high, partly because fellow workers invented it, administer it,

and constantly revise it in an effort to make it more equitable. The person currently in charge of the

BBRC profit-sharing team is an hourly worker from the shipping department.

Please check one: CJ Self C} Coach

PERFORMANCE

Customer Satisfaction

How do | rate the quality of the work | do?

OU

Do | contribute my best to producing a product to be proud of, one that, | would purchase

or encourage someone else to purchase?

Score

Cost-Effectiveness

To what extent do | perform my job in a cost-effective manner?

Do | strive to work smarter?

To work more productively with fewer errors?

To complete my job functions in a timely manner, eliminating overtime when possible?

OOU0U0D

To reduce waste where possible in all departments?

Score

Attitude

To what extent do | have a positive attitude toward my personal, department, and company goals as C}

expressed by my actions, feelings, and thoughts?

Do | like to come to work?

Am | thoughtful and considerate toward fellow members?

Do ! work to promote better attitudes?

OO0U0

Do | demonstrate company loyalty?

Score

BB verail capita

Responsibility

To what extent do | take responsibility for my own job?

Do | accept a challenge?

Do | willingly take on or look for additional responsibilities?

Do | work independently of supervision?

Score

Ideas

To what extent have | offered ideas and suggestions for improvements?

Do | suggest better ways of doing things instead of just complaining?

Score

Problem Solver/Preventer

To what extent have | contributed to solving or preventing problems?

Do | anticipate problem situations and try to avoid them?

Do | push-pull when necessary?

Do | keep an open line of communication?

Score

Safety

To what extent do my actions show my concern for safety for myself and others?

Do | alert co-workers to unsafe procedures?

Do | alert my coach to unsafe conditions in my department?

Score

OUO0U

OO

OOU0

OOO

BB eztail-copital

Quality Image

To what extent have | displayed a high-quality image in my appearance, language, personal hygiene

and working environment?

Score

TEAMWORK

Contribution to Groups

How would | rate my contribution to my department's performance?

Am | aware of department goals?

Do | contribute to a team?

Do | communicate with team members?

Score

Communication

To what extent do | keep others informed to prevent problems from occurring?

Do | work to promote communication between departments?

Do I relay information?

Do | speak up at meetings and let my opinions and feelings be known?

Score

Willingness to Work Together

To what extent am | willing to share the responsibility of getting the work done?

Do | voluntarily assist others to obtain results?

Do | demonstrate a desire to accomplish department goals?

Do | complete paperwork accurately and thoroughly and work toward a smooth flow of information

throughout the company?

Score

OO00

OOO00

OOOO

BB tail copital

Attendance and Timeliness

Do | contribute to the team by being present and on time for work (including after breaks and

lunch)?

Do | realize the inconvenience and hardship caused by my absence or tardiness?

Score

PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT

To what extent am | actively involved in lifelong learning?

Taking classes is not the only way to learn.

Other ways include use of our resource centre or libraries for reading books, articles, etc.

Score

Do | improve my job performance by applying what | have learned?

Score

Do | ask questions pertaining to my job and other jobs too?

Score