SOURCE: How-to-Hang-On-to-Your-High-Potentials.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Talent Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of identifying and retaining high-potential employees through a rigorous assessment process involving supervisor nominations, annual appraisals, and reliable evaluation tools.
KEYWORDS: high-potential employees, talent assessment, employee development, talent management, performance appraisal
---

assessment can be costly. Not only is it wasteful—in terms of training and developing people unlikely to become leaders—but it undermines

employee morale and the credibility of the whole program. Furthermore, poor assessments also mean that people who have strong potential

are excluded. Disheartening a prospective star for the wrong reasons can be extremely expensive.

Identifying promising candidates.

Selection usually begins either with nomination by the employee’s immediate supervisor or through the annual appraisal process. At several

companies we studied, including a Caribbean financial services firm, an Italian utility, and a Cypriot bank, managers are expected to pinpoint

high-potential employees. At some companies, managers are expected to put forward candidates from their own departments but can

nominate individuals from other departments as well.

Other companies, like one Danish bank we studied as well as a European airline and a Scandinavian online service provider, allow employees

to nominate themselves. However, we found that the practice is not prevalent, because it carries risks. Across the board, people overestimate

their potential. Their self-assessments might be useful but need to be taken in context.

Using annual appraisals to make the first cut brings more objectivity to the process. At a gas pipeline company we studied, two years’ worth

of outstanding reports qualify an individual as high potential. At an insurance company, the annual appraisal process specifically calls for

categorizing individuals as lateral, potential, or high potential: lateral signifies that someone is ready to move into positions only at the same

level; potential, readiness for promotion in two years; and high potential, the ability to make two major moves upward in the next five years.

But annual appraisals alone are not enough—research has shown that most high performers are not, in fact, high potentials. That’s why we

recommend supplementing appraisals with a subjective view of candidates—like supervisors’ recommendations and other inputs.

After you’ve identified your first cut of candidates, the next step is to develop valid and reliable assessments of their potential. Many

companies routinely use personality tests to do this. The practice is somewhat more commonplace in North America and somewhat less

popular in Asia and Africa. We don’t recommend it; though some research in the early 1990s provided evidence that personality can predict

job performance, it has become clear that personality tests have low validity. Furthermore, if they’re self-reported, you can’t prevent people

from gaming them. The best tools for assessing potential are references and behavioral interviews. At some companies, psychometric tests

are used only to customize development plans for candidates who have already been selected by other means.

Increasingly, major organizations also complement their own internal appraisals with periodic input from qualified external partners.

External assessments decrease the element of bias and offer a broad set of benchmarks—allowing companies to compare their talent against

strong outside candidates.

Just as important as the choice of methods is the person conducting the assessment. Most people aren’t nearly as good as they think at sizing

others up. Indeed, most managers are dismal at predicting employees’ future accomplishments. The good news is that it’s not about

intuition: Accurate assessment can be learned. And the right person using the right model can learn to assess potential (predicting whether a

person will not be promoted, will be promoted once, or will be promoted twice or more over the next four to five years) with 85% accuracy.

Communicating wisely.

Many organizations try to “hide” high-potential classifications, as if that were possible. A study conducted by Anthony J. Fresina and

Associates in 1987, featuring 225 corporations in 10 industries, found that 78% of companies did not inform high potentials of their

designation, but 90% of the time employees knew anyway. Yet even in that study, informing high potentials of their status was clearly

associated with enhanced retention and improved productivity.

Nonetheless, this is a delicate topic. If you’re completely open about who is on the list, you have to prepare for the disappointment of those

not anointed and even the frustration of high potentials whose expectations are not met. We believe strongly in transparency—let people

know if they’re high potential; acknowledge it when they are not. To some extent, the instinct to keep the list private is understandable,

because the process is new at many firms and because companies have so much trouble evaluating even past performance. Still, we’ve found

that the main reason companies don’t communicate openly is that their process is overly subjective or unfair and therefore indefensible.

To make sure they provided the right type of feedback, the companies we studied would typically inform managers in private discussions

that they had or hadn’t been designated as high potentials. Some companies also communicated status indirectly, by suggesting enrollment

in special programs or appointing the managers to special developmental roles and assignments. However, transparency wins over secrecy.

Develop and Reward Thoughtfully

The development of high potentials needs to go beyond formal education programs and include self-directed learning and other types of

training. On-the-job development is also key. Changing underlying motives and traits is hard, but a combination of targeted mentoring,

coaching, education, and job experiences can achieve considerable impact. The best companies in our study look for experiences that will

both challenge and motivate people, and strongly encourage senior leaders’ involvement in key activities like mentoring.

Programs for high potentials typically employ a handful of time-tested methods. One Eastern European financial services company we

looked at offers a classic example of a formal, well-thought-out program. At this firm, in addition to performing their regular jobs and stretch

assignments, selected young middle managers attend a 15-month training program designed and taught by business-school faculty and

featuring case studies and other business-school content. They receive coaching at the same time. When the program ends, they get a three-

to six-month foreign assignment, chosen for its opportunities for personal development, to do a job closely related to their job at home.

Make sure you don’t overload people. There is a ne line between a

challenging assignment and an overwhelming one.