SOURCE: How-to-Hang-On-to-Your-High-Potentials.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Employee Development
SUMMARY: Strategies for developing and retaining high-potential employees, including job rotations, leadership involvement, and appropriate rewards.
KEYWORDS: high potentials, job rotation, leadership development, talent management, employee retention
---

to six-month foreign assignment, chosen for its opportunities for personal development, to do a job closely related to their job at home.

Make sure you don’t overload people. There is a ne line between a

challenging assignment and an overwhelming one.

It’s useful to involve company leaders as teachers—in both formal programs and informal conversations—and as networking resources. High

potentials need visibility with senior executives, as well as role models of leadership. At a major pharmaceutical company we studied, the

CEO and other members of the senior team meet one-on-one with people on the leadership development track. “They’ll ask them about

their experience being a member of the talent pool,” explains the company’s executive vice president of HR and corporate affairs. “Do they

feel they’re getting appropriate development? Are they getting good coaching from their leader? How can we help them? Do they understand

the benefits of being a member of the global talent pool? When the CEO spends time doing this, it shows you how important he thinks it is.”

Job rotations.

It’s well established that on-the-job experiences are by far the biggest lever you can pull in developing the skills that will take high potentials

to larger, more senior, and more complex positions. As long ago as 1988, a study on managing high potentials conducted by C. Brooklyn Derr,

Candace Jones, and Edmund L. Toomey showed that 84% of firms used job rotations as the primary strategy to develop high potentials.

Rotations that develop managers include bigger scale, bigger scope, line-to-staff or staff-to-line switches, cross-moves (handling a very

different set of activities across divisions, functions, or industries), start-ups, turnarounds, change management initiatives, and international

assignments. Changes in level, organizational unit, location, industry, and circumstances all help managers grow. Ideally, job assignments

will involve novelty and the need to adapt. The greater the change in scope and responsibility, the greater the learning. There is, however, a

fine line between a challenging assignment and an overwhelming one.

Because job rotations are costly, they should be chosen with care. Here again, it helps to go back to the strategic goals of the organization.

What is it that this high potential would need the most to further contribute to our strategic objectives? If it’s, say, broader international

experience, consider a geographical shift with an eventual increase in job scale. But make sure you don’t overload people—if you’re expecting

somebody to lead a significant overseas expansion, don’t add too many new challenges in other dimensions.

Rewards and incentives.

Some companies seem to believe that the high-potential classification is a significant reward in itself. But the best companies think beyond

the benefits of participation in specific development programs and make considered choices about their high potentials’ compensation, as

well as how it’s paid out.

Financial incentives should not be excessive—compensation is only one part of any reward strategy—and they must be properly aligned with

the objective of building lasting strengths for the company. And external incentives like money work only in conjunction with internal

motivators like the need for achievement and recognition. While companies need to pay people well to attract and retain high potentials in

the first place, they should be careful not to overdo it, because that is the surest way to demotivate employees who are not classified as high

potentials, who may feel unfairly paid.

If people are your most important asset, as companies like to say, then high potentials are vital to your future. We are hesitant to definitively

label the processes we describe here “best practices,” because they are evolving and we don’t yet have long-term evidence of their merit. But

we give credit to the companies experimenting with new approaches, because they are on the vanguard as we move into what may prove to

be the most intense battle yet in the global war for talent.

A version of this article appeared in the October 2011 issue of Harvard Business Review.

Claudio Fernández-Aráoz is a senior adviser at the global executive search rm Egon Zehnder, an executive fellow at Harvard Business School, and the

author of It’s Not the How or the What but the Who (Harvard Business Review Press, 2014).

Boris Groysberg

is the Richard P. Chapman Professor of Business Administration at Harvard Business School, Faculty Afliate at the HBS Gender Initiative, and the

coauthor, with Michael Slind, of Talk, Inc. (Harvard Business Review Press, 2012). Twitter: @bgroysberg.

Nitin Nohria

is dean of Harvard Business School.

This article is about LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT



 FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

Related Topics: EMPLOYEE RETENTION | TALENT MANAGEMENT | MANAGING PEOPLE

Comments

Leave a Comment

POST

1 COMMENTS

randeepa gamagedara 3 years ago

Very important and useful thoughts.

REPLY 0  0 

 JOIN THE CONVERSATION

POSTING GUIDELINES

We hope the conversations that take place on HBR.org will be energetic, constructive, and thought-provoking. To comment, readers must sign in or register. And to ensure the quality of the discussion, our

moderating team will review all comments and may edit them for clarity, length, and relevance. Comments that are overly promotional, mean-spirited, or off-topic may be deleted per the moderators' judgment. All

postings become the property of Harvard Business Publishing.