SOURCE: How-to-Hang-On-to-Your-High-Potentials.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Executive Potential Assessment
SUMMARY: A model for assessing executive potential, focusing on motives, leadership assets, and sense of identity as core elements.
KEYWORDS: executive potential, leadership assets, motives, identity, talent management
---

potential.

A basic model for assessing executive potential, developed by Egon Zehnder International, is depicted in the exhibit “The Essentials of

Executive Potential.” It contains five elements, shown in the exhibit as a section of five concentric rings. These range from very difficult to

change (motives) to highly teachable (skills).

At the inner core are the individual’s motives. These predict

The Essentials of Executive Potential

consistent patterns of behavior over time. They tend to be stable, are

This model shows the elements of potential, with the hardest usually not conscious, and are highly related to what people enjoy and

to change—motives and leadership assets like the ability to

get energized or engaged by. Does the person get satisfaction from

engage others—at the core. Wrapped around those traits is a

seeing others succeed? Does she demonstrate a passion for the

leader’s sense of identity. It has a major impact on whether a

manager will use a particular capability. He might, for organization’s mission over personal reward? Foundational research at

instance, be able to create change in an organization, but if he Harvard long ago showed the relevance of the “Three Social

doesn’t dene himself as a change agent, he won’t. High

Motives”—achievement, affiliation, and influence. One form of the last

levels of competence alone, therefore, can propel people to

motive, the desire for socialized influence (having a positive impact on

some success and some promotions but won’t be enough to

sustain them in large leadership roles. others for the good of the larger organization), is a predictor of senior

executive potential. To a certain extent, it may be something you’re

born with—or at least a product of early social interactions. However,

positive work experiences and wise mentorship can help people

develop better motives.

One level out you’ll find a series of abilities we call “leadership assets,”

which predict how far and how fast an executive will grow. There are

four important assets: A high potential derives insight; she can make

sense of a vast range of information and discover and apply new ideas

that transform past practices or set new directions. She also effectively

engages others through emotions and logic, communicating a

persuasive vision and connecting individuals. She demonstrates

resolve and keeps on driving toward goals despite challenges. Finally,

and perhaps most important, a high potential seeks understanding; she

constantly looks for new experiences, ideas, and knowledge; asks for

feedback; and adjusts her behavior accordingly.

The desire to have a positive

impact on others for the good

Find this and other HBR graphics in our VISUAL LIBRARY  of the organization is a key

predictor of executive

potential.

At the next level is a sense of self, or identity. Identity is how you see yourself on the stage. For high potentials, this means envisioning

yourself as a senior executive—not just for the prestige but because you want to fulfill a passion for developing a team or make things

happen. Individual contributors may be motivated by others’ success, for instance, but may have no wish to play an enterprise-wide role.

The characteristics found in the three innermost rings—which are so hard to change or learn—are essential to high potential. The things in the

outer two rings of the model—skills and knowledge—can be acquired. Skills—what an executive is actually able to do and apply—can

effectively be taught or learned on the job. And in order to perform an individual job well, every manager needs some specialized knowledge

(say, about a market, a business, or certain practices), which should be tested and eventually supplied before any critical promotion.

Align Development to Strategy

Many companies’ programs for high potentials simply replicate those in place at other firms, as if talent could be developed with an off-the-

shelf model, without taking into account an organization’s goals. Potential is situational, and programs that manage it should be aligned with

a company’s strategy. (If your value proposition to employees is that you’ll develop them for successful careers wherever they go, that’s a

legitimate aim, but it’s not something that will necessarily strengthen your talent pipeline.) There is no universal great manager, as we found

when conducting an analysis of a large group of GE “graduates” who went on to become CEOs at other companies. Some added tremendous

value to their new organizations, but others proved disastrous. Doubtless all of them went through a rigorous development process at GE,

but they could excel in a new company only if it was a strong strategic, organizational, and industry fit.

If, for instance, a company’s strategy is to grow in emerging markets, it might focus on a more global talent pool as well as people who have

demonstrated flexibility operating in unfamiliar settings. In contrast, a company that is committed to being the low-cost leader might target

people who are highly disciplined and results-oriented.

Best-practice organizations start with this strategic focus but periodically reexamine their strategic priorities and refresh their pool of

candidates. Such flexibility is key; from what we’ve seen, companies that set rigid goals about the type or number of high potentials, instead

of taking a dynamic approach, become complacent and don’t get much out of these programs.

One more note on tying talent management to strategy—it’s not a matter to be left to HR. If the senior management team is not involved, the

process may be doomed. It can be tough to get the senior-most executives viscerally engaged in talent development, but if they aren’t

personally invested from the start, the whole program could easily head down the wrong path.

Select with Care

Though it can be tricky, choosing candidates for these programs is an extremely important part of the process: The consequences of a faulty

assessment can be costly. Not only is it wasteful—in terms of training and developing people unlikely to become leaders—but it undermines

employee morale and the credibility of the whole program. Furthermore, poor assessments also mean that people who have strong potential