SOURCE: How-to-Hang-On-to-Your-High-Potentials.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: This article discusses strategies for companies to effectively manage and retain their high-potential employees, a critical challenge in the ongoing war for talent.
KEYWORDS: high potentials, talent management, leadership development, employee retention, succession planning
---

LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT

How to Hang On to Your High Potentials

by Claudio Fernández-Aráoz, Boris Groysberg, and Nitin Nohria

FROM THE OCTOBER 2011 ISSUE

T

he war for talent shows no signs of letting up, even in sectors

experiencing modest growth. According to a global study we

conducted, only 15% of companies in North America and Asia

believe that they have enough qualified successors for key positions.

The picture is slightly better in Europe, but even so, fewer than 30% of

European companies feel confident about the quality and amount of

talent in their pipelines. Moreover, in the regions where many

companies are focusing their growth strategies—emerging markets—

the supply of experienced managers is the most limited, and the

ARTWORK: VINCENT FOURNIER, THE MAN MACHINE: REEMB #1, PAL, 2010, BARCELONA shortage is expected to continue for another two decades.

One popular battle strategy is to institute programs aimed at “high potentials”—the people that companies believe may become their future

leaders. The appeal is clear for both sides: Promising managers are attracted to companies known for strong development opportunities, and

a well-managed talent pipeline dramatically increases the odds that a company will appoint great leaders at the top.

But these programs aren’t simple to execute. The selection criteria are often confusing. Employees are frequently mystified by who’s

included and who’s excluded. Company leaders have to weigh the upside of putting top performers into developmental opportunities against

the downside of temporarily distracting them from an enterprise’s immediate needs. Firms risk demoralizing solid contributors who are not

anointed as high potentials—the vast majority of managers, the people who keep the trains running on time. Sometimes the chosen few don’t

stick around or don’t live up to expectations. And too often, the programs fail to maintain momentum, leaving companies unsure they have

paid off and fueling worker cynicism.

There are exceptions, of course. Companies such as GE, Unilever, PepsiCo, and Shell have long been known for their careful attention to

talent management. But those companies are not the norm.

As far as we know, no one has yet studied the process of managing high potentials from end to end. In order to fill this void, in 2007 we

launched a joint research project with the executive search firm Egon Zehnder International, conducting a large-scale cross-sectional and

longitudinal analysis of how companies assess and manage their rising stars. We also interviewed executives from 70 companies that have

programs for high potentials—firms of all sizes, located around the world.

From this research, we identified a set of cutting- edge practices. Some are from unexpected places—such as an Argentine manufacturer of

steel tubes that’s become an international leader despite regional and industry turbulence, and a Turkish bank that has gone global. Some are

broad—such as the direct involvement of a pharmaceutical-device maker’s senior management team in the development of that company’s

600 most promising leaders. Though high-potential programs abound, the field is so new and so dynamic that these practices haven’t yet

been time-tested. Still, they can provide valuable ideas and inspiration to companies looking to strengthen their talent pipelines.

One important finding of our research was that the effective management of the next generation of leaders always encompasses three sets of

activities. The first involves the establishment of clear strategic priorities, which shape the way companies groom high-potential leaders. The

second involves the careful selection of high-potential candidates—and communicating who they are to others in the organization. This can

be touchy. And the third comprises the management of talent itself—how high potentials are developed, rewarded, and retained.

There is no cookie-cutter method for creating a successful program. Just as you can’t lift any other people management process directly from

another company, you can’t assume that a high-potential program that works somewhere else will work for you. Your strategy and your

culture influence the nature of the program that will be most effective. If your strategy is to aggressively expand through acquisitions in

emerging markets, for instance, you’ll need a different type of program than you would if you were pursuing low-cost leadership through

operational and productivity improvements.

We’ll outline the strategic, selection, and managerial aspects of effective high-potential programs below. But first, let’s start with a definition.

What Is Potential?

We were a little surprised to discover how many companies launch high-potential programs without first clearly establishing what they mean

by “potential.” We use the following simple definition: Potential indicates whether someone will be able to succeed in a bigger role in the

future. It is a person’s ability to grow and to handle responsibilities of greater scale and scope. By “greater scale” we mean a job in the same area

but with, say, a larger budget or staff; by “greater scope” we mean a job involving activities of substantially more breadth and complexity.

Consider a sales vice president who consistently meets her budget forecasts. Could you reasonably expect her to take responsibility for

marketing as well? Might she be able to lead a multidivisional initiative—repositioning the business from a product- centric to a customer-

centric organization? She doesn’t have to be ready to take it on tomorrow to be high potential. However, if you’re going to invest significantly

in her development, you want to be reasonably confident that the investment will pay off.

Before classifying her as an up-and-coming leader, then, you’d look for signs of her capacity to learn quickly on the job, genuine interest in

broadening her scope (is she inclined to show up at meetings where she might learn something that doesn’t directly relate to her job?), and

willingness to take on extra work on short notice. She might be very bright and a highly valued contributor but still not qualify as a high

potential.

A basic model for assessing executive potential, developed by Egon Zehnder International, is depicted in the exhibit “The Essentials of

Executive Potential.” It contains five elements, shown in the exhibit as a section of five concentric rings. These range from very difficult to