SOURCE: Is Yours a Learning Organization - HBR.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.05 HFT - Knowledge Sharing
TOPIC: Organizational Learning
SUMMARY: This text discusses how supportive learning environments, concrete learning processes, and knowledge sharing can help create a learning organization.
KEYWORDS: learning organization, organizational culture, knowledge sharing, continuous improvement, process improvement
---

Supportive learning environments allow

time for a pause in the action and

encourage thoughtful review of the

organization’s processes.

To change a culture of blame and silence about errors at Children’s Hospitals and Clinics of

Minnesota, COO Julie Morath instituted a new policy of “blameless reporting” that

encouraged replacing threatening terms such as “errors” and “investigations” with less

emotionally laden terms such as “accidents” and “analysis.” For Morath, the culture of

hospitals must be, as she told us, “one of everyone working together to understand safety,

identify risks, and report them with out fear of blame.” The result was that people started

to collaborate throughout the organization to talk about and change behaviors, policies,

and systems that put patients at risk. Over time, these learning activities yielded

measurable reductions in preventable deaths and illnesses at the institution.

Building Block 2: Concrete learning processes and practices.

A learning organization is not cultivated effortlessly. It arises from a series of concrete steps

and widely distributed activities, not unlike the workings of business processes such as

logistics, billing, order fulfillment, and product development. Learning processes involve

the generation, collection, interpretation, and dissemination of information. They include

experimentation to develop and test new products and services; intelligence gathering to

keep track of competitive, customer, and technological trends; disciplined analysis and

interpretation to identify and solve problems; and education and training to develop both

new and established employees.

For maximum impact, knowledge must be shared in systematic and clearly defined ways.

Sharing can take place among individuals, groups, or whole organizations. Knowledge can

move laterally or vertically within a firm. The knowledge-sharing process can, for instance,

be internally focused, with an eye toward taking corrective action. Right after a project is

completed, the process might call for post-audits or reviews that are then shared with

others engaged in similar tasks. Alternatively, knowledge sharing can be externally

oriented—for instance, it might include regularly scheduled forums with customers or

subject-matter experts to gain their perspectives on the company’s activities or challenges.

Together, these concrete processes ensure that essential information moves quickly and

efficiently into the hands and heads of those who need it.

Perhaps the best known example of this approach is the U.S. Army’s After Action Review

(AAR) process, now widely used by many companies, which involves a systematic

debriefing after every mission, project, or critical activity. This process is framed by four

simple questions: What did we set out to do? What actually happened? Why did it happen?

What do we do next time? (Which activities do we sustain, and which do we improve?) In

the army, lessons move quickly up and down the chain of command, and laterally through

sanctioned websites. Then the results are codified by the Center for Army Lessons Learned,

or CALL. Such dissemination and codification of learning is vital for any organization.

Building Block 3: Leadership that reinforces learning.

Organizational learning is strongly influenced by the behavior of leaders. When leaders

actively question and listen to employees—and thereby prompt dialogue and debate—

people in the institution feel encouraged to learn. If leaders signal the importance of

spending time on problem identification, knowledge transfer, and reflective post-audits,

these activities are likely to flourish. When people in power demonstrate through their own

behavior a willingness to entertain alternative points of view, employees feel emboldened

to offer new ideas and options.

When leaders demonstrate a willingness to

entertain alternative points of view,

employees feel emboldened to offer new

ideas.

Harvey Golub, former chief executive of American Express, was renowned for his ability to

teach employees and managers. He pushed hard for active reasoning and forced managers

to think creatively and in unexpected ways. A subordinate observed that he often “came at

things from a different angle” to ensure that conventional approaches were not accepted

without first being scrutinized. “I am far less interested in people having the right answer

than in their thinking about issues the right way,” Golub told us. “What criteria do they use?

Why do they think the way they do? What alternatives have they considered? What

premises do they have? What rocks are they standing on?” His questions were not designed

to yield particular answers, but rather to generate truly open-minded discussion.

The three building blocks of organizational learning reinforce one another and, to some

degree, overlap. Just as leadership behaviors help create and sustain supportive learning

environments, such environments make it easier for managers and employees to execute

concrete learning processes and practices smoothly and efficiently. Continuing the virtuous

circle, concrete processes provide opportunities for leaders to behave in ways that foster

learning and to cultivate that behavior in others.

Uses for the Organizational Learning Tool

Our online diagnostic tool is designed to help you answer two questions about the

organizational unit that you lead or in which you work: “To what extent is your unit

functioning as a learning organization?” and “What are the relationships among the factors

that affect learning in your unit?” People who complete the survey rate how accurately a

series of brief, descriptive sentences in each of the three building blocks of learning

describe their organization and its learning culture. For the list of statements in the

complete survey, information about where to find it online, and details about how it works,

see the exhibit “Assess the Depth of Learning in Your Organization.”

Assess the Depth of Learning in There are two primary ways to use the

Your Organization

survey. First, an individual can take it to get a

This diagnostic survey, which you take quick sense of her work unit or project team.

online, is designed to help you determine

Second, several members of a unit can each

how well your company functions as a

complete the survey and average their scores.

learning organization. The complete

interactive version, available at los.hbs.edu,

Either way, the next step is to compare

includes all the self-assessment statements

individual or group self-evaluations with

to the right; they are divided into three