SOURCE: Is Yours a Learning Organization - HBR.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.05 HFT - Knowledge Sharing
TOPIC: Learning Organization Assessment
SUMMARY: This text describes how to assess an organization's learning capabilities through a survey and comparison to benchmark data.
KEYWORDS: learning organization, self-assessment, benchmark data, organizational learning
---

how well your company functions as a

complete the survey and average their scores.

learning organization. The complete

interactive version, available at los.hbs.edu,

Either way, the next step is to compare

includes all the self-assessment statements

individual or group self-evaluations with

to the right; they are divided into three

sections, each representing one building overall benchmark scores from our baseline

block of the learning organization. In the first

group of organizations. The benchmark data

two blocks, your task is to rate, on a seven-

point scale, how accurately each statement are stratified into quartiles—that is, the

describes the organizational unit in which

bottom 25%, the next 25%, and so on—for

you work. In the third block, your task is to

each attribute, arrayed around a median (see

rate how often the managers (or manager) to

whom you report exemplify the behavior

the exhibit “Benchmark Scores for the

described.

Learning Organization Survey”). Once you

have obtained your own scores online, you

Dynamic scoring online synthesizes your

ratings (some are reverse-scored because can identify the quartile in which your scores

they reflect undesirable behaviors) and

fall and reflect on how they match your prior

yields an estimated score for each building

block and subcomponent. Synthesized expectations about where you stand.

scores are then converted to a zero-to-100

scale for ease of comparison with other

people in your unit and other units in your Benchmark Scores for the Learning

organization. In addition, you can compare Organization Survey

your scores with benchmark data that

Our baseline data were derived from surveys

appear in the following sidebar.

of large groups of senior executives in a

variety of industries who completed an

eight-week general management program at

Harvard Business School. We first conducted

Building Block 1: Supportive

Building Block 1: Supportive the survey in the spring of 2006 with 100

Learning Environment executives in order to evaluate the statistical

properties of the survey and assess the

Psychological Safety underlying constructs. That autumn we

surveyed another 125 senior executives to

use as our benchmark data.

In this unit, it is easy to speak up about what

is on your mind.

After you’ve taken the complete survey at

los.hbs.edu, compare the average scores for

If you make a mistake in this unit, it is often

people in your group with the benchmark

held against you.*

scores in the following chart. If your group’s

scores fall at or below the median in a

People in this unit are usually comfortable particular building block or subcomponent

talking about problems and disagreements. —especially if they are in the bottom

quartile—consider initiating an

improvement effort in that area. One

People in this unit are eager to share

possibility is to assemble a team to

information about what does and doesn’t

brainstorm specific, concrete strategies for

work.

enhancing the area of weakness. In any

building block or subcomponent where your

Keeping your cards close to your vest is the group’s scores fall above the median—

best way to get ahead in this unit.* especially if they are in the top quartile—

consider partnering with other units in your

organization that may benefit from specific,

Appreciation of Differences

concrete strategies that you can articulate

and model for them in the area of weakness.

Differences in opinion are welcome in this

unit.

Unless an opinion is consistent with what

most people in this unit believe, it won’t be

valued.*

This unit tends to handle differences of

opinion privately or off-line, rather than

addressing them directly with the group.*

In this unit, people are open to alternative

ways of getting work done.

Openness to New Ideas

In this unit, people value new ideas.

Unless an idea has been around for a long

Having compared individual or unit scores

time, no one in this unit wants to hear it.*

with the benchmarks, it’s possible to identify

areas of excellence and opportunities for

In this unit, people are interested in better

ways of doing things. improvement. If employees in multiple units

wish to take the survey, you can also make

In this unit, people often resist untried

the comparisons unit-by-unit or

approaches.*

companywide. Even if just two people from

different parts of a firm compare scores, they

Time for Reflection

can pinpoint cultural differences,

People in this unit are overly stressed.* commonalities, and things to learn from one

another. They may also discover that their

Despite the workload, people in this unit find

unit—or even the company—lags behind in

time to review how the work is going.

many areas. By pooling individual and unit

scores, organizations as a whole can begin to

In this unit, schedule pressure gets in the

way of doing a good job.* address specific problems.

In this unit, people are too busy to invest

Holding Up the Mirror at Eutilize

time in improvement.*

Consider how managers from a major

There is simply no time for reflection in this

European public utility, which we will call

unit.*

Eutilize, used the survey to assess their

company’s readiness for and progress in

Building Block 2: Concrete

Learning Processes and becoming a learning organization. In the

Practices summer of 2006, 19 midlevel managers took

the survey. Before learning their scores,

Experimentation

participants were asked to estimate where

This unit experiments frequently with new they thought Eutilize would stand in relation

ways of working.

to the benchmark results from other firms.

This unit experiments frequently with new

product or service offerings. Virtually all the participants predicted

average or better scores, in keeping with the

This unit has a formal process for conducting

company’s espoused goal of using knowledge

and evaluating experiments or new ideas.

and best-practice transfers as a source of

competitive advantage. But the results did

This unit frequently employs prototypes or

not validate those predictions. To their great

simulations when trying out new ideas.

surprise, Eutilize’s managers rated

themselves below the median baseline scores

Information Collection

in almost all categories. For example, out of a