SOURCE: Is Yours a Learning Organization - HBR.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.05 HFT - Knowledge Sharing
TOPIC: Organizational Learning
SUMMARY: This text discusses the multidimensional nature of organizational learning and the need for tailored interventions to build a learning organization.
KEYWORDS: learning organization, learning culture, learning processes, learning leadership, organizational change
---

learning appear to require more explicit,

targeted interventions. We studied dozens of

organizations in depth when developing our survey questions and then used the

instrument with four firms that had diverse sizes, locations, and missions. All four had

higher scores in learning leadership than in concrete learning processes or supportive

learning environment. Performance often varies from category to category. This suggests

that installing formal learning processes and cultivating a supportive learning climate

requires steps beyond simply modifying leadership behavior.

Organizations are not monolithic.

Managers must be sensitive to differences among departmental processes and behaviors as

they strive to build learning organizations. Groups may vary in their focus or learning

maturity. Managers need to be especially sensitive to local cultures of learning, which can

vary widely across units. For example, an early study of medical errors documented

significant differences in rates of reported mistakes among nursing units at the same

hospital, reflecting variations in norms and behaviors established by unit managers. In

most settings, a one-size-fits-all strategy for building a learning organization is unlikely to

be successful.

Managers need to be especially sensitive to

local cultures of learning, which can vary

widely across units.

Comparative performance is the critical scorecard.

Simply because an organization scores itself highly in a certain area of learning behavior or

processes does not make that area a source of competitive advantage. Surprisingly, most of

the organizations we surveyed identified the very same domains as their areas of strength.

“Openness to new ideas” and “education and training” almost universally scored higher

than other attributes or categories, probably because of their obvious links to

organizational improvement and personal development. A high score therefore conveys

limited information about performance. The most important scores on critical learning

attributes are relative—how your organization compares with competitors or benchmark

data.

Learning is multidimensional.

All too often, companies’ efforts to improve learning are concentrated in a single area—

more time for reflection, perhaps, or greater use of post-audits and after-action reviews.

Our analysis suggests, however, that each of the building blocks of a learning organization

(environment, processes, and leadership behaviors) is itself multidimensional and that

those elements respond to different forces. You can enhance learning in an organization in

various ways, depending on which subcomponent you emphasize—for example, when it

comes to improving the learning environment, one company might want to focus on

psychological safety and another on time for reflection. Managers need to be thoughtful

when selecting the levers of change and should think broadly about the available options.

Our survey opens up the menu of possibilities. • • •

The goal of our organizational learning tool is to promote dialogue, not critique. All the

organizations we studied found that reviewing their survey scores was a chance to look

into a mirror. The most productive discussions were those where managers wrestled with

the implications of their scores, especially the comparative dimensions (differences by

level, subunit, and so forth), instead of simply assessing performance harshly or favorably.

These managers sought to understand their organizations’ strengths and weaknesses and

to paint an honest picture of their cultures and leadership. Not surprisingly, we believe that

the learning organization survey is best used not merely as a report card or bottom-line

score but rather as a diagnostic instrument—in other words, as a tool to foster learning.

David A. Garvin

is the C. Roland Christensen Professor at Harvard Business School.

Amy C. Edmondson is the Novartis Professor of Leadership and Management at Harvard

Business School and author of Teaming: How Organizations Learn, Innovate, and Compete

in the Knowledge Economy (Jossey-Bass, 2012). She received her PhD in organizational

behavior, AM in psychology, and AB in engineering and design, all from Harvard University.

Francesca Gino

is a professor at Harvard Business School, a faculty affiliate of the Behavioral Insights

Group, and the author of Sidetracked: Why Our Decisions Get Derailed, and How We Can Stick to the Plan

(Harvard Business Review Press, 2013). She cochairs an HBS executive education program on applying behavioral

economics to organizational problems.Follow her on Twitter @francescagino.

This article is about KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT

 FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

Related Topics: MARKET RESEARCH

Comments

Leave a Comment

POST

0 COMMENTS

 JOIN THE CONVERSATION

POSTING GUIDELINES

We hope the conversations that take place on HBR.org will be energetic, constructive, and thought-provoking. To comment, readers must

sign in or register. And to ensure the quality of the discussion, our moderating team will review all comments and may edit them for clarity,

length, and relevance. Comments that are overly promotional, mean-spirited, or off-topic may be deleted per the moderators' judgment.

All postings become the property of Harvard Business Publishing.