SOURCE: Is Yours a Learning Organization - HBR.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.05 HFT - Knowledge Sharing
TOPIC: Organizational Learning and Adaptation
SUMMARY: The text analyzes a company's low scores on key measures of organizational learning and the need to change its established culture.
KEYWORDS: organizational learning, organizational culture, continuous improvement, benchmarking, information collection
---

competitive advantage. But the results did

This unit frequently employs prototypes or

not validate those predictions. To their great

simulations when trying out new ideas.

surprise, Eutilize’s managers rated

themselves below the median baseline scores

Information Collection

in almost all categories. For example, out of a

This unit systematically collects information possible scaled score of 100, they had 68 on

on

leadership, compared with the median

benchmark score of 76. Similarly, they scored

competitors

58 on concrete learning processes (versus the

median benchmark of 74) and 62 on

customers

supportive learning environment (versus the

median of 71). These results revealed to the

economic and social trends

Eutilize managers that integrating systematic

learning practices into their organization

technological trends

would take considerable work. However, the

poorest-scoring measures, such as

This unit frequently compares its

experimentation and time for reflection,

performance with that of

were common to both Eutilize and the

baseline organizations. So Eutilize was not

competitors

unusual in where it needed to improve, just

in how much.

best-in-class organizations

Analysis The portrait that emerged was not

unexpected for a public utility that had long

This unit engages in productive conflict and

enjoyed monopolies in a small number of

debate during discussions.

markets and that only recently had

established units in other geographic areas.

This unit seeks out dissenting views during

discussions.

Eutilize’s scores in the bottom quartile on

openness to new ideas, experimentation,

This unit never revisits well-established

conflict and debate, and information transfer

perspectives during discussions.*

were evidence that changing the company’s

This unit frequently identifies and discusses established culture would be a long haul.

underlying assumptions that might affect key

decisions.

This unit never pays attention to different

Eutilize’s managers also discovered the

views during discussions.*

degree to which their mental models about

their own ways of working were inaccurate.

Education and Training

For example, they learned that many people

Newly hired employees in this unit receive in their firm believed that “analysis” was an

adequate training.

area of strength for Eutilize, but they

interpreted analysis to be merely number

Experienced employees in this unit receive

crunching. The survey results helped them to

understand the term analysis more broadly—

periodic training and training

to think about the degree to which people

updates

test assumptions, engage in productive

debate, and seek out dissenting views. Each

training when switching to a new

of those areas was actually a weakness in the

position

firm. This revelation led Eutilize’s managers

to understand that without a more open

training when new initiatives are

environment buttressed by the right

launched

processes and leadership, the company

In this unit, training is valued. would have difficulty implementing a new

strategy it had just adopted.

In this unit, time is made available for

education and training activities.

Eutilize’s experience illustrates how our

organizational learning tool prompts

Information Transfer

reflective discussion among managers about

This unit has forums for meeting with and their leadership and organizational practices.

learning from

Without concrete data, such reflection can

become abstract and susceptible to

experts from other departments,

idiosyncratic assessments and often

teams, or divisions

emotional disagreements about the current

state of affairs. With the survey data in hand,

experts from outside the

managers had a starting point for discussion,

organization

and participants were able to point to specific

behaviors, practices, or events that might

customers and clients

explain both high and low scores. The results

suppliers also helped Eutilize’s managers to identify

the areas where their firm needed special

This unit regularly shares information with

attention.

networks of experts within the organization.

Given that the survey-based scores derive

This unit regularly shares information with

networks of experts outside the from perceptions, the best use of the data at

organization.

Eutilize was, as it would be at any company,

to initiate conversation and self-reflection,

This unit quickly and accurately

communicates new knowledge to key not to be the sole basis for decision making.

decision makers.

Discussions had to be conducted with a

healthy balance of what scholars call

This unit regularly conducts post-audits and

“advocacy and inquiry.” The communication

after-action reviews.

allowed people the latitude to assert their

Building Block 3: personal observations and preferred

Leadership That Reinforces

suggestions for action, but it also ensured

Learning

that everyone took the time to carefully

My managers invite input from others in consider viewpoints that were not their own.

discussions.

In addition, managers learned the

importance of using concrete examples to

My managers acknowledge their own

limitations with respect to knowledge, illustrate interpretations, to refer to specific

information, or expertise.

practices or processes, and to clarify

observations. Finally, the participants from

My managers ask probing questions.

Eutilize identified specific actions to be

taken. Had they not done so, the discussions

My managers listen attentively.

could have deteriorated into unproductive

My managers encourage multiple points of complaint sessions.

view.

Moving Forward: Four Principles

My managers provide time, resources, and

venues for identifying problems and Our experiences developing, testing, and

organizational challenges.

using this survey have provided us with

several additional insights for managers who

My managers provide time, resources, and

venues for reflecting and improving on past seek to cultivate learning organizations.

performance.

My managers criticize views different from Leadership alone is insufficient.

their own.*

By modeling desired behaviors—open-

minded questioning, thoughtful listening,

* Reverse-scored items

consideration of multiple options, and

acceptance of opposing points of view—

Visit learning.tools.hbr.org for a short

version of this survey and for recommended

leaders are indeed likely to foster greater

lists of learning resources that are tailored to

learning. However, learning-oriented

your results. For the complete interactive

tool, including scoring, go to los.hbs.edu. leadership behaviors alone are not enough.

The cultural and process dimensions of

learning appear to require more explicit,

targeted interventions. We studied dozens of

organizations in depth when developing our survey questions and then used the

instrument with four firms that had diverse sizes, locations, and missions. All four had

higher scores in learning leadership than in concrete learning processes or supportive