SOURCE: Is Yours a Learning Organization - HBR.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.05 HFT - Knowledge Sharing
TOPIC: Organizational Learning
SUMMARY: This article discusses the concept of a learning organization and presents a comprehensive survey instrument to assess learning within an organization.
KEYWORDS: learning organization, organizational learning, assessment, knowledge management
---

KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT

Is Yours a Learning

Organization?

by David A. Garvin, Amy C. Edmondson, and Francesca Gino

FROM THE MARCH 2008 ISSUE

L

eaders may think that getting their organizations to learn is only a matter of

articulating a clear vision, giving employees the right incentives, and providing lots

of training. This assumption is not merely flawed—it’s risky in the face of

intensifying competition, advances in technology, and shifts in customer preferences.

Organizations need to learn more than ever as they confront these mounting forces. Each

company must become a learning organization. The concept is not a new one. It flourished

in the 1990s, stimulated by Peter M. Senge’s The Fifth Discipline and countless other

publications, workshops, and websites. The result was a compelling vision of an

organization made up of employees skilled at creating, acquiring, and transferring

knowledge. These people could help their firms cultivate tolerance, foster open discussion,

and think holistically and systemically. Such learning organizations would be able to adapt

to the unpredictable more quickly than their competitors could.

Unpredictability is very much still with us. However, the ideal of the learning organization

has not yet been realized. Three factors have impeded progress. First, many of the early

discussions about learning organizations were paeans to a better world rather than

concrete prescriptions. They overemphasized the forest and paid little attention to the

trees. As a result, the associated recommendations proved difficult to implement—

managers could not identify the sequence of steps necessary for moving forward. Second,

the concept was aimed at CEOs and senior executives rather than at managers of smaller

departments and units where critical organizational work is done. Those managers had no

way of assessing how their teams’ learning was contributing to the organization as a whole.

Third, standards and tools for assessment were lacking. Without these, companies could

declare victory prematurely or claim progress without delving into the particulars or

comparing themselves accurately with others.

In this article, we address these deficiencies by presenting a comprehensive, concrete

survey instrument for assessing learning within an organization. Built from the ground up,

our tool measures the learning that occurs in a department, office, project, or division—an

organizational unit of any size that has meaningful shared or overlapping work activities.

Our instrument enables your company to compare itself against benchmark scores

gathered from other firms; to make assessments across areas within the organization (how,

for, example, do different groups learn relative to one another?); and to look deeply within

individual units. In each case, the power is in the comparisons, not in the absolute scores.

You may find that an area your organization thought was a strength is actually less robust

than at other organizations. In effect, the tool gives you a broader, more grounded view of

how well your company learns and how adeptly it refines its strategies and processes. Each

organization, and each unit within it, needs that breadth of perspective to accurately

measure its learning against that of its peers.

Building Blocks of the Learning Organization

Organizational research over the past two decades has revealed three broad factors that are

essential for organizational learning and adaptability: a supportive learning environment,

concrete learning processes and practices, and leadership behavior that provides

reinforcement. We refer to these as the building blocks of the learning organization. Each

block and its discrete subcomponents, though vital to the whole, are independent and can

be measured separately. This degree of granular analysis has not been previously available.

Our tool is structured around the three building blocks and allows companies to measure

their learning proficiencies in great detail. As you shall see, organizations do not perform

consistently across the three blocks, nor across the various subcategories and

subcomponents. That fact suggests that different mechanisms are at work in each building-

block area and that improving performance in each is likely to require distinct supporting

activities. Companies, and units within them, will need to address their particular

strengths and weaknesses to equip themselves for long-term learning. Because all three

building blocks are generic enough for managers and firms of all types to assess, our tool

permits organizations and units to slice and dice the data in ways that are uniquely useful

to them. They can develop profiles of their distinctive approaches to learning and then

compare themselves with a benchmark group of respondents. To reveal the value of all

these comparisons, let’s look in depth at each of the building blocks of a learning

organization.

Building Block 1: A supportive learning environment.

An environment that supports learning has four distinguishing characteristics.

Psychological safety.

To learn, employees cannot fear being belittled or marginalized when they disagree with

peers or authority figures, ask naive questions, own up to mistakes, or present a minority

viewpoint. Instead, they must be comfortable expressing their thoughts about the work at

hand.

Appreciation of differences.

Learning occurs when people become aware of opposing ideas. Recognizing the value of

competing functional outlooks and alternative worldviews increases energy and

motivation, sparks fresh thinking, and prevents lethargy and drift.

Openness to new ideas.

Learning is not simply about correcting mistakes and solving problems. It is also about

crafting novel approaches. Employees should be encouraged to take risks and explore the

untested and unknown.

Time for reflection.

All too many managers are judged by the sheer number of hours they work and the tasks

they accomplish. When people are too busy or overstressed by deadlines and scheduling

pressures, however, their ability to think analytically and creatively is compromised. They

become less able to diagnose problems and learn from their experiences. Supportive

learning environments allow time for a pause in the action and encourage thoughtful

review of the organization’s processes.

Supportive learning environments allow

time for a pause in the action and

encourage thoughtful review of the

organization’s processes.

To change a culture of blame and silence about errors at Children’s Hospitals and Clinics of

Minnesota, COO Julie Morath instituted a new policy of “blameless reporting” that