SOURCE: Jack Quotes.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Leadership
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges and responsibilities of being a CEO, emphasizing the importance of integrity, social responsibility, and setting the tone for the organization.
KEYWORDS: CEO, Integrity, Social Responsibility, Organizational Culture, Business Leadership
---

leaders say that no paper is allowed in their office. It was a great mind-set shift for the

entire organization.

Being a CEO is the nuts! A whole jumble of thoughts come to mind: Over the top. Wild.

Fun. Outrageous. Crazy. Passion. Perpetual motion. The give-and-take. Meetings into

the night. Incredible friendships. Fine Wine. Celebrations. Great golf courses. Big

decisions in the real game. Crises and pressure. Lots of swings. A few home runs.

The thrill of winning. The pain of losing.

It's as good as it gets! You get paid a lot, but the real payoff is in the fun.

Like any job, though, it has its pluses and minuses-but the good sure overwhelms the

bad. The schedule is packed, with many hours blocked out a year in advance, yet every

day manages to bring new crises that butcher your calendar. The days are crazy long,

yet the hours race by because you’re always fighting for more time. The job never

leaves you no matter what you're doing-what’s on your mind is always so absorbing.

Since | was presumptuous enough to write this book, I'll take a shot at sharing some

ideas that worked for me. | hope some might be helpful. Pick and choose among them,

or just toss them all.

Integrity

The simple answer is: By maintaining integrity. Establishing it and never wavering from

it supported everything | did through good and bad times. People may not have agreed

with me on every issue-and | may not have been right all the time-but they always knew

they were getting it straight and honest. It helped to build better relationships with

customers, suppliers, analysts, competitors, and governments. It set the tone in the

organization.

| never had two agendas. There was only one way-the straight way.

The Corporation and the Community

| believe social responsibility begins with a strong, competitive company. Only a healthy

enterprise can improve and enrich the lives of people and their communities.

When a company is strong, it not only pays taxes that provide for important services. It

also builds world-class facilities that meet or exceed safety and environmental

standards. Strong companies reinvest in their people and their facilities. Healthy

companies provide good and secure jobs that give their employment the time, the spirit,

and the resources to give back to their communities a thousand-fold.

That's why CEO's primary social responsibility is to assure the financial success of the

company. Only a healthy, winning company has the resources and the capability to do

the right thing.

Setting a Tone

The organization takes its cue from the person on top. | always told our business

leaders their personal intensity determined their organization’s intensity. How hard they

worked and how many people they touched would be emulated thousands of times over.

The CEO sets the tone. Every day, | tried to get into the skin of every person in the

place. | wanted them to feel my presence.

| didn’t want to be a picture in the annual report. | wanted to be someone whom

everyone in GE knew.

Maximizing an Organizations Intellect

Getting every employee’s mind into the game is a huge part of what the CEO job is all

about. Taking everyone’s best ideas and transferring them to others is the secret.

There's nothing more important. | tried to be a sponge, absorbing and questioning every

good idea. The first step is being open to the best of what everyone, everywhere, has to

offer. The second is transferring that learning across the organization. Work-Out drove

boundaryless behaviour and developed the ideas. We rigorously evaluated everyone on

this value to reinforce its importance. Connecting all the meetings (“operating system”)-

from HR to strategy-gave new ideas increased momentum and helped refine them.

People First, Strategy Second

Getting the right people in the right jobs is a lot more important than developing a

strategy. This truth applied to all kinds of businesses. | sat in rooms for years, looking

at promising strategies that never delivered results. We had great plans for ultrasound,

but we could never make them happen until we found the perfect person with ultrasound

in his veins. We had service strategies in aircraft.

We learned the hard way that we could have the greatest strategies in the world.

Without the right leaders developing and owning them, we'd get good-looking

presentations and so-so results.

informality

Bureaucracy strangles. Informality liberates. Creating an informal atmosphere is a

competitive advantage. Bureaucracy can be the ultimate insulator. Informality isn’t

about first names, unassigned parking spaces, or casual clothing. It's so much deeper.

It's about making sure everybody counts-and everybody knows they count. Titles don’t

matter. There aren't epaulets on shoulders, or stiffs in corner offices making all the

calls-just a wide-open spirit where everyone feels they can let it rip. “Covering your ass”

is ridiculed. Passion, chemistry, and idea flow from any level at any place are what

matter. Everybody's welcome and expected to go at it.

Self-Confidence

Arrogance is a killer, and wearing ambition on one’s sleeve can have the same effect.

There is a fine line between arrogance and self-confidence. Legitimate self-confidence

is a winner. The true test of self-confidence is the courage to be open-to welcome

change and new ideas regardless of their source. Self-confident people aren't afraid to

have their views challenged. They relish the intellectual combat that enriches ideas.

They determine the ultimate openness of an organization and its ability to learn. How do

you find them? By seeking out people who are comfortable in their own skin-people who

like who they are and are never afraid to show it.

Don't ever compromise “being you” for any damn job in any institution.

Passion

For me, intensity covers a lot of sins. If there’s one characteristic all winners share, it’s

that they care more than anyone else. No detail is too small to sweat or too large to

dream. Over the years, I’ve always looked for this characteristic in the leaders we