SOURCE: Jack Quotes.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Transformation
SUMMARY: The text discusses GE's work-out program, boundaryless company concept, and Jack Welch's personal involvement in driving organizational changes.
KEYWORDS: Work-Out, Boundaryless Company, Organizational Change, Idea Generation, Leadership
---

ideas.

Work-Out confirmed what we already knew, that the people closest to the work know it

best. Almost every good thing that has happened in the company can be traced to the

liberation of some business, some team, or an individual. Work-Out liberated many of

them. From a simple idea hatched a Crotonville, Work-Out helped us to create a culture

where everyone began playing a part, where everyone’s ideas began to count, and

where leaders led rather than controlled. They coached-rather than preached-and they

got better results.

| called boundaryless the idea that “will make the difference between GE and the rest of

world business in 1990s.” (| was not bashful about this vision.) The boundaryless

company | saw would remove all the barriers among the functions: engineering,

manufacturing, marketing, and the rest. It would recognize no distinctions between

“domestic” and “foreign” operations. It meant we'd be as comfortable doing business in

Budapest and Seoul as we were in Louisville and Schenectady.

A boundaryless company would knock down external walls, making suppliers and

customers part of a single process. It would eliminate the less visible walls of race and

gender. It would put the team ahead of individual ego.

Boundaryless would make heroes out of people who recognized and developed a good

idea, not just those who came up with one. As a result, leaders were encouraged to

share the credit for ideas with their teams rather than take full credit themselves. It

made a huge difference in how we all related to one another.

Like all companies, we always had a series of planned meetings and reviews throughout

the year. What boundaryless did was link the meetings to create an operating system

that was built on continuous idea flow.

New employees often comment that what makes GE different is the steady drumbeat of

reinforcing cored ideas, meeting, after meeting, after meeting.

Stock options got us a start. An operating system connected the dots, creating a

learning cycle out of what otherwise would have been a series of routine meetings. An

HR evaluation on boundaryless got everyone focused on idea sharing. A corporate

initiatives group accelerated these changes.

Every time we got an idea, we flogged it. Some we paraded out too early. A couple

didn’t pan out. But when we saw an idea we liked, it went on stage at Boca. |

sometimes fell in love too fast. But if the ideas weren’t working, | could fall out of love

just as fast.

One of my favourite perks was picking out an issue and doing what | called a “deep

dive”. It's spotting a challenge where you think you can make a difference-one that

looks like it would be fun-and then throwing the weight of your position behind it. Some

might justifiably call it “meddling.”

Over the years, | did hundreds of these “deep dives”. They weren't always successful,

and many of my ideas were never adopted. For me, the satisfaction and fun was getting

in there and mixing it up, creating excitement and debate over the direction a project

should take.

Aside from my title, | think | “got away with it” because people felt | was trying to help.

We always had a common goal, if not a common way, to get there. They knew that |

didn't hold any hard feelings if my ideas got tossed in the basked. (Editor's Note: The

hell you didn’t!)

“Too slow, too French, move faster or else.” Marc would stuff these replies in his desk

drawer.

Other times, I’d send notes, congratulating him for making progress. Marc would post

these in the plan for everyone to see (opposite page).

There are different amounts of it for different levels of performance, but everyone's life

raft is tied to the same boat. One culture, one set of values, one currency, doesn’t

mean, however, one style-every GE business has its own personality.

During the difficult negotiations for this deal, the head of Harrods had a demanding and

unusual negotiating style. When he didn’t like the way things were going, he’d leave the

room and tell the guys he'd be back in five minutes and wanted a better answer. After

the tenth time he pulled the ploy, Nissen and his team made up cards with big block

letters that spelled "SCREW YOU.”

When the head of Harrods came back into the room, the guys held up the letters. He

got a kick out of it, and the humor took a lot of the tension out of the negotiations. They

soon closed the deal.

Too many people in this room are living in the past. There are too many staff people

living of the entertainment gravy train, and that train is not going to run forever. You

must take charge of your destiny. If you don’t, Bob will.”

For the A players, this could be a real opportunity.

“For the turkeys,” | said, “it will be marginal at best.”

Less than 20 percent liked what | had to say. The rest thought | ought to be arrested or

committed.

Every day at GE, it was integrity. It was out No. 1 value. Nothing came before it. We

never had a corporate meeting where | didn’t emphasize integrity in my closing remarks.

It sent a clear message through the company: Sergeants weren't going to be shot while

generals and colonels could continue on as if nothing happened. We wanted out

managers to know that if any integrity violation occurred on their watch, it was their

responsibility. That chiefs got shot for being indifferent to integrity was a huge event in

GE.

“They see no conflict between taking on the world’s best, every day, all over the globe,

giving 110 percent and more-to compete and win and grow-and at the same time

maintaining an instinctive, unbendable commitment to absolute integrity in everything we

do.”

Nothing is more important than a company’s integrity. It is the first and most important