SOURCE: Jack Quotes.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Transformation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges and strategies involved in transforming a business, including tough decisions, balancing short-term and long-term goals, and managing people and operations.
KEYWORDS: business transformation, strategic decision-making, organizational change, people management, growth strategy
---

tough. Inwardly, I still had plenty of insecurities. Whenever | had to get up in front of

people, | struggled with my speech impediment. | fussed with a comb-over to disguise

my receding hair line. And when someone asked me how tall | was, | had myself

believing that | was at least and inch and half taller than the five feet eight | reaily was.

(Today, in a company six times as large, we have roughly 25 percent more vice

presidents. We have fewer managers, and most now average 15 direct reports, not

seven, with in most cases fewer than six layers between the shop floor and the CEO.)

The clarity of No. 1 or No. 2 came from a pair of very tough questions Drucker posed: "If

you weren’t already in the business, would you enter it today?” And if the answer is no,

“What are you going to do about it?”

Changing the game, getting out of low-margin, low-growth businesses and moving into

high-margin, high-growth global businesses,

The No. 1 or No. 2 “fix, sell, or close” strategy passed the simplicity test. People

discussed it and understood it, and most agreed to it intellectually. When it came time to

implement it, the emotional connection was more difficult for people to make.

Like every goal and initiative we’ve ever launched, | repeated the No. 1 or No. 2

message over and over again until | nearly gagged on the words. | tried to sell both the

intellectual and emotional cases for doing it. The organization had to see every

management action aligned with the vision.

Spending millions on buildings that made nothing, while closing down uncompetitive

factories that produced goods.

You couldn't hire and retain the best people, and at the same time become the lowers-

cost provider of goods and services, without doing both.

Paying the highest wages, while having the lowest wage costs. We had to get the best

people in the world and had to pay them that way. But we couldn't carry along people

we didn’t need. We needed to have better people if we were to get more productivity

from fewer of them.

Managing long-term, while “eating” short-term.

Dreaming about the future and not delivering in the short term is the easiest of all. The

test of a leader is balancing the two.

Needing to be “hard” in order to be “soft”

Making tough-minded decisions about people and plants is a prerequisite to earning the

right to talk about soft values, like “excellence” or “the learning organization.”

Any organization that thinks it can guarantee job security is going down a dead end.

Only satisfied customers can give people job security. Not companies.

Removing people will always be the hardest decision a leader faces. Anyone who

“enjoys doing it” shouldn't be on the payroll, and neither should anyone who “can't do it”

To me, every action had to pass a simple screen: “Would we like to be treated that

way? Were we fair and equitable? Can you look at yourself in the mirror every day and

say yes to those questions?”

The ironic thing was that | didn’t go far enough or move fast enough. When MBAs at the

Harvard Business School in the mid 1980s asked me what | regretted most in my first

years as CEO, | said, “I took too long to act.”

Today the CFOs of all of GEs businesses see their jobs as COOs — and not controllers.

In the 14 years that Dennis served as chief financial officer, until becoming a vice

chairman of GE in 1998, he transformed an audit-driven finance organization into the

best school for business leadership. Three of his former audit staff heads have become

huge stars at GE: John Rice at power and Dave Calhoun at aircraft engines are now

CEOs of our two largest single businesses. Jay Ireland became CEO of the NBC station

group.

Finding great people happens in all kinds of ways, and I’ve always believed “Everyone

you meet is another interview.”

In a company with over 300,000 employees and 4,000 senior managers, we need more

than just touchy-feely good intentions. There has to be a structure and logic so that

every employee knows the rules of the game. The heart of this process is the human

resource cycle: the April full-day Session C, held at every major business location; the

July two-hour videoconference Session C follow-up; and the November Session C-lls,

which confirm and finalize the actions committed to in April.

We build great people, who then build great products and services.

No matter what we put in our books ~ and we put everything in them — it’s not simply the

binders that count. What counts is the passion and intensity everyone brings to the

table. When managers put their necks on the line for their direct reports, you learn as

much about them as the people you’re discussing.

We eventually found one we really liked. We called it the vitality curve (opposite).

They had to identify the people in their organizations that they consider in the top 20

percent, the vital middle 70, and finally the bottom 10 percent.

Making these judgments is not easy, and they are not always precise. Yes, you'll miss a

few stars and a few late bloomers.

This is how great organizations are built. Year after year, differentiation raises the bar

higher and higher and increases the overall caliber of the organization. This is a

dynamic process and no one is assured of staying in the top group forever. They have

to constantly demonstrate that they deserve to be there.

Differentiation comes down to sorting out the A, B, and C players. The As are people

who are filled with passion, committed to making things happen, open to ideas from

anywhere, and blessed with lots of runway ahead of them. They have the ability to

energize not only themselves, but everyone who comes in contact with them. They