SOURCE: Jack Quotes.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership and Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses key principles of effective leadership and management, including the importance of people, building confidence, and treating individuals differently.
KEYWORDS: leadership, management, people management, confidence building, differentiation
---

Jack — Quotes

It is a job that’s close to 75 percent about people and 25 percent about other stuff.

Where people dare to try new things — where people feel assured in knowing that only

the limits of their creativity and drive, their own standards of personal excellence, will be

the ceiling on how far and how fast they move.

ve put my mind, my heart, and my gut into that journey every day of the 40-plus years

l've been lucky enough to be part of GE.

And many of my basic management beliefs — things like competing hard to win, facing

reality, motivating people by alternately hugging and kicking them, setting stretch goals,

and relentlessly following up on people to make sure things get done.

Confidence gives you courage and extends your reach. It lets you take greater risks and

achieve far more than you ever though possible. Building self-confidence in others is a

huge part of leadership. It comes from providing opportunities and challenges for people

to do things they never imagined they could do — rewarding them after each success in

every way possible.

You build strong teams by treating individuals differently. Just look at the way baseball

teams pay 20-game winning pitchers and 40-plus home run hitters. The relative

contributions of those players are easy to measure — their stats jump out at you — yet

they are still part of a team.

Everybody's got to feel they have a stake in the game. But that doesn’t mean everyone

on the team has to be treated the same way.

Winning teams come from differentiation, rewarding the best and removing the weakest,

always fighting to raise the bar.

When people make mistakes, the last thing they need is discipline. It’s time for

encouragement and confidence building. The job at this point is to restore self-

confidence. | think “piling on” when someone is down is one of the worst things any of

us can do.

Piling on during a weak moment can force people into what | call the “GE Vortex.” You

see the “Vortex” when leaders lose their confidence, begin to panic, and spiral

downward into a hole of self-doubt.

Of course, arrogant people who refuse to learn from their mistakes have to go. If we're

managing good people who are clearly eating themselves up over an error, our job is to

help them through it.

If | learned anything about making this easier, it's seeing to it that no one should ever be

surprised when they are asked to leave. By the time | met with managers | was about to

replace, | would have had at least two or three conversations to express my

disappointment and to give them the chance to turn things around. ! would follow up

every business review with a handwritten note.

| realized — more than ever before —- how much my success would depend on the people

I hired. From my first days in plastics, | understood the importance of getting the right

people. it was clear that when | found someone great, it made all the difference in the

world.

| learned a lot of this the hard way — by making some big mistakes. The inconsistency of

my first hires was laughable. One of my most common errors was to hire on

appearances.

In the hands of the inexperienced, resumes are dangerous weapons.

Eventually, | learned that | was really looking for people who were filled with passion and

a desire to get things done. A resume didn’t tell me much about that inner hunger. | had

to “feel” it.

My HR partner, Ralph Hubregsen, and | began going out to the businesses, spending a

full day in a room first with the general manager and his HR executive and then with all

his direct reports. After 10 or 12 hours of heated discussion, I'd come away with a pretty

good sense of talent we had at the top two or three levels of the business.

The reaction was total shock. No one was used to these intense personal discussions

about the strengths and weaknesses of every individual on their team.

There is probably nothing worse in business than to work for a boss who doesn’t want

you to win. This can happen anywhere, at any level — and probably occurs more often

than we think.

| survived the experience only by doing what | thought was right. | trusted Reg and the

system to be fair.

“While | have and will continue to demand that people attain high performance

standards, | have at the same time provided numerous ‘leapfrog’ opportunities to

promising employees and have helped create an atmosphere which attracts talented

and ambitious men and women.”

One line | liked summed up what | though about leadership: “The people with whom |

have been associated have worked harder, enjoyed it more, although not always initially,

and in the end, gained increased self-respect and self-confidence from accomplishing

more than they previously thought possible.”

| was selling “runway” ~ the capacity to grow, something I’ve always looked for in every

appointment | have made. | always bet on runway. | felt it was a good bet to put people

in stretch jobs early in their careers. Fare more often than not, they brought a lot more

excitement and passion to the job and achieved a greater personal growth for

themselves.

Despite all the experiences that had gotten me this far, | wasn’t nearly as sure of myself

as | pretended to be. Outwardly, | had pretty good dose of self-confidence, and those

who knew me would have described me as self-assured, cocky, decisive, quick, and

tough. Inwardly, I still had plenty of insecurities. Whenever | had to get up in front of

people, | struggled with my speech impediment. | fussed with a comb-over to disguise

my receding hair line. And when someone asked me how tall | was, | had myself