SOURCE: Jack Quotes.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Management and Outsourcing
SUMMARY: The text discusses the benefits of outsourcing, focusing on speed and agility, and the importance of breaking down hierarchies and empowering employees.
KEYWORDS: outsourcing, agility, hierarchy, employee empowerment, decision-making
---

for a night, wallowing some more. From wallowing came some of our best decisions.

It was all about breaking down the concept of hierarchy. Everyone knew they were

equal partners on the table, where their ideas could be thrown out with informality and

candor.

Your Back Room Is Somebody Else’s Front Room

Peter Drucker gets credit for this one. We practiced it.

Don’t own a cafeteria: Let a food company do it. Don’t run a print shop: Let a printing

company do that. It's understanding where you real value added is and putting your

best people and resources behind that.

Back rooms by definition will never be able to attract your best. We converted ours into

someone else's front room and insisted on getting their best. That worked for us so

many times. This is what outsourcing is all about.

Speed

| learned in a hundred ways that | rarely regretted acting but often regretted not acting

fast enough. | could scarcely remember a time when | said, “I wish I'd taken six more

months to study something before making a decision.”

I think acting decisively on people, plants, and investments was one of the reasons | got

out of the pile very early at GE. Yet 40 years later when I retired, one my great regrets

was that I didn’t act fast enough on many occasions. When | asked myself, How many

times should | have held off on a decision? Versus How many times do | wish I’d made

that move faster?, | inevitably found that the latter won almost every time.

Forget the Zeros

The entrepreneurial benefits of being small-agility, speed, and ease of communication-

are often lost in a big company. Plastics taught me the value of being small, of “feeling

like you owned it.” | came to the CEO job knowing that isolating small projects and

keeping them out of the mainstream was the way to grow.

We've had many great successes by breaking these projects out-and focusing on them-

as separate, smaller businesses in larger entities.

The smaller ventures got high visibility and created heroes, celebrating both those who

won and those who missed and driving home the value of taking risks.

A list of the stuff an “ideal CEO” should have.

The specs were filled with skills and characteristics you'd want:  integrity/values,

experience, vision, leadership, edge, stature, fairness, and energy/balance/courage.

Chuck's list included such attributes as having an “insatiable appetite for increasing

knowledge” and demonstrating “courageous advocacy.” | tossed in a couple of things |

wanted, like being “comfortable operating under a microscope” and having the “stomach

to play for high stakes.”

Eight basic objectives

Pick the strongest leader

Look for the best complementary mix of corporate executive officer skills

Retain all contenders through transition and into the next administration

Minimize dysfunctional competition

Create opportunities for up close and personal view of the contenders before

the final decision

ARONS

6. Provide the necessary transition time given the company’s breadth and

complexity

7. Anticipate back-fill requirements for concurrent selection announcements

8. Keep options open as long as possible, consistent with the fourth and fifth

objectives

| believe the GE I’m leaving is a true meritocracy, a place filled with involved and excited

people, with good values and high integrity.

I's a company that lives for great ideas, a place where the people do get up every

morning searching for a better way.

Our passion to learn and share new ideas was facilitated by an operating system that

allowed diverse businesses to grow faster and perform better than they would if they

were on their own.

Great people, not great strategies, are what made it all work. We spent an extraordinary

time recruiting, training, developing, and rewarding the best. Our reach and our success

would have been limited without the best people stretching to become better.

There are companies in China today you’ve never heard of that will emerge as

competitive giants in the next decade, threatening your very existence.

China is a lot more than a market. It is rapidly becoming a massive competitor.

Hierarchy is dead. The organization of the future will be virtually layerless and

increasingly boundaryless, a series of information networks in which more electrons and

few people will manage processes. Information will become transparent. No leader will

be able to hoard the facts that once made the corner office so powerful.

Most of the information a manager will need to run a business will reside on a computer

screen in a “digital cockpit’. It will contain every piece of real-time data, with automatic

alters spotlighting trends requiring immediate attention.

While information will be available as never before, it will always be human judgment

that will make the organization go.

It takes self-confidence, courage, and a willingness to take the heat when you make the

tough calls.