SOURCE: Jack Quotes.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership and Organizational Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses key principles of effective leadership, including passion, stretch, celebrations, aligning rewards with measurements, and differentiation as means to build great organizations.
KEYWORDS: leadership, organizational management, passion, stretch, differentiation
---

Passion

For me, intensity covers a lot of sins. If there’s one characteristic all winners share, it’s

that they care more than anyone else. No detail is too small to sweat or too large to

dream. Over the years, I’ve always looked for this characteristic in the leaders we

selected. It doesn’t mean loud or flamboyant. It's something that comes from deep

inside.

Great organization can ignite passion.

Stretch

Stretch is reaching for more than what you thought possible. I've always used the

annual budget process as the best example of stretch.

In a stretch environment, the same field team is asked to come in with “operating plans”

that reflect their dreams-the highest numbers they think had a shot a: their “stretch.” The

discussion revolves around new directions and growth, energizing stuff.

The team leaves with everyone on both sides of the table having a pretty good

understanding of what the business will do and what they'll try to do. An operating plan

is put together reflecting that reality. The team knows they're going to be measured

against the prior year and relative performance against competitors-not against highly

negotiated internal number. Their stretch target keeps them reaching.

Celebrations

Business has to be fun. For too many people, it’s “just a job.”

| always found celebrations were a great way to energize an organization. From my first

days in plastics, | was always looking for ways to celebrate even the smallest victories.

“Your job is to make sure your team is having fun-while they're being productive.”

Aligning Rewards with Measurements

You have to get this one right.

That's the simplest example of a universal problem: What you measure is what you get-

what you reward is what you get.

Static measurements get stale. Market conditions change, new businesses develop,

new competitors show up. | always pounded home the question “Are we measuring and

rewarding the specific behaviour we want?”

By not aligning measurements and rewards, you often get what you're not looking for.

Differentiation Develops Great Organizations

No one likes to play God and rank people, especially the bottom 10 percent.

Differentiation is as tough an issue as any manager faces. | thought it was my job to talk

about it, to force it every day, to demand it from everyone. From my first days, | thought

it was the key to building a great organization. For us, the vitality curve made

differentiation work. We used it relentlessly to push leaders to continually upgrade their

teams. Year after year, forcing managers to weed out their worst performers was the

best antidote for bureaucracy. Our surveys showed the lower we went in the

organization, the louder the concerns about our weakest performers. The lower-level

executives, more than senior managers, bore the brunt of laggards.

Differentiation is hard. Anybody who finds it easy doesn’t belong in the organization,

and anyone who can't do it falls in the same category.

Owning the People

We always told our business leaders, “You own the businesses. You're renting the

people.”

Our business CEOs knew they would be rewarded for teeing up high potentials. Our

boundaryless culture changed the game from hoarding your best people to sharing your

best.

Giving up the best is not a natural act. Within minutes, we'd be talking about the backup

slate to fill the new hole we created. Wit our bench, the back ups sometimes turned out

better than the starters.

Appraisals All the Time

Appraisals to me were like breathing. In a meritocracy, nothing is more important. | was

giving appraisals all the time-whether | handed out a stock option grant or gave a raise-

or even when I’d bump into someone in the hallway.

| always wanted everyone to know where they stood. Every year, I’d send a handwritten

note with the annual bonus to my direct reports. I'd write two to three pages, outlining

what | was looking for in the coming year. I'd attach to it the prior year’s letter, which |

would mark up in red, to give continuity to the process.

These notes did a couple of things. | had the chance to reflect on each business and

what | thought was important. My direct reports realized that there would be follow-up-

and that | cared a lot. The process was time-consuming, and sometimes late on a

Sunday night, | would wish | hadn't started it, bit it was great discipline for me.

Culture Counts

Setting the culture straight on day one minimizes this. The resisters have to go quickly.

An organization that truly believes in maximizing intellect can’t have multiple cultures.

In our shop, there's only one currency: GE stock with GE values.

Strategy

Business success is less a function of grandiose predictions than it is a result of being

able to respond rapidly to real changes as they occur. That's why strategy has to be

dynamic and anticipatory.

Five simple questions brought strategic thinking to life for me:

- What is the detailed global position of your business and that of your competitors:

market shares, strengths by product line, and by region today?

- What actions have your competitors taken in the past two years that have

changed the competitive landscape?

- What have you done in the last two years to alter that landscape?

- What are you most afraid your competitors might do in the next two years to

change the landscape?

~ What are you going to do in the next two years to leapfrog any of their moves?

Competitors

Two “truths” I’ve learned to challenge over time dealt with competition.

One old chestnut is, “We're losing market share because our competitors are crazy, and

they're giving the product away.” | heard that more than a hundred times in my career.

Usually, it turned out to be BS. The real truth was that competitor had a better cost

position or a strategic rationale for what it did.