SOURCE: Jack Quotes.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Employee Performance Management
SUMMARY: The text outlines a system for identifying and rewarding top performers, while managing underperforming employees in a business organization.
KEYWORDS: employee performance, vitality curve, talent management, leadership, GE leadership model
---

who are filled with passion, committed to making things happen, open to ideas from

anywhere, and blessed with lots of runway ahead of them. They have the ability to

energize not only themselves, but everyone who comes in contact with them. They

make business productive and fun at the same time.

They have what we call “the four Es of GE leadership”: very high energy levels, the

ability to energize others around common goals, the edge to make tough yes-and-no

decisions, and finally, the ability to consistently execute and deliver on their promises.

We actually started with three Es: energy, energize, and edge. So we added the fourth

E ~ execute. That did it.

In my mind, the four Es are connected by one P — passion. It’s this passion, probably

more than anything else, that separates the As from the Bs. The Bs are the heart of the

company and are critical to its operational success. We devote lots of energy toward

improving Bs. We want them to search every day for what they're missing to become

As. The manager’s job is to help them get there.

The C player is someone who can’t get the job done. Cs are likely to enervate rather

than recognize. They procrastinate rather than deliver. You can’t waste time on them,

although we do spend resources on their redeployment elsewhere.

The vitality curve is the dynamic way we sort out As, Bs and Cs, the most important tool

of the Session C. Ranking employees on a 20-70-10 grid forces managers to make

tough decisions.

The vitality curve must be supported by the reward system: salary increases, stock

options, and promotions.

The As should be getting raises that are two to three times the size given to the Bs. Bs

should get solid increases recognizing their contributions every year. Cs must get

nothing.

Losing an A is a sin. Love ‘em, hug ‘em, kiss ‘em, don’t lose them! We conduct

postmortems on every A we lose and hold management accountable for those losses.

This system — like any other — has its flaws. Identifying the As is one of the treats of

managing. Everyone enjoys doing that. Developing and rewarding the valuable keeps

in the middie 70 percent poses little difficulty.

Dealing with the bottom 10 is tougher.

The first time new managers name their weakest players, they do it readily. The second

year, it’s more difficult.

By the third year, it’s war.

By then, the most obvious weak performers have left the team, and many managers

can't bring themselves to put anyone in the C column. They've grown to love everyone

in their team by the third year, if they have 30 people in their management group, they

often can’t identify a single bottom 10 percent player, much less three of them.

This is hard stuff. No leader enjoys making the tough decisions. We constantly faced

severe resistance from even the best people in our organization. I’ve struggled with this

problem myself and have often been guilty of not being rigorous enough.

Some think it’s cruel or brutal to remove the bottom 10 percent of our people. It isn’t.

It's just the opposite. What | think is brutal and “false kindness” is keeping people

around who aren't going to grow and prosper. There’s no cruelty like waiting and telling

people late in their careers that they don’t belong — just when their job options are limited

and they're putting their children through college or paying off big mortgages.

Our vitality curve works because we spent over a decade building a performance culture

with candid feedback at every level. Candor and openness are the foundations of such

a culture.

There weren't enough hours in a day or a year to spend on people. This meant

everything to me. I'd always try to remind managers at every level that they had to

share my passion. While | might be the “big shot” standing in front of them today, they

were in fact the “big shots” to the people in their businesses. They had to transmit the

same energy, commitment, and accountability to their people, to whom Jack Welch

didn’t mean a thing.

Even our biggest and best stars know the rules. As Andy Lack, president of NBC, says,

“Jack and | have been friends for eight years, and our wives see each other all the time.

If | started down a path where | made four incredibly bad decisions, | know he would fire

me. He'd hug me, say he’s sorry and maybe you won't want to go to dinner with me

anymore, but he wouldn't hesitate to get rid of me.”

It's all about performance.

Work-Out was patterned after the traditional New England town meeting. Groups of 40

to 100 employees were invited to share their views on the business and the bureaucracy

that got in their way, particularly approvals, reports, meetings, and measurements.

Work-Out meant just what the words implied: taking unnecessary work out of the

system. Toward this end, we expected every business to hold hundreds of Work-Outs.

This was going to be a massive program.

A typical work-Out lasted two to three days. It started with a presentation by the

manager who might issue a challenge or outline a broad agenda and then leave.

Without the boss present and with a facilitator to grease the discussions, employees

were asked to list problems, debate solutions, and be prepared to sell their ideas when

the boss returned.

The real novelty here was that we insisted managers make on-the-spot decisions on

each proposal. They were expected to give a yes-or-no decision on a least 75% of the

ideas.

Work-Out confirmed what we already knew, that the people closest to the work know it

best. Almost every good thing that has happened in the company can be traced to the

liberation of some business, some team, or an individual. Work-Out liberated many of