SOURCE: Jack Quotes.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies and insights related to business operations, including understanding competitors, focusing on initiatives, and effectively communicating with employees.
KEYWORDS: business strategy, competitor analysis, employee engagement, communication, initiatives
---

they're giving the product away.” | heard that more than a hundred times in my career.

Usually, it turned out to be BS. The real truth was that competitor had a better cost

position or a strategic rationale for what it did.

It took me a while to figure out that | should have been asking, “What was wrong with us,

not them?”

The other beauty goes something like this: A team comes in with a proposal to leapfrog

the current position of its leading competitor. The implicit assumption is the competition

will be sleeping while we're developing the new product. Doesn't usually happen that

way.

Never underestimate the other guy.

The Field

From my first job as an officer in February 1972, | wanted to be out with the people who

really made things happen. I'd spend a least a third of my time with the GE businesses.

| have no idea how much time CEOs should spend in the field. | do know | fought every

day to get my butt out of the office.

| always reminded myself: Headquarters doesn’t make anything or sell anything.

Banging around the field was my best shot at getting some idea about what was really

going on.

Market vs. Mind-Sets

Markets aren’t mature. Sometimes minds are.

Initiatives vs. Tactics

In 20 years, we really had only four initiatives-Globalization, Services, Six Sigma, and E-

Business.

Initiatives live forever. They create fundamental change in a company. They build on

one another. Everything in the GE operating system reinforces them.

On the other hand, a short-term tactical moves are needed to revitalize and energize a

function or company.

Understanding the difference between the fundamental and the quick fix helps an

organization stay focused.

The Communicator

| was an outrageous champion of everything we did-from our early need to face reality

and change the culture to our major initiatives that reshaped the company. Whenever |

had an idea or message | wanted to drive into the organization, | could never say it

enough. | repeated it over and over and over, at every meeting and review, for years,

until | could almost gag on the words.

| always felt | had to be “over the top” to get hundreds of thousands of people behind an

idea.

My behavior was often excessive and perhaps obsessive. | don’t know if that’s the only

way, but it worked for me.

Employee Surveys

We used all kinds of way to get employee feedback: Crotonville, Session Cs, vitality

curves, and stock options. These tools forced management to deal with employees in a

straightforward manner. Making employee surveys meaningful was a big breakthrough

for us in 1994.

We didn’t run the company by polling, but the candor of our employees in these

anonymous on-line surveys really helped us put the right emphasis on the right

initiatives. We showed the results not only to our employees, but also to our board

members and to the security analysts.

Knowing-and confronting-what was on the minds of our employees was a key part of our

success.

Upgrading a Function

Whenever | thought a corporate function wasn’t as strong as it should have been, |

would appoint myself the unofficial head of it. Take sourcing-the process of buying

billions of parts, products, and services.

Once we had highly energized leaders in place, ideas flowed like water downhill to the

rest of the company.

The Advertising Manager

Managing image and company reputation is one of the more obvious jobs of a CEO. |

might have taken it to an extreme.

| never allowed one advertisement on the air that | didn’t like.

Sometimes | drove the agency and our guys nuts with my micromanaging of the

process. | liked playing with the ads, had a strong point of view, and wanted to be proud

of everything GE put on the air.

Image mattered. | was convinced it was my job.

Managing Loose, Managing Tight

Knowing when to meddle and when to let go was a pure gut decision.

A lot of this is pure instinct. | managed tight when | sensed | could make a difference. |

managed loose when | knew | had little if anything to offer.

Consistency was not a requirement here. Sometimes begin an undisciplined, unmade

bed got the job done faster. You pick and you choose your opportunities to make a

difference. | loved to go on the field when | though | could play, and | loved cheering

from the sidelines when | didn’t think | belonged in the game.

Chart Maker

I've always though that chart-making clarified my thinking better than anything else.

Reducing a complex problem to a simple chart excited the hell out of me.

Investor Relations

Wall Street is a big part of the job. We changed who we put into investor relations.

The model changed in the late 1980s when we picked young high-potential financial

managers with a marketing sense. Each one of them became the chief of marketing

officer for GE stock, constantly on the road visiting investors and selling the GE story.

The job went from defensive linebacker to offensive halfback. All those who held the job

got up every morning and felt they were measured by the price of GE stock. Already on

a fast track because of their financial acumen, they used the job to improve their sales

and presentation skills.

Wallowing

“Let's wallow in this” was a phrase | often used. It meant getting people together, often

spontaneously, to wrestle through a complex issue. The sole ticket for admission was

know-how, not titles or positions.

The idea was to get fresh thinking without paper and memos, then sit on the conclusions

for a night, wallowing some more. From wallowing came some of our best decisions.

It was all about breaking down the concept of hierarchy. Everyone knew they were

equal partners on the table, where their ideas could be thrown out with informality and

candor.