SOURCE: Jack Quotes.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Six Sigma Implementation
SUMMARY: The document discusses the implementation of the Six Sigma program, focusing on measuring results, aligning with customer needs, and expanding the program across the organization.
KEYWORDS: Six Sigma, Variation, Measurement, Customer Alignment, Organizational Transformation
---

| thought the short-range financial impact alone would justify the program. Longer-

range, | though | could be even bigger.

A fundamental requirement in our Six Sigma program was that we measured it. We had

a financial analyst certify the results of every project.

| always wanted the rewards systems to make sure we were getting the best people into

every initiative. No one wants to give up their best talent on a full-time basis. They've

got high targets to reach and need their best managers to make them.

It was Piet who came up with the answer to why our customers weren't feeling our Six

Sigma improvements. Piet’s reason was simple: He got all of us to understand that Six

Sigma was about one thing-variation! We had all studied it, including me, in the class

with the paper airplanes. But we never saw it the way Piet laid it out. He made the

connection between averages and variation. It was a breakthrough.

We got away from averages and focused on variation by tightening what we call “span.”

We wanted the customer to get what they wanted when they wanted it. Span measures

the variance, from the exact date the customer wants the product, either days early or

days late. Getting span to zero means the customers always get the products when

they ask for them.

Internally, our problem was that we were measuring improvement based on an average-

a figure that calculated only our manufacturing or services cycle without regard to the

customer. If we reduced product delivery times from an average of 16 days to 8 days,

for example, we saw it as a 50 percent improvement (see opposite).

Today, we take a step further. We measure span from our requested delivery date to

our customers’ first revenue: Every order is tagged with the customer's start-up dates,

and charts tracking the variation are put up in every facility. Visibility is clear to

everyone. Using these measurements makes variation come alive. Customers see and

feel what we do.

Six Sigma is a universal language. Variation and span are as understandable in

Bangkok and Shanghai as they are in Cleveland and Louisville.

We expanded the initiative further by taking it directly to our customers in what we called

“Six Sigma: At the customer, for the customer” (ACFC). By aligning what we measure

internally with our customers’ needs, Six Sigma has given us better customer intimacy

and trust.

We found that Six Sigma isn’t only for engineers. A common misconception made in

quality programs is thinking that it’s only for technical minds. It’s for the best and

brightest in any function.

Plant manager's can use Six Sigma to reduce waste, improve product consistency, solve

equipment problems, or create capacity. Human resources managers need it to reduce

the cycle time for hiring employees.

Regional sales managers can use it to improve forecast reliability, pricing strategies, or

pricing variation. Overall, Six Sigma is changing the fundamental culture of the company

and the way we develop people-especially our “high potentials." We've always had

great functional training programs over the years, particularly in finance. But the

diversity of the company has made it difficult to have a universal training program. Six

Sigma gives us just the tool we need for generic management training since it applies as

much in a customer service centre as it does in a manufacturing environment.

In the dot.com model, expenses increase rapidly to cover the costs of Internet

development, brand advertising, and fulfillment. Loses increase in direct proportion to

those expenses. The breakeven point is uncertain and is almost always revenue

dependent.

In the “big-old-gets-it” category, the only extra expense is for Internet Development. The

big company already has strong brands and the systems to fulfill orders. Quickly, the

cost savings from Internet productivity kick in. There’s a shorter time to break even and

a bigger, more certain payback, and the benefits are generally independent of revenue.

The chart captured GE’s advantages over the dot.coms. We didn’t have to increase

advertising. We had established brands. We didn't have to create fulfillment

organizations or build warehouses to ship goods. Six sigma was in place to improve our

operations. We could use digitization to focus on its main benefit-taking out the low-

value-added work in the guts of the company. Every process can be improved and

productivity increased. The efficiencies from this technology are enormous for big

companies.

We saw the Internet opportunity in three pieces: the buy, the make, and the sell.

He told us, in effect, “You're big, fat, and dumb. You're sitting ducks.”

His outrageous predictions were just what we needed to energize the place. We put

together separate teams, in many cases housed in different buildings, to analyze

potential Internet-based models that could do to us what Amazon.com was trying to do

to bookselling.

It became the poster child for what we called “dot.com dust’-sites that were created to

look pretty but never had a financial reason for existing. We learned that if you couldn't

monetize the screen-either directly with products or indirectly with better service-you

shouldn't have built it.

Our DYB teams were quickly concluding that the Internet presented more opportunities

than threats. We redefined their mission, and they became GYP, or

“growyourbusiness.com” teams. They were no longer separated from the mainstream

business. The digitalization teams were integrated into the existing business models.

Another important lesson came from John Chambers of Cisco. He urged us to shut

down the “parallel paths” of on-line and off-line work-flow processes. Until we did that,

people would still rely on paper and wouldn't really use digitization to drive productivity.

Everyone began to think digitally. Today it's not uncommon to have GE business

leaders say that no paper is allowed in their office. It was a great mind-set shift for the

entire organization.

Being a CEO is the nuts! A whole jumble of thoughts come to mind: Over the top. Wild.

Fun. Outrageous. Crazy. Passion. Perpetual motion. The give-and-take. Meetings into