SOURCE: Jack Quotes.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Corporate Culture and Ethics
SUMMARY: This text emphasizes the importance of integrity, boundaryless behavior, and company-wide initiatives for driving growth and success at GE.
KEYWORDS: integrity, boundaryless behavior, company initiatives, corporate culture, GE
---

giving 110 percent and more-to compete and win and grow-and at the same time

maintaining an instinctive, unbendable commitment to absolute integrity in everything we

do.”

Nothing is more important than a company’s integrity. It is the first and most important

value in any organization. It not only means that people must abide by the letter and

spirit of the law, it also means doing the right thing and fighting for what you believe is

right.

Boundaryless behaviour allows ideas to come from anywhere. We formalize our

freewheeling style in a series of operating meetings that blend one into another.

Its wild, sometimes humorous, and informal. The net effect is powerful. The best

practices and the best people are always moving across the units and driving our

businesses. In effect, boundaryless behaviour has given us a “social architecture” that

thrives on learning.

In the 1990s, we pursued for major initiatives: Globalization, Services, Six Sigma, and

E-Business.

Every initiative started off with the seed of a smaller idea. Once put into the operating

system, it had the chance to grow. Our four have flourished. They've been a huge part

of the accelerated growth we've seen in the past decade.

These are not “flavours of the month.”

At GE, we defined an initiative as something that grabs everyone-large enough, broad

enough, and generic enough to have a major impact on the company. An initiative is

long lasting, and it changes the fundamental nature of the organization. Regardless of

the source, | became the cheerleader. | followed up on all of them with a passion and a

mania that often veered toward the lunatic fringe.

Initiatives come from anywhere and everywhere.

To make the initiatives work, it took a passionate all-consuming commitment from the

top. Beyond the passion, there was a lot of rigor. Not only did we put the best people

on each initiative, we trained them, measured them, and reported their results. In the

end, each initiative had to develop people and improve the bottom line.

The leaders of every business had to be the champion-and timid and rational advocacy

wouldn’t work. They made sure we got our A players to lead every initiative. We made

sure the rewards-salary increases, stock option grants, and role-model recognition at

company meetings-were highly visible.

The organization judges an initiative’s importance by whom they see getting the

leadership assignments. Nowhere was this more important to GE's success than in Six

Sigma. If we didn’t get the best and brightest, it could have been perceived as just

another “quality program.”

There was always a relentless drumbeat of follow-up.

We used the annual employee survey to find out how deep in the organization the

initiatives were taking hold.

We used the survey to help set our direction-and as a BS detector. The survey got right

at questions about the initiatives-whether or not our messages were getting through.

Making initiatives successful is all about focus and passionate commitment. The

drumbeat must be relentless. Every leadership action must demonstrate total

commitment to the initiative.

Those relationships and the deals behind them have endured for more than 25 years

and have thrived even as they have changed. GE may appear big, but is made up of

lots of small pieces. The success of our deals with Nagase and Yokogawa reinforced

the idea that our most successful partnerships are with smaller companies that feel the

project is critical to their operations. Whenever there was an issue to work out, our

people could get to the top-and not have to work through a massive bureaucracy.

Truth is, | didn’t put much focus on the global direction of the company in the first half of

the 1980s. | did eliminate a separate international sector and made the business CEOs

clearly in charge of their own global activities. The international sector had been

something of a hybrid between scorekeeper and helper.

| always believed there was no such thing as a global company: Companies aren't

global-businesses are. I've given that speech a thousand times or more to make clear

that the CEOs of each business were responsible for globalizing their businesses.

Some of our earlier technological upgrades were too sophisticated. Payback times for

customers were measured in three to five years instead of the one to two or less that

they needed to justify their investment. We've fixed that and now focus on rapid

customer payback solutions across every business, whether it’s increasing the life of a

jet engine, improving the power output of a utility plant, ore increasing the throughput of

patients fora CT machine.

Today, we're spending as much time insuring our installed “sockets” are increasingly

productive-as we are on finding new “sockets.”

Nonetheless, Harry's presentation succeeded in capturing our imagination. He had

given us enough practical examples to show there was something to this. Most left the

session that day somewhat frustrated with our lack of statistical comprehension but

excited about the programs possibilities. The discipline from the approach was

particularly appealing to the engineers, but | didn’t have any idea just how much more it

would become. The big myth is that Six Sigma is about quality control and statistics. It

is that-but it's a helluva lot more. Ultimately, it drives leadership to be better by providing

tools to think through tough issues. At Six Sigma’s core is an idea that can turn a

company inside out, focusing the organization outward on the customer.

“We can wait no longer,” | said. “Everyone in this room must lead the quality charge.

There can be no spectators on this. What took Motorola ten years, we must do in five-

not through short cuts, but in learning from others.”

| thought the short-range financial impact alone would justify the program. Longer-

range, | though | could be even bigger.

A fundamental requirement in our Six Sigma program was that we measured it. We had

a financial analyst certify the results of every project.