SOURCE: Jun HFT Pre-Reading - BBRC PE Research Note.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Digital Retail Trends
SUMMARY: The text discusses the rise of live commerce, with home shopping networks, big tech, and social media platforms embracing interactive formats to engage consumers and increase sales.
KEYWORDS: live commerce, social commerce, interactive retail, digital shopping trends, home shopping networks
---

[Document: Jun HFT Pre-Reading - BBRC PE Research Note.pdf]

anecdotes and recommendations make home shopping feel like a social experience.

Home shopping networks have managed to remain relevant by adapting their formats to digital

channels, with 60% of QVC’s sales now occurring online. Meanwhile, big tech is also investing in

home shopping formats. In 2019, Amazon launched a home shopping channel, Amazon Live, which

allows Amazon stockists to create livestreamed content and engage with customers via a live chat

function. Meanwhile, in a significant move towards the social commerce model pioneered by

Chinese networks like WeChat, Facebook recently announced the launch of Facebook Shops, which

will allow brands to include shoppable product tags in live videos on Facebook and Instagram so

viewers can shop within the app during a livestream.

Digital 3.0 | 5

Valentine's Day Gift Shop Live

NOON! Appleberny Lip Oi

0.12 Ounces, Heating Dye Eyuuradow Paes

trelisim NUDE ‘dude

Settetets 105 prime - eteietete 138 serine

? 12.00 7 $34.20

in| :

Amazon Live online shoppable product demonstration (Source: TechCrunch)

Live commerce: embrace it, it’s here to stay

Digital 3.0 has arrived — the question is when, not if, to embrace this new era of retailing.

From the growth in Chinese live commerce to TV home shopping’s second wave, the trends are

clear: buoyed by improvements in video and smartphone technology, consumers see novelty in

engaging with brands in more interactive formats, while retailers see potential for brand-building

and increased conversions.

The lessons from China and TV home shopping not only provide a tech roadmap, but also give us

clues into customer behaviour, what and how to sell and what conversion and cost benchmarks to

track.

In the short term, retailers in western countries will experience some limitations when using current

technologies until mainstream platforms (such as Facebook and Shopify) catch up to the technical

capabilities and extensive integrations of Chinese e-commerce and social networks. Covid-19 has a

provided a catalyst for this progress to accelerate, evidenced by Facebook's recent announcement of

its Facebook Shops live shopping features, which has been heralded as a ‘game changer’ for the

industry.

Digital 3.0 | 6

Do it now: test, learn, execute

Retailers have multiple options available to implement live commerce today:

Various software providers currently offer specialised solutions, such as livestreaming or

virtual appointment software. We have mapped some of the available technologies at

Appendix 1.

As a lower-cost alternative, retailers can use Instagram, Facebook and YouTube to livestream

product launches, demos and customer Q&As in order to increase engagement and educate

their customers. To complement store networks, brands can also use Facetime, Zoom and

Skype to connect customers with sales representatives either 1:1 or in groups. We have

explored some of the ways BBRC’s retail businesses are using these strategies at Appendix 2.

Some retailers have also developed their own native software, like H&M subsidiary brand

Monki, which has produced a proprietary livestreaming app.

Even these basic solutions represent the next phase of innovation in online retail. Instead of waiting

for more sophisticated live commerce technology to launch, retailers can use existing solutions to

test and refine their strategy. Retailers currently have a low-stakes opportunity to learn how live

commerce can form part of their long-term omnichannel mix. As with any new and untested

technology, retailers experimenting with live commerce must be careful to measure and adapt their

chosen approach. Before starting with live commerce, brands should consider:

Purpose and frequency: are you using live commerce for immediate sales, product

launches, branding or customer loyalty? How often will you produce content or run live

events?

What products to feature: in China, products sold on Taobao Live are generally priced

between 200-500 yuan (A$40-110), although each platform attracts different demographics

and luxury brands are now experimenting with higher price points. QVC's average selling

price sits in a similar range at around US$54. While brands can use these indicators as a

starting point, you should analyse viewer demographics, test different price points and track

how consumers respond.

How to measure success: TV home shopping networks use dollars per minute (net sales per

minute of airtime) as a key metric to track the efficacy of live selling sessions. Retailers using

Facebook, Instagram or YouTube for live commerce should also use their analytics tools to

calculate viewer engagement and conversion rates.

Choice of platform and integration with overall omnichannel mix: Which platforms best

suit your customer base? Should the live commerce platform form a part of your website?

Will you be take a multi-platform approach (Youtube, Facebook, Instagram, Amazon)?

Software and tech choices: How will you integrate customer data, feedback, service and

payments into the overall experience?

New capabilities, people and assets: even small live commerce experiments require some

upfront investment. Capital considerations include filming and editing equipment, livestream

set design and software. Retailers will also need a presenter (for example, a high-octane

member of their sales team or influencer), videographer and dedicated customer service

team to manage live chat interaction during the livestream. Retailers should track these costs

against new customer acquisition and conversions to calculate a total return on investment.

Digital 3.0 | 7

Closing remarks

Like all innovations in retail, it will ultimately depend on each brand to develop and execute their

own winning formula. As we saw with earlier innovations in retailing, live commerce may help

retailers promote higher-value products that have traditionally been harder to sell online, moving

online retail’s use case further up the value chain. Alternatively, live commerce strategies could be

used for marketing, retention and customer service rather than as a primary sales channel. Either

way, live commerce allows retailers to create a powerful link between physical and online channels

and marks the critical next step in omnichannel retail.

Digital 3.0 | 8

Appendix 1: Software and solutions

Key Digital 3.0 software

Live e-commerce

Livestream creation, broadcasting

and viewer interaction

S sociali 5

ont | cncive® | Mil WIEN

‘dropp) Restreaii.ie O% Vueai

MJ Liv=scace > wootag

Livestreaming platforms Shoppable video creation tools

Online shopping enhancements Virtual sales services