SOURCE: Jun HFT Pre-Reading - BBRC PE Research Note.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Retail Trends and Live Commerce
SUMMARY: The COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated the shift to digital retail, leading to the rise of live commerce through livestreaming, shoppable video, and virtual sales consultations.
KEYWORDS: live commerce, digital retail, consumer behavior, omnichannel retail, COVID-19 impact
---

[Document: Jun HFT Pre-Reading - BBRC PE Research Note.pdf]

BeBe rC

PRIVATE EQUITY

‘Live commerce’ has arrived

Lucy Bradshaw and Joseph Kim, May 2020

The ‘Great Lockdown’ of 2020 resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic has shone a bright light on

retail consumer behaviour trends, with the most obvious change being the seismic shift from

physical to digital retailing. As consumers isolate at home during the lockdown period, live

commerce has suddenly captured wider scale adoption through livestreaming, shoppable video and

virtual sales consultations. We have explored live commerce’s growing capability and penetration in

China and have observed recent technology advancements, which collectively lay the platform for

imminent wider-scale adoption. Innovative retailers are learning quickly and early evidence indicates

explosive growth in average transaction values and conversion rates, suggesting these sales methods

have the potential to reshape the way retailers acquire, convert and retain customers well beyond

the pandemic as part of their overall customer offer.

Digital 3.0 in the context of retail’s evolution

The retail industry has experienced a series of disruptions over the last two centuries, culminating in

the internet's arrival in the mid-1990s. The table below tracks the evolution of online retail up until

the phase we call ‘Digital 3.0’:

Post-internet

Digital 2.0 Digital 2.5

2005-2010 2010-2020

(| el

imton Online multi-category Digitally native

department stores + D2C retailers led by

D2C specialist retailers digital natives

Omnichannel (digital +

P Digital Omnichannel digital + live commerce)

Merete peste Physical (digital + physical) Tech-enhanced

physical store

Faster internet / 5G

Smartphone Social media 2.0

Enabling Internet Social media 1.0 (advertising) (product + experience)

technology Home computer E-commerce platforms Video + Augmented /

(Shopify, Magento) Virtual Reality

D2C category specialists Us

amazon WARBY PARKER | Glossier.

Mules BONOBOS Zappos") Casper allbinds ,

Examples Multi-category : ‘

Australia

ebay kogan| showpe. ide.

THE ICONIC

This paper focuses on live commerce, which forms a key component of Digital 3.0. For a longer

discussion of retail history which puts this innovation into context, see Appendix 3.

State of play pre-Covid-19

When Covid-19 arrived, online retail was at a vulnerable stage in its evolution.

e Crowded marketplace: the online retail market had become increasingly crowded. Plug-

and-play e-commerce platforms and sophisticated digital marketing tools made barriers to

entry lower than ever, giving rise to new online players in almost every consumer category.

e Venture capital: a large number of digitally native, direct-to-consumer brands raised VC

money at ‘tech’ valuations with enormous ambitions, despite often generating minimal or

negative profits. Indeed, some of these retailers failed before Covid-19 (like Softbank-backed

Brandless). The primary feature of these failed brands was their inability to lower customer

acquisition costs and achieve customer loyalty as they scaled. Backed by tech investors

seeking rapid growth, some have suffered an identity crisis. By over-emphasising technology

and brand, they failed to achieve a product-market fit that was able to produce profitable

margins.

e Higher marketing and customer acquisition costs: this heightened competition drove up

digital marketing costs (ad spend by direct-to-consumer brands grew 50% in 2019) and

reduced customer retention for incumbents.

¢ Digital natives going into “traditional” channels: in order to survive in a challenging

market, digitally native, direct-to-consumer brands started moving into physical stores and

wholesale channels to broaden their revenue base and reduce customer acquisition costs.

Online to offline: which D2C brands have changed their online-only strategy?

Opened physical Started selling through Use TV, print and

stores wholesale channels out-of-home advertising

EVERLANE Casper Outdoor Casper ”) PELOTON Casper

Outdoor LIVELY

Andie

Glossier. HARRY’S Quip & DOLLAR SHAVE CLUB

O sores albirals | smile BARK-BOX | smile grinovove

recy NAADAM reer” Modibodi®

brooklinen warsy PARKER

Post Covid-19: the rise of live commerce

Against this backdrop, Covid-19 has created an interesting set of circumstances for online retailers.

Brands forced to close stores now need to find other ways to provide ‘in-store’ experiences and keep

their customers engaged — but this must be done cheaply, in order to preserve cash. Customers are

turning to online shopping as entertainment during lockdowns, although the economic

consequences of the pandemic have made some shoppers more price sensitive, requiring brands to

Digital 3.0 | 2

sell harder through discounting or better communications. Meanwhile, digital marketing costs have

fallen, making it cheaper to communicate with and acquire customers online.

Retailers have turned to a range of virtual selling strategies to address these circumstances. Tactics

like livestreamed product demonstrations, online sales consultations and virtual showrooms have

offered low-cost methods of building a direct communication line with customers, mimicking in-

store shopping experiences and marketing products more effectively during the pandemic. Views of

Instagram livestreams were up 70% year-on-year in April 2020 and virtual consultation software

providers like Hero and Joor are experiencing significant growth in users.

Despite their relative novelty, these virtual sales tactics aren't new. They've been popular for several

years in China, where they appear in three main formats:

e Livestream e-commerce: influencer or brand-led livestreamed events used to demonstrate

and sell products. Free giveaways, games and exclusive promotions are often used to create

a sense of urgency among viewers.

e ‘See Now, Buy Now’ shows: fashion shows and product launches with e-commerce

integration, allowing viewers to shop directly from the catwalk.

e Video concierge: 1:1 virtual shopping experiences with sales assistants who demonstrate

and try on products for customers.

Live commerce — a new sales channel?

Live commerce sales strategies sit in between physical retail and e-commerce. Like physical retail,

they rely on sales assistants to provide an interactive experience, and livestreamed events and virtual

shopping consultations often take place in stores. However, like e-commerce, the shopping process

and sales transaction occur online. Live commerce may effectively become a third channel for retail

sales — it occurs neither entirely online nor offline, but combines elements of both to offer an

alternative path to purchase.

In order to understand why live commerce is so powerful and how this evolution might unfold and

be executed, we've extracted lessons from different ends of the retail spectrum: Chinese

livestreaming and TV home shopping.