SOURCE: Jun HFT Pre-Reading - BBRC PE Research Note.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Live Commerce and Omnichannel Retail
SUMMARY: The text discusses how live commerce allows retailers to create a powerful link between physical and online channels, marking the critical next step in omnichannel retail.
KEYWORDS: live commerce, omnichannel retail, digital 3.0
---

[Document: Jun HFT Pre-Reading - BBRC PE Research Note.pdf]

used for marketing, retention and customer service rather than as a primary sales channel. Either

way, live commerce allows retailers to create a powerful link between physical and online channels

and marks the critical next step in omnichannel retail.

Digital 3.0 | 8

Appendix 1: Software and solutions

Key Digital 3.0 software

Live e-commerce

Livestream creation, broadcasting

and viewer interaction

S sociali 5

ont | cncive® | Mil WIEN

‘dropp) Restreaii.ie O% Vueai

MJ Liv=scace > wootag

Livestreaming platforms Shoppable video creation tools

Online shopping enhancements Virtual sales services

Virtual showrooms AR try-on technology B2c B2B

MODIFACE ST

()p406 mrasrenrrs LAM" | Hero’ | ORDRE

TRYON

> 3pvist PLATTAR JOOR

S 3DVista 5 Vvki c e9) Instore NuORDER

© VYKING wannasy

© BYONDXR

PERFECT

Hardware and setup

Film equipment Set

* Camera equipment (including camera, lenses and e Mock store located in warehouse or support office

mixers) (cameras may need to be supported by (can be used for virtual showroom tours, 1:1 virtual

video interfacing software like OBS Studio) consultations or livestream set)

e® Microphones e Purpose-built livestream set (e.g. casual living

room/dressing room setup; outdoor area for

Lighti .

© Dein demonstration of sports products)

e For livestreaming, dedicated computers, tablets

and/or monitors to track incoming comments

Digital 3.0 | 9

Appendix 2: BBRC business profiles

Plant Therapy - the importance of the influencer

Plant Therapy has broadcast livestreamed videos from their support office in Twin Falls, Idaho for the

past four years. Their format relies on the following features:

Consistent format: Plant Therapy's shows go live three times per week with consistent

themes (currently Monday Mingle, Wellness Wednesday and Fantastic Friday). Livestreams

can last between 20-60 minutes depending on the format and number of viewer questions

received. Livestreams are hosted by Plant Therapy's VP of Customer Experience, Retha

Nesmith, who typically opens by sampling products, demonstrating a recipe, presenting a

special deal or interviewing a guest. Livestreams often conclude with a free giveaway. The

content and featured products are planned up to three months in advance by Plant Therapy's

content team.

Simulcast on three platforms: shows are broadcast simultaneously across YouTube,

Facebook and Instagram. YouTube and Facebook integrate with Plant Therapy’s live

broadcasting software Restream. Instagram does not integrate with Restream and is shown in

a horizontal format (unlike Facebook and YouTube, which are vertical), so the Instagram

livestream is filmed separately on an iPad. Viewers can post questions and comments for

Plant Therapy on each of the three platforms. On average, around 500 viewers join the

livestream across the three platforms, with each video receiving around 10,000 views in total

over the course of the following week.

Trusted, well-known presenter: Retha has hosted the majority of Plant Therapy's

livestreams from the outset. Over time, Retha has developed a close relationship with her

audience, greeting regular viewers by name and spending a large portion of each livestream

answering viewers’ questions. Similar to Chinese KOLs and home shopping presenters, her

friendly manner and relaxed, authentic personality have made her a trusted influencer for

Plant Therapy's brand.

Used for engagement, not conversions: Plant Therapy primarily uses livestreaming to

maintain brand loyalty and educate their customers, although they regularly notice increased

sales of products promoted on livestreams. Regular viewers become passionate ambassadors

for the brand, often answering questions and promoting Plant Therapy's products on social

media. Facebook, YouTube and Instagram analytics can be used to track the audience size

and engagement.

Purpose-built studio and dedicated team: Plant Therapy broadcasts from a purpose-built

studio located in its warehouse. The set was designed as a flexible space with removable

backdrops. Each livestream requires a minimum of three people on set, including a presenter

(typically Retha), a videographer and an assistant to film and manage the Instagram feed. A

customer service representative also supports the livestream behind the scenes, by

responding to any viewer questions left unanswered during the program.

Digital 3.0 | 10

Behind the scenes with Plant Therapy: the set contains moveable walls and furniture allowing for

different layouts. Noise-dampening cladding lines the roof. On the right, Katrina uses an iPad to

conduct the Instagram livestream and manage incoming questions from viewers.

~

The final product broadcast on Youtube, with the set shown in a different formation. Note Retha

using a mouse to navigate through viewers’ comments, which also appear on a monitor off-set.