SOURCE: Jun HFT Pre-Reading - BBRC PE Research Note.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Live Commerce and Retail Strategies
SUMMARY: This text analyzes the rise of live commerce in China, highlighting the key success factors such as entertaining content, interactivity, and trusted influencers.
KEYWORDS: live commerce, e-commerce, retail strategies, Chinese market, livestreaming
---

[Document: Jun HFT Pre-Reading - BBRC PE Research Note.pdf]

they rely on sales assistants to provide an interactive experience, and livestreamed events and virtual

shopping consultations often take place in stores. However, like e-commerce, the shopping process

and sales transaction occur online. Live commerce may effectively become a third channel for retail

sales — it occurs neither entirely online nor offline, but combines elements of both to offer an

alternative path to purchase.

In order to understand why live commerce is so powerful and how this evolution might unfold and

be executed, we've extracted lessons from different ends of the retail spectrum: Chinese

livestreaming and TV home shopping.

Lesson 1: Live commerce in China

Digital 3.0 strategies are already well advanced in China, where livestreaming has been an important

trend since Alibaba launched its livestream network Taobao Live in 2016. Livestreaming, which is

used to sell everything from apparel and skincare products to cars, real estate and agricultural

produce, represented 9% of China's total e-commerce sales in 2019, with live commerce revenue

reaching US$61 billion. As Covid-19 hit China, livestreaming platforms saw sharp uptake in usage. In

February 2020 Taobao Live recorded a 719% increase in participating merchants and annual live

commerce revenue is now predicted to more than double to US$135 billion in 2020, suggesting live

commerce is indeed worthy of being treated as a ‘third’ sales channel.

This remarkable sales volume is made possible by the well-established e-commerce and payments

ecosystem available to consumers. Livestream shopping is available on e-commerce platforms like

Taobao, JD.com and Pinduoduo, short-video platforms like Douyin (China’s version of TikTok) and

Digital 3.0 | 3

Kuaishou, and social networking platforms like WeChat and Little Red Book. Each platform has

different features and attracts different users and brands; for example, Little Red Book is known for

its community of affluent urban women and tends to attract luxury retailers.

Chinese live commerce has developed a consistent format relying on four key success factors:

e Entertaining content: livestreams should be highly engaging, which retailers achieve by

featuring fashion shows, competitions, celebrity interviews and education sessions.

e Interactivity: social commerce platforms typically allow viewers to comment and ask

questions during a livestream. This creates a running conversation between the presenter and

viewers, in which the presenter responds to viewers by name while a customer service team

answers audience questions in the background.

e Trusted influencers or brand personalities: the most effective livestreams are run by well-

known influencers (known as key opinion leaders or KOLs) who have developed substantial

consumer trust. Viya — a leading Chinese KOL with over 18 million followers, who famously

helped Kim Kardashian sell 15,000 bottles of perfume in a matter of minutes last year —

reportedly only features products that have been vetted by her 200-person team.

e Seamless transaction experience: livestream e-commerce should also be seamless. In

China, most platforms are integrated with payments providers, allowing shoppers to

complete an order without leaving the app, and incorporate interactive features for users to

ask questions and participate in special promotions.

iva |e

70,157

DAR NaS SHFHRB

HRTVRS: BBE T IU!

AAAAAAbigale: IE

|

PERES: EmBw? E97

B® youngmexe): Ave wiRey

ao &

Leading Taobao livestream hosts Viya, Austin Li and Zhang Dayi (Source: Forbes)

As a result of this well-honed format, live commerce offers retailers a powerful method of selling in a

highly competitive market. Taobao reports that its livestream platform has a 32% conversion rate,

and even on other platforms conversion rates reach 18% for beauty products and 21% for female

fashion. “I think this market has just begun,” says Zhang Guowei, head of JD.com’s livestreaming

platform JD Live. “E-commerce livestreaming will become a daily [aspect] of a merchant's brand, a

new kind of brand marketing scenario.”

Lesson 2: TV home shopping

While livestream e-commerce feels innovative, the premise and format are nothing new. In fact,

they've been perfected by TV home shopping networks for half a century.

Like Chinese live commerce, TV home shopping content produces high conversion rates (QVC, the

largest network in the US, has reportedly achieved conversion rates of 16%). Home shopping

customers are also incredibly sticky — in 2019, 93% of QVC’'s sales came from repeat or reactivated

customers, who typically make between 20-25 purchases per year. As a result, despite a slow decline

as consumers move away from TV viewing, home shopping networks continue to generate a

remarkable volume of sales activity. In the US, the owner of the two biggest home shopping

networks, QVC and HSN, is one of the country’s largest e-commerce retailers and reported US$11

billion in revenue and US$1.3 billion in operating income in 2019.

Home shopping achieves these results by applying an almost identical formula to Chinese live

commerce. While home shopping is a low-growth sales channel suited to a limited set of brands, its

sales methodology delivers powerful results and deserves attention:

e Programming features lifestyle content, which uses storytelling techniques to educate the

viewer.

e There is constant variety and exclusivity in product range. QVC and HSN air up to 60 new

products per day, many of which are exclusive to the network.

e Shows generate intense urgency to purchase by providing live updates on stock levels and

showing timers counting down to deal cut-offs.

e Like Chinese KOLs, home shopping hosts are likeable and authentic personalities who

succeed at winning the viewer's trust. Unscripted segments and the use of personal

anecdotes and recommendations make home shopping feel like a social experience.

Home shopping networks have managed to remain relevant by adapting their formats to digital

channels, with 60% of QVC’s sales now occurring online. Meanwhile, big tech is also investing in

home shopping formats. In 2019, Amazon launched a home shopping channel, Amazon Live, which

allows Amazon stockists to create livestreamed content and engage with customers via a live chat

function. Meanwhile, in a significant move towards the social commerce model pioneered by

Chinese networks like WeChat, Facebook recently announced the launch of Facebook Shops, which