SOURCE: Kassam Assignment.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021\Customer Academy_Len 2021\Part 1 Series_26 Jan 2021\Pre-reading
TOPIC: Jewelry Retail Experience
SUMMARY: The case examines Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry's process for engaging clients, which shifted to a more virtual model during the COVID-19 pandemic.
KEYWORDS: jewelry retail, customer experience, digital transformation, service delivery, business adaptation
---

[Document: Kassam Assignment.docx]

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

9-621-043 (Rev 10/16/20)

Introduction:

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry (ZKFJ) designs custom engagement rings that tell the story of a couple’s relationship. The case describes the company’s process for engaging clients, which has historically been a relatively offline, high-touch experience. Obliged by social-distancing guidelines with the advent of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020, Zameer Kassam and his team had been forced to take many facets of the business online. Although clients still seemed delighted by their rings, Kassam wondered what might be being lost for his clients and employees in this new virtual medium. On the other hand, perhaps there were aspects of the process that could be improved through online delivery? Such a transition could represent an opportunity to grow the business.

Assignment:

Please read the case on ZKFJ and use the following questions to guide your preparation for our time together:

What, in your view, are the pain points and deficiencies in the traditional engagement ring shopping experience?

Consider the various steps of the ZKFJ process: introductory call, tutorial, discovery, storytelling, unveiling, and private celebration. What is each step intended to achieve, and which are the essential elements that are most crucial in its success and sustainability? How does each step contribute to the overall customer experience that ZKFJ delivers?

Consider several of the client reflections presented in Exhibit 10. How would you characterize the relationships among ZKFJ and its clients? What accounts for these dynamics?

Which elements of ZKFJ’s approach could be relaxed to drive efficiencies and/or to further scale the business? Which elements could be moved online? How, if at all, would you modify ZKFJ’s approach if service delivery became fully virtual? Could any aspects of the process be delivered more effectively in an online environment?

As you read in the case, Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry is currently in the process of doing exactly what so many service organizations around the world are doing – adapting their traditional models of service to our present reality… Their approach until how has been largely based on face-to-face relationships – even out-of-town clients would typically find their way to Manhattan, or Zameer, Aimée, or someone else on their team would find their way to the client. Social distancing has made that impossible, and so they’ve been forced to adapt.

And in adapting, they’re now questioning the extent to which some of the lessons they’re learning might endure in the post-COVID world. Might they be able to relax or adapt some of their traditional processes more permanently, taking them more online to scale the business and reach more clients.