SOURCE: King Living opens virtual showroom.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific\Virtual
TOPIC: Virtual Showroom
SUMMARY: King Living has created an interactive virtual showroom to replicate the in-store experience for customers, enabling them to explore products online.
KEYWORDS: virtual showroom, e-commerce, interactive experience, retail innovation, COVID-19 response
---

King Living opens virtual showroom

April 29, 2020

Heather McIlvaine

King Living has built an engaging new way for customers to shop for its high-end

furniture online in less time than it takes some people to select a new sofa.

In just three days, the retailer captured its entire Annandale showroom with a high-

definition professional camera, tagged each product with additional information and

hyperlinks to its e-commerce site and uploaded the content to its website, where

customers can explore the space on their computer or mobile device, zoom in on

individual products and see them from all angles.

The virtual showroom, which went live on Monday, is intended to replicate the

experience of visiting a King Living showroom. Unlike a standard e-commerce site,

which presents products individually, often against a white background with no sense

of scale or movement, the virtual showroom is an immersive and interactive

environment. For instance, shoppers are able to “open” storage seating.

“We just felt that the website was quite a static interaction, and to build and design

that [virtual showroom] interface was a great initiative to be able to continue to offer

that real life experience, but in virtual reality,” Natalie Culina, King Living’s head of

global brand, told Inside Retail.

Like many retailers in discretionary categories, King Living has closed some of its

bricks-and-mortar showrooms following the Federal and State governments’ orders

for Australians to stay home to help stop the spread of COVID-19.

The retailer has kept most of its showrooms open with reduced trading hours, but

foot traffic has been down since the social distancing restrictions were introduced,

according to Culina.

“We’re always looking at new and innovative concepts,” she said. “I think the current

time has just forced us to innovate more than we normally would, which has been

great for us and great for our customers.”

In addition to the virtual showroom, King Living has also introduced a new digital

consultation service, which allows customers to chat directly with one of the brand’s

design consultants via FaceTime, WhatsApp or Google Duo.

Going forward, Culina said King Living plans to update the virtual showroom with

new products as they become available and might even launch a new showroom

altogether.

“It’s actually extremely cost effective to be honest with you. We have a lot of

resources in-house that have expedited the process, so in terms of cost, people

would be surprised, it’s not really costly at all,” she said.

The new experience also presents an opportunity to collect data on how customers

are engaging with the brand online, and what’s working and what isn’t.

“As long as the demand for online remains as prevalent as it is now, that will give us

the ability to test and learn and respond accordingly,” Culina said.