SOURCE: Know Yourself-Know The Others-Know The Situation.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Decision-Making
SUMMARY: This text discusses a decision-making exercise where participants must decide whether to send money to an anonymous group, and how much, with the possibility of the money being tripled and returned.
KEYWORDS: decision-making, trust, game theory, risk-taking, anonymity
---

This decision is completely up to you.

-If they receive any money from you, they will then have a choice to send

some, none, or all of it back to you. (Remember, they will have 3 times what

you sent them.) They can send back any amount that they wish.

-(Note: whatever they send back will not be tripled.)

-They will not be identified, now or later. They will know all of the rules and all

of the information that you know. There are no secrets.

It's time to decide.

Do you want to send any money to this other group? If so, how much? You

can send any amount that you wish, from none of the $100 to all of it.

Indicate how much you want to send here: $.

Please Note: You are Initiators Group #___

Instructions

Initiators will start with $100. They can send any

portion or none of it to the responder group;

whatever they send triples in value.

The responder group can return as much or as little to

the initiator group as they want. NOTE: The amount

does not triple as it goes back to initiators

There will be 3 repetitions of this exercise

Each time you will be interacting with a different group

lf you are an initiator, you will make all three of your

decisions without knowing how much, if anything, the

responder groups have returned to you. i.e. No

feedback

All three rounds are completely independent ~ choices

in a previous round do not affect the starting amounts

in subsequent rounds.

Rules

. The other group will not be identified to

you (now or later).

. The other group knows ail the

information about the exercise that you

O.

. The other group knows all of the rules

that you do.

. There are no secrets.

Carter Racing*

PartsA & B

by Jack Brittain & Sim Sitkin

© Jack W. Brittain, Sim Sitkin 1986

Dp ispute

Resolution

Research

Center

PartA

John Carter was not sure, but his brother and partner,

Fred Carter, was on the phone and needed a decision.

Should they run in the race or not? It had been a

successful season so far, but the Pocono race was

important because of the prize money and TV

exposure it promised, This first year had been hard

because the team was trying to make a name for itself,

and so had to run in a lot of small races. A successful

outing could mean more sponsors, a chance to start

making some profits for a change, and the luxury of

racing only the major events. But if they suffered

another engine failure on national television....

"These engine failures are a pain in the butt,"

thought John. The team's car had failed seven times in

twenty-four outings this season with various degrees

of damage to the engine and car. No one could figure

out why. It took a lot of sponsor money to replace a

$20,000 racing engine, and the wasted entry fees

were no sinall matter either. John and Fred had

everything they owned riding on Carter Racing. This

season had to be a success.

aul Edwards, the engine mechanic, was

guessing the engine problem was related to ambient

air temperature. He argued that when it was cold, the

different expansion rates for the head and block were

damaging the head gasket and causing the engine

failures. It was below freezing last night, which meant

a cold morning for starting the race.

Tom Burns, the chief mechanic, did not agree

with Paul's "gut feeling,” and had data to support his

position (see Exhibit 1). He pointed out that the 10

gasket failures had occurred over the entire

temperature range, which meant temperature was not

the issue. Tom had been racing for twenty years, and

believed that luck was an important element in

success. "In racing, you are pushing the limits of what

is known," he often said, "and that means some things

are not going to be under control. If you want to win,

you have to take risks, and everybody in racing

knows it. The drivers have their lives on the line, I

have a career that hangs on every race, and you guys

have got every dime tied up in the business. That's the

thrill of it: beating the odds and winning.” Last night

over dinner he had added to this argument forcefully

with what he called Bums’ First Law of Racing:

"Nobody ever won a race sitting in the pits."

John, Fred and Tom had discussed Carter

Racing's situation the previous evening. This first

season was a success from a racing standpoint, with

the team's car finishing in the top five in 12 of the 15

races it completed. As a result’ The sponsorship offers

critical to the team's business success were starting to

come in. A big break had come two weeks ago after

the Dunham race, where the team scored its fourth

first-place finish. Goodstone Tire had finally decided

Carter Racing deserved its sponsorship at Pocono --

worth a much needed $40,000 _-- and was considering

a full season contract Tor next year if the team's car

finished in the top five in this race. The Goodstone

sponsorship was for a million. lus incentives.

John and Pred had fotien & favorable response from

Goodstone's Racing Program Director last week when

they presented their plans for next season, but it was

clear that his support depended on the visibility they

generated in this race.

“John, we only have another hour to decide,”

Fred said over the phone, “ At the end of the Dunham

race, and before we got the $40,000 from Goodstone,

we were $57,500 in the hole. If we withdraw now, we

can get back half the $15,000 entry. We will lose

Goodstone, they'll want $25,000 of their money back

and we’ll end up the season $50,000 in the hole. If we

run and finish in the top five; we have Goodstone in