SOURCE: Know Yourself-Know The Others-Know The Situation.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Gambling Strategies and Mindset
SUMMARY: The text discusses the mindset and strategies of a successful gambler, emphasizing the importance of making good decisions over relying on luck.
KEYWORDS: gambling, decision-making, risk management, sports betting, poker
---

one game doesn’t mean a damn thing, and

that’s why one of my mantras has always

been ‘Decisions, not results.’

Do the right thing enough times and

the results will take care of

themselves in the long run.”

“See, when | bet on sports, | don't like

anyone; | don’t have no favorite team. | like

just the opposite of whoever you like. If you

call me and you love Texas, then | love

Oklahoma. If you love Oklahoma, then | just

love Texas that much more. Because the

guesser loses, and believe you me, every

year the bookmakers are buying brand-new

Lincolns, traveling around the world, building

new homes in Aspen, while the bettors are

sitting at home scratching their broke asses.

It's been that way ever since I’ve been alive,

so why would it change now?”

"When the line starts at 177% and goes to

21%, it means that everybody in the world is

betting on the favorite and giving the 17%.

You hear the expression all the time about

the ‘smart money’ moving the line. The truth

is that the only thing that moves the line is

money, and it don’t make a bit of difference

where it comes from. What | do is, before

the line even comes out,

| do my own research and figure out what

| think the line should be.

For Super Bow! Ill, | thought the Colts

should have been favored by 12, so | love

the Jets at 21%. There are rumors that |

made an awful big bet on the Jets — let’s just

say that you'd hate to pay the income taxes

on it.

Was | a wreck watching the game? Hell no!

| knew | had already made a good decision

and was getting good value, and if the result

wasn’t favorable, I’d just take my lumps like

a man and that would have been that.

As it turned out, the final score was 16 — 7.

16

The Gambler's Code

“If you do right by folks in gambling circles,

it comes back to help you.”

“Emotion is the greatest killer to any

gambler, and if you wear your heart on your

sleeve when you wager, those bookmakers

will knock it off like a dead limb.”

“Luck does have a place in poker. I’ve lost

approximately $30 million playing poker (you

wouldn’t believe how much I’ve won), and very

little of it came from making a mistake. It’s not like

chess, where the best players win all the time. At

the 2002 World Series of Poker, of the 631 entries,

there were 13 former world champions and not

one made it to the final 45 players.

All you can do is make the plays that have a

percentage of success and put yourself in

position to win. But that doesn’t mean if you start

with two aces and your opponent starts with two

deuces that he isn’t going to beat you sometimes.

If that were the case, you wouldn't be able to get

them suckers to keep coming back.”

17

“There was $80,000 on the table when the

eight of us started, so with four players left,

$20,000 would mean average chip position.

With exactly $1,775 on the table, | had a

better chance of getting a French kiss from

the Statue of Liberty than | did of winning the

tournament. It wasn’t long after that a pot

came up where Doyle raised $700, the other

two called, and | looked down and saw that

one of my cards was a king. | shoved back

my Stetson and said, “Well, there ain’t no

need of me looking at that other card. | can

get action for my money now.”

The narrator was whooping up the crowd,

“Amarillo Slim’s a movin’ in!” “It feels better in,” |

yelled, and the crowd cracked up.

The reason | moved in all my chips was that | was

getting such a big overlay on my money.

If everyone called, which they did, | was risking

$1,700 to win $5,100, and with any hand in that

situation, it was the right play. When the flop came,

Doyle bet $4,000, the others folded, and since |

was all in, he turned up his cards, a pair of tens,

and | wasn’t liking it too much. Then | looked down

at my other card, and damned if it didn’t make for

three fives!”

18

“| made a lot of bets with Evel Knievel. A man who

gambled with his life every time he hopped on a

motorcycle was more than willing to gamble away

some of his hard-earned money. | once bet him

that | could beat him at golf using a carpenter's

hammer — the kind you drive nails with. He used

regular clubs, we played from the same tees, using

the same rules, but he gave me a stroke a hole. I’d

drop down on my knees most of the time and

swing away. | practiced every day for three

months, and, with all the money Evel was making,

we bet enough money that beating him was

certainly worthwhile.”

Slim bet Jimmy the Greek $30,000 that he

could ride a raft down 29 miles of the River

of No Return in Idaho, in the winter: “the

dumbest thing that | ever did.”

19

“You've heard me talk about not playing results,

and just because everything turned out well, it

doesn’t mean that | made the right decision in the

first place. In other words, | made a bad decision,

even though the result was OK. But it could have

just as easily not come out OK. | didn’t make

nothing on that bet. But out of pure stubbornness, |

did it anyway. It was just damn foolish any way you

slice it. It was the first bet I’d ever made where |

threw in my own personal life to sweeten the pot.