SOURCE: Know Yourself-Know The Others-Know The Situation.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Negotiation Strategies
SUMMARY: This text discusses strategies for negotiating product pricing and salary based on understanding your own value and the other party's ethics.
KEYWORDS: negotiation, pricing, salary, ethics, nonverbal communication
---

divide the total of your two numbers in some pre-specified way.

You can talk to anyone and say anything you like; you can reveal

your number or not, as you wish. All discussions must be one-on-

one; no discussions are allowed among groups larger than two.

No outside issues (e.g., beer or other sidepayments) may be

introduced into the discussions.

Typical decision rules are percentage schemes, such as splitting

the total 50-50, 60-40, 30-70, etc., or a variation on the solution of

an age-old game, "I'll keep mine and you keep yours." More

complicated schemes are also possible.

Again, the rules are simple. Say whatever you wish.

Find someone and agree how the two of you will split the

total of your two numbers. If time should run out before

you agree (and you will have plenty of forewarning about

time limits), your outcome will be zero (the worst

possible).

Once you have reached an agreement with someone,

your first game is over. You should reveal your numbers

to each other if you haven't already and sit down so

everyone who is left will know that they are the only ones

left in the market.

You will probably play this game several times. The

rules are the same each time you play. | will handle any

minor changes from one game to the next and will give

you and everyone else a new number for each play of

the game.

Lessons from the Number Market

Two Questions:

You have developed an entirely new product. It's based

on some creative ideas you have had. There is really

nothing like it on the market. You're quite sure that

people or companies will want it. Say it costs you $X to

produce. How much more than $X should you ask for it?

You have a unique educational and work experience

background. You know of no one quite like you. You're

quite sure that a company - or maybe several - will value

your qualities. Imagine that you were earning $Y in your

last job, and that, on an interview, the recruiter has asked

you how much you are looking for in salary. What do

you say?

Some Answers:

° Ask Questions.

e Get as much Information as you can.

* Don't state a number before you have some

idea of your value or your product's value.

e Any number that you state is the basis for

negotiation - and you will never get more than

that.

* Consider the long term and any precedents

you might set.

Ethical Considerations - Yours and Theirs

The Truth, the Whole Truth, and Nothing but the Truth

Your Ethics

-by all means Don't Lie

-there is no requirement to tell the whole truth

-you can dodge questions

that you would rather not answer

-if someone thinks you have deceived them -

whether you have or not -

they will think you have been unethical

-reputations are fragile

Their Ethics

-pay attention to nonverbals

-catching someone in a lie usually

results from detecting inconsistencies

-if they are shady, do you still want the deal?

Nonverbal Behavior

“You can observe a lot by watching,” Yogi Berra

When verbal and nonverbal communication are not consistent,

the nonverbals win.

Beware: Deciphering or manipulating nonverbal cues is difficult and

fraught with potential error. Nonverbal messages must be

interpreted very cautiously - and the norms of different cultures

complicate the whole process.

Nonverbal cues sometimes "leak" a person's feelings.

Eye contact or its absence

Personal space and touching

Smiling, "... the mask most frequently employed ..."

Leaning forward or back

Crossing your arms

Fidgeting in your seat

Winks

Sex differences

Women are generally better at processing

nonverbal cues: They recognize faces better,

gaze at other people more, get closer to others,

and touch more than men. They express their

emotions more; they smile more; they are gazed

at more; and people get closer to women that to

men. Women also prefer to sit next to people

they like; Men prefer to sit across from people

they like.

Therapists use nonverbals to empathize with

their clients

Twelve Angry Men

Martin Balsam

The foreman

Robert Webber John Fiedler

Ad man, glasses bank teller, glasses

George Voskovec Lee J. Cobb

Watchmaker, excitable

accent

Ed Begley E. G. Marshall

garage owner, glasses, doesn't

has a cold sweat

Joseph Sweeney Jack Klugman

the old man man from slums

Henry Fonda Edward Binns

architect white shirt,

no tie

Jack Warden

baseball fan

Interim Summary

Fonda gets Lee J. Cobb really riled up; he flies off the handle

They discuss the old man’s testimony. lf he limped, how did he run to the

door and see the boy running out of the house? How long did he say it

took? 15 seconds? They set up a reenactment, showing that it would

take about 41 seconds for the old man to get to the door. Fonda keeps

quiet after he’s made this point.

The others try to browbeat the bank teller to switch back to guilty.

Henry targets E.G. Marshall and shows that his memory for what he's

done recently is not so hot, either.

Jack Klugman says that people who use switchblades use them

underhand, not overhand, as the murderer did

When Jack Warden, the baseball fan, changes to not guilty, Fonda asks

for another vote.

With 9 voting for not guilty, he asks E.G. Marshall why he still votes

guilty. Marshall discusses the woman’s eyewitness testimony.

They seem deadlocked and set a time limit for their discussion.

Some Observations from Twelve Angry Men

* This was not an optimal decision making process:

- little identification of the issues

- no explicit discussion of the need for cooperation

- open hostility tolerated

The early public vote > strong pressures to conform

They suffered from “solution mindedness”: wanting to

reach the endpoint without considering essential

details

No one consistently coordinated their task

Participation was very uneven

The environment encouraged defensiveness rather

than support for each other

This seemingly homogeneous group wasn’t