SOURCE: Know Yourself-Know The Others-Know The Situation.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Negotiation Strategies
SUMMARY: An in-depth guide on understanding oneself, the other party, and the situation in a negotiation to develop effective strategies.
KEYWORDS: self-awareness, counterparty analysis, situational assessment, negotiation tactics, strategy implementation
---

(esenes waifl, Price +lel

KNOW YOURSELF

KNOW THE OTHER(S)

KNOW THE SITUATION

KNOW YOURSELF

*What do you want in this negotiation? How valuable are the

issues to you? How valuable are your counterparts to you?

*Should you consider any overriding principles that are more

important than the specifics of this particular negotiation?

eWhat are you willing to do in this negotiation? More

importantly, what are you not willing to do?

els there anything that might make you angry during the

negotiations? If it happens, how will you control your anger?

°What will make you happy when it is over?

eWhat will make you unhappy when it is over?

*How do you want to feel when the negotiation is over?

eHow do you want to come across as a person?

Yogi Berra: “If you don’t know where you’re going, you might

not get there.”

KNOW THE OTHER(S)

«What do they want in this negotiation? How valuable are the

issues to them? How valuable are you to them?

Will they be considering any overriding principles that are

more important to them than the specifics of this particular

negotiation?

«What do you think that they are willing to do in this

negotiation? What do you think that they are not willing to

do?

«What will make them happy when it is over?

*What will make them unhappy when it is over?

*How do you want them to feel when the negotiation is over?

*Can you predict how they will behave in the negotiation?

Does it pay to try?

KNOW THE SITUATION

*Have you negotiated with these people before? If so, is

it likely that they will follow the strategies they previously

used’?

«Will you be negotiating with them again?

*Who has better alternatives to a negotiated agreement?

*Do opportunities for cooperation exist in this

negotiation? If you try to attain them and fail, how much

will it cost you?

*Do you have all the information you will need to

negotiate effectively? What information would you still

like to have and how can you find it?

eAre there opportunities for both you and them to be

better off after this negotiation? How can you maximize

that possibility?

We are a Small Group - We Must Work Together

1. Do as Well as You can For Yourself in this Exercise

2. Share Your Feelings and Observations Afterwards

e.g., “When you said that, you made me mad."

“Boy did | make a wrong move there.”

"| made the first connection, but not the

second or third."

"You really had me fooled."

This way we can learn from our Successes and our Mistakes.

We have a Safe Environment Here.

And a Rare One, Where We can Find Out How Our

Counterparts Have Done After a Negotiation Ends.

So | ask you to Take Our Negotiations Seriously —

That Way We Will All Get More Out of Them

We will all be working

Your tasks are to

Formulate the best strategies you can

Implement your strategies effectively

Reflect on what happened and why it happened

Think about how you can apply what you've learned

to your everyday experiences

Do the applications

Keep track of how your negotiations have changed

My tasks are to

Present you with fundamental negotiation exercises

Identify the critical behaviors in the exercises

Provide pointed evaluation of the pluses and minuses

Identify optimal strategies

Suggest some possible applications

The Goals of This Workshop

°To Be Comfortable Negotiating

*To Diagnose Accurately

*To Think Strategically — Automatically

°To Implement Effectively

°To Know Yourself Better so that you can

Think Strategically - Automatically.

Implement Effectively

*TO CONVERT OUR LEARNINGS

INTO PROFIT

A Short Exercise

°Task: Arm wrestling

*Rule: Absolutely no talking

*Goal: Win as many rounds as possible.

Winning = The other person’s arm hits the table

°Reward: $100 for each round you win

Time limit: 20 seconds

Four Elements of Complex Negotiations

(deavm from Walton and McKereio's classic on Labor Negotiations)

Distributive: | The competitive part: Me against You;

zero-Sum

Integrative: The part where you can expand the pie or

reduce its size depending on what you and

the other party do.

Attitudinal Structuring: Whether you communicate

respect (or lack of it) for the

other party; sets the stage

for future interactions.

Intraorganizational Bargaining: How you must not

only negotiate with a

counterpart, but also

with your own side.

A Leader’s Negotiation Scorecard

Distributive: Integrative: Personal: Intraorg:

How did|do Did we Did | lay the How well

in terms of maximize groundwork did we

Outcomes? the size of for future work

the Pie? negotiations? together?

Grades on your Journals

Outstanding - we wish that we had written this journal

Excellent - does the job well, completely and convincingly

Very good - something small is missing

Good - some thing more than a small thing is missing

Fair - not enough effort; only a single concept identified and analyzed

Poor - almost no effort or analysis; no real world story

“A consistent string of excellents and outstandings on your journals will certainly

merit a high grade; lots of fairs and poors will mean that you won't get a wonderful

grade and that your job is probably in jeopardy.”

The Rules for the Everyone Has a

Number Market

The rules for this game are incredibly simple. Each of you will be

given a slip of paper with a number on it. Your task is to form a

pair with someone else in the group and agree between the two of

you how you will divide the total of your two numbers. You want to

inish with as high a number as you can.

That's all there is to it. Simply find someone who will agree to

divide the total of your two numbers in some pre-specified way.

You can talk to anyone and say anything you like; you can reveal

your number or not, as you wish. All discussions must be one-on-

one; no discussions are allowed among groups larger than two.