SOURCE: Know Yourself-Know The Others-Know The Situation.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Decision-Making Biases
SUMMARY: The text analyzes common decision-making biases, such as confirmation bias, groupthink, and overconfidence, and provides corrective actions to address them.
KEYWORDS: decision-making, cognitive biases, group dynamics, organizational behavior
---

Confirmation

They didn’t seek potentially disconfirming evidence

The Power of Numbers

Managerial Preferences for Action, not Inaction

Groupthink

Corrective Actions

* Search for Disconfirming Evidence

* Ask Outsiders (less influenced by

representativeness); Maximize Diversity

* Change Reference points (e.g., invoice,

not list price)

° Don’t penalize Errors when intentions and

effort are good

¢ In other words, Reward Process

* Reframe

Corrective Actions (continued)

1. Understand Decision Biases and Our

Predilection to be Influenced by Them

2. As Decision Makers, we all deviate from

Rationality

3. We are influenced by the format of

information

4. Heuristics are very useful but open us up

for Biased Decisions

10

Honor Code

Please do not discuss Carter Racing with

people outside of this class.

Doing so would be an Honor Code Violation

it would really ruin the impact of the learning

experience.

Po

The Explosion of the Columbia

Feb 1, 2003

From the Report investigating the disaster:

“the initiating event preceded the accident by

more than two weeks.... A piece of insulating

foam ... struck the wing ... at 81.9 seconds after

launch. This ... allowed super heated air to

penetrate the ... insulation and progressively

melt the aluminum structure of the left wing, ...

weakening the structure until ... breakup of the

orbiter.”

Po

14

Organizational causes

* rooted in the program's history

* reliance on past successes

* organizational barriers that limited effective

communication and stifled differences of opinion

« the evolution of an informal chain of command

« clearly overconfident, minimizing the threat of earlier

foam strikes

* engineers worried; managers dismissed the worries

* a broken safety culture

* often bureaucratic: layered, cumbersome regulations

* engineer’s Columbia discussions did not reach

management

* accepting of risks without adequate information

‘Echoes’ of the Challenger

The bad habits “that were in effect at the time of the

Challenger accident — like inadequate concern over

deviations form expected performance, a silent safety

program and schedule pressure — had returned to

NASA,” and “history became cause.”

¢ Vigilance declines over time

¢ Insufficient organizational and economic support for

NASA’s ambitions

¢ Top-level leadership is needed to challenge long

held practices

12

ls

iS

470 + Contributions (and predictions) from 65

wae

3

>400 students in EMP53, September 14, 2001

140 “Their target was $400.

kn lex [= le Jo [w

ey

a by Jo [a IS f+ fe |e fe 8

“a2 Total: $457

40 GED

3 rm ; re 4 $20s, 11 $10s, 1 $2,

rn oD r ‘on 1 $3, 6 $1s, 2 Zeroes

7 420 5 250

Zz 420, 2 300)

40 £00 7 420

7z 420 40, 00

: :

9

sk

© J. Keith Murnighan, 2004

b3 413 en 33 idle [> J | [5 te

Some Lessons

*It is possible for everyone in the group to increase

your investment by about 50%.

*But almost no group achieves this simple goal

Why?

First Order, Individualistic Thinking

Lack of Trust in Others

Self Interest

Lack of a Joint Commitment

No Possibility for Communication

(an Excuse rather than a Cause)

The Rules for

The Game of Envelopes and Money

Please pay close attention.

Discussion among yourselves in any way is not permitted.

You can put any amount of money you wish in your

envelope.

I keep the money you have put in the envelopes.

I will give each of you $10 if the total in the envelopes

exceeds $ :

l0Us are not accepted. But | will make change. If you need

change, indicate how much on a small piece of paper, put

your name on it, and include it in your envelope.

On the back of the envelope, on the lower right corner,

please indicate how much you think the total will be.

For ease of counting, please do not seal your envelope.

Contributions from a group of 40 executives, Spring

1999, after they had completed and discussed the

Gas Station Game.

‘Their target was $250.

(Note: They had one of five pairs of groups with all

1200s; they had only one other round of 1200s

among the other groups.)

Total: $253.25

Four $20s, Ten $10s,

Ten of $1 or less

How Could You Have Succeeded?

Believing in Each Other as Individuals

Second Order, Collective Thinking

Believing in Yourselves as a Unit

Forgetting Self-Interest and

Seeking the Collective Good

te,

A Short Decision Making Quiz

Problem 1: Which of the following

causes more deaths in the United

States each year:

a. Colon cancer

b. Motor vehicle accidents

1. Which of the following causes more deaths in the

United States each year:

a. Colon cancer

b. Motor vehicle accidents

The Availability Heuristic: We tend to recall things

that are available in our memory. Thus we

remember things that are emotional, vivid, easily

imagined, and specific.

Typical pattern of responses and analysis:

Motor vehicle accidents are falsely assumed to be more

prevalent: colon cancer causes 10,000 more deaths as

motor vehicle accidents. However, motor vehicle

accidents are more vivid and receive more attention in

the press.

The Availability Heuristic: Ease of Recall

A very useful managerial decision making strategy,

because more frequent events are more easily recalled.

Thus, we are likely to make accurate judgments about

trends. But this simple rule is fallible. Consider these

examples:

* The subordinate in close proximity to the

manager's office will receive a more critical year-

end review because the manager is more aware of

this person's errors.

¢ A major mutual fund manager recommends stocks

that are unavailable in people's minds because

those that are available are likely to be overvalued

Problem 2: You are the sales forecaster for department store chain with nine

locations. The chain depends on you for quality projections of future sales in

order to make decisions on staffing, advertising, information system

developments, purchasing, renovation, etc. All stores are similar in size and

merchandise selection. The main difference in their sales occurs because of

location and random fluctuations. Sales for 2004 were as follows:

Store 2004 2006

$12,000,000 | $