SOURCE: Know Yourself-Know The Others-Know The Situation.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Decision Making Under Uncertainty
SUMMARY: The text discusses people's risk preferences in decision-making under uncertainty, where they exhibit risk aversion for gains and risk-seeking for losses.
KEYWORDS: risk aversion, framing effect, gains and losses, decision-making
---

2. lf Program B is adopted, there is a one-third probably that all will

be saved and a two-thirds probability that none will be saved.

Problem 6: The U. S. is preparing for the outbreak of a deadly disease that is

expected to kill 600 people. Two alternative programs are being considered. Which

would you favor?

1. If Program A is adopted, 400 people will die.

2. If Program B is adopted, there is a one-third probability that no

one will die and a two-thirds probability that all will die.

Typical pattern of responses and analysis:

Strategy A is preferred in the first version; Strategy B is preferred in the second.

We are risk averse to gains and risk seeking to losses.

Framing - Getting a "Good Deal"

Problem 7: Imagine that you are about to purchase a calculator

for $50. The calculator salesperson informs you that the

calculator that you wish to buy is on sale at the other branch of

the store, located a 20 minute drive away. How much of a

discount in the price of the calculator would lead you to be willing

to travel to the other branch to buy it?

Problem 7: Imagine that you are about to purchase a television

for $500. The television salesperson informs you that this

television is on sale at the other branch of the store, located a 20

minute drive from where you are now. How much of a discount

in the price of the TV would lead you to be willing to travel to the

other branch to buy it?

Typical pattern of responses and analysis: Respondents

require a much higher discount on the more expensive

commodity. We seek transactional utility (getting a good deal) in

our purchasing behavior.

14

Framing - Gains and Losses

Problem 4: Which would you rather have? (Circle one)

$800 for sure OR an 85% chance for $1000 and a 15% chance for $0

Problem 8: Which would you rather do? (Circle one)

pay $800 for sure OR take an 85% chance of paying $1000

and a 15% chance of paying $0

Typical pattern of responses and analysis: People are risk averse

in problem 4: they tend to choose the $800 for sure, rather than

taking the risk. But they tend to be risky in problem 8, taking the

chance to either pay $1000 or pay nothing. People would be

consistent if they took the certain choice in both problems or if they

took the lottery in both problems. They would be rational if they

maximized their expected values in both problems [by taking the

lottery in problem 4 (expected value = $850) and paying $800 in

problem 8 (lottery expected value = -$850)]. Most people are neither

consistent nor rational.

The Number Sequence Task

1. Your Goal: To determine the rule (the logic) that | used

when | created this sequence of three numbers.

2. How You Can Get Information: You can propose other

sequences of three numbers. If they conform to my rule

(my logic), | will say “Yes.” If they don’t, | will say “No.”

You can do this (i.e., propose sequences) as many times

as you like.

3. What To Do When You Think You Know the Rule:

Make a Guess. If you are correct, we will all applaud.

If you aren't, someone else will go back to step 2 and

propose some sequences until they want to make a

guess. We will repeat this until someone identifies my rule

(my logic).

Amarillo Slim

The Greatest Gambler Who Ever Lived

Some quotes from his autobiography

You might ask, “Is all of this true?”

There may be a bit of hyperbole here.

In fact, you can probably bet on it.

But see if you don’t discover some wisdom, too.

“| learned from Minnesota Fats that the more

you can get someone to want to beat you,

the more likely you are to make him emotional,

so that his ego gets in the way of his brain.”

“| also decided that I’d better get me a

nickname fast, and since some of my friends

called me Slim anyway, | took a page from

Fats’s book, and from that day forward, |

became known as Amarillo Slim.”

13

The way sports booking works is that when

you place a bet, you lay 11 to 10 —

pay 11 if you lose and get paid 10 if you win.

“It’s a myth that bookies want to balance

their books- that they want the same number

of people on both sides of the ledger

so that they can just collect the vig

and not have any risk. ...

Their goal is to take as much action as they

can, knowing that the bettor is going to lose

in the long run.”

The rich oilman, a Notre Dame grad

Slim told him that Notre Dame was favored by 34

points over Purdue, even though the actual line

was 30. “I knew this man well enough that | could

put the odds in my favor. ... you see, if you've

ever met an Notre Dame fan, you know that

they're rabid ... You see, | knew that the oilman

might not bet on Notre Dame minus 34, but you

couldn't have put a machine gun on him to make

him take Purdue at plus 34. He wouldn’t dare bet

against his beloved alma mater.

“| Know that you’re waiting for me to tell you

that Purdue ended up losing by 33, but the

truth is, | couldn’t tell you, and it don’t matter

either way.

The point is that in gambling, you need to

put your odds in your favor. The result of

one game doesn’t mean a damn thing, and

that’s why one of my mantras has always

been ‘Decisions, not results.’

Do the right thing enough times and

the results will take care of

themselves in the long run.”

“See, when | bet on sports, | don't like