SOURCE: Know Yourself-Know The Others-Know The Situation.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Group Dynamics and Decision-Making
SUMMARY: The text analyzes group decision-making biases, influence tactics, and the trust game, highlighting the importance of managing group processes and interpersonal dynamics.
KEYWORDS: group decision-making, influence tactics, trust game, conformity pressure, decision biases
---

The early public vote > strong pressures to conform

They suffered from “solution mindedness”: wanting to

reach the endpoint without considering essential

details

No one consistently coordinated their task

Participation was very uneven

The environment encouraged defensiveness rather

than support for each other

This seemingly homogeneous group wasn’t

Henry Fonda: Worth Emulating

« Appeared neutral and calm, was never angry with

people, only with issues or actions

e Shifted people’s frames (supposing ...; it’s possible,

isn't it?)

+ Used vivid examples (the knife)

+ Didn’t respond when his opponents made a good point

(he didn’t argue)

e Increased his aggressiveness over time

« Let quiet supporters exhibit their expertise

* Convinced people with his arguments and his values

Took leadership by defining the situation for everyone

Decision Biases and Influence

Speak Early to be an Anchor

Shift People’s Anchors from Guilty or Not

to Talk or Not

Present Evidence that is Vivid and Make it Available

Identify Representative Stereotypes, i.e., Slums and

Crime

Other Group Observations

Rather than Unique Information, Groups Typically

Biscuss Information that Group Members Already

are

The Loudest Group Members are not always the Most

Intelligent

Influence in Group Decisions

Procedural Tactics

Plan the process beforehand

Distribute an agenda

Outline the process at the start of the meeting

Define the problem early (e.g., guilt vs reasonable

doubt)

Use public voting to apply conformity pressure

Use private voting to reduce conformity pressure

Get support for each point you make; allies are golden

Discuss issues with people who are uncertain outside

the group discussion

Don’t ask for much

Interpersonal Tactics

Remain calm and appear impartial

Point to superordinate goals and others’ interests

Give opponents enough rope to hang themselves; Use

opponents’ statements against them

Don’t respond when an opponent makes a good point

Empower people as allies: Make sure that the quiet

group members have an opportunity to share their

insights

Ask questions rather than asserting positions: help

people to convince themselves

ee

The Trust Game

Typical Outcomes

. Initiators send more $$ when their endowments are larger, but the

percentage drops. (We worry more about more valuable things.)

. Responders are particularly concerned about trust. If initiators send

something, but less than everything, responders wonder:

“Why didn’t s/he trust me more?”

. The more that initiators send, the more (proportionally) responders

return.

. Ifinitiators send 10-25%, responders tend to return nothing and

initiators are worse off.

If initiators send 25-95%, they will be lucky to get back as much as they

sent.

If initiators send 96-100%, responders are likely to return half of the

overall total (about 150%) and, overall, initiators will gain.

. Some responders return nothing even when initiators send everything.

The Trust Game

Experimental Results when

Trustors start with $20 (for real)

When initiators send all $20 of their endowment,

generating $60 in real money for responders

~40% of responders sent $30 back

~30% of responders sent nothing back

~20% of responders sent $20 back

On average, sending $20 led to a return of $22, but

the outcomes were highly volatile, confirming the risky

nature of this decision.

The Trust Game

The Moral of the Story

* Sending a small amount leads to weak feelings of obligation and

many zero returns.

Feelings of obligation are the key determinant of reciprocity.

Responders most often sent enough back to equalize outcomes with

initiators, especially when initiators sent their entire endowment.

* When equalizing was not possible, 80% of responders returned

nothing. This also means that 20% of responders made the initiator

even better off.

Initiators who sent sizable amounts were generally not perceived as

smart, but responders who did see them as smart returned more

than responders who did not.

Initiators are particularly sensitive to their own risks; responders are

particularly sensitive to their own benefits. Neither group is

particularly sensitive to the others’ most important issue.

The Trust Game

Practical Concerns and Advice

¢ Sending any amount in this exercise is

clearly risky.

Sending everything is smart only if the

respondent thinks it’s smart.

Partial trust, which seems truly

reasonable to initiators, is their worst

possible strategy.

Point # 8

Trust

is not being afraid

even if you’re vulnerable.

From a TV ad of a little girl in an open field with a

rhinoceros charging at her. (It stopped and she

petted its nose.)

Trust

*Integrity (Do people tell the truth? Do they do

what they say they will do?)

«Competence (Can people accomplish what you

expect of them and what they have promised?)

*Benevolence (Are people totally self-interested or

do they truly care about others’ interests?)

Trusting Acts

eintentional (Trusting someone because you must

is not trust.)

*Risky (Trusting acts make the truster vulnerable)

*Interdependent (Trusting acts create the potential

for mutual benefit. They are not altruism.)

© J. Keith Mumighan, 2005

A Rational Model of Trust Development

Strong

Trust

Weak

Time and Repeated

Positive Interactions

What happens when a golden

opportunity arises but it requires

that you trust others more than

may be prudent, i.e., early in

your interactions?

~

Time and Repeated

Positive Interactions

The Result if Irrational Trust is Reciprocated

Strong

Trust

Weak

Time and Repeated

Positive Interactions

Leaders Must Take Risks > Trusting Others

+ Delegate

* Develop a Team

* Don’t Micro - Manage

The Ingredients for Trust to Happen

* Bea Trusting Person (Develop a Thick Skin; Take a

Leap of Faith)

° Trust Many People Completely: This way you

hedge your bets over many trusting choices, far better

than hedging your bets by partially trusting everyone.

* Embrace Trustworthy People

Create Situations that allow/promote Trust

When things go wrong and Trust is in peril

Recognize that this is a common event and usually not

intended

Rather than being immediately suspicious, consider the

simplest explanation

3. Ask questions to determine the source of the problem.

4, If you are at fault, first, Apologize

Then, Offer Penance by asking what you can do. This

makes it clear that you are taking responsibility for the

problem.