SOURCE: Know Yourself-Know The Others-Know The Situation.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Conflict Resolution and Negotiation
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for resolving conflicts, such as asking questions, taking responsibility, and making amends, as well as the dynamics of competitive bidding situations.
KEYWORDS: conflict resolution, negotiation, competitive bidding, decision-making, escalation of commitment
---

intended

Rather than being immediately suspicious, consider the

simplest explanation

3. Ask questions to determine the source of the problem.

4, If you are at fault, first, Apologize

Then, Offer Penance by asking what you can do. This

makes it clear that you are taking responsibility for the

problem.

These simple responses — ones that are familiar to all of

us — go a long way to getting things back on track. They

also help save everyone’s investments in the relationship.

© J, Keith Mumighan, 2008

The Rules for the Dollar Auction

Bidding starts at $1 and proceeds in dollar increments.

And, yes, this is for real money.

No jump bidding.

The auctioneer will give all bidders fair warning before

the auction ends.

Cartels and collusion among bidders are strictly

prohibited. This means no communication, verbal or

nonverbal, is allowed.

go0 highest bidder pays what they bid and receives

The second highest bidder pays what they bid.

Imagine the following Situation:

Company C is worth $1b

It announces that it would not mind being sold

Company A and Company B are the

dominant companies in Company C’s industry

Wall street expects that A and B will find C to

be an attractive acquisition candidate

Both firms, due to synergy, are likely to find

that C is worth about $1.2b to them

But the rub comes in here:

* fA acquires C, B would lose around $%b

Similarly, lf B acquires C, A would lose

around $%4b

A and B cannot speak with each other

* You are company A

What is your next move? What would you

do?

What do you want B to do?

Not Bid

_ This is just like the auction we just ran.

[have sold a $20 in this kind of auction for less than $20:

one first auction — for $15

a rare few 2nd, 3rd, or 4th auctions

The question is Why?

Many responses: “it’s a good deal”

That is, bidding $4 for a $20 bill is a good deal

But if you bid $4, what is the $3 bidder likely to do if no one

else enters the bidding??

Answer #1 to the Why? Question:

People don’t think enough about other, relevant people’s

likely decisions.

Another factor, Answer #2

We often continue to escalate our commitment

Especially after we have made a public act (like bidding

in this auction)

Example:

Many Banks don’t let loan officers review loans:

They might be tempted to succumb to requests for more

$$ to stave off bankruptcy

Factor #3

In the $20 auction, when two people are isolated and get

to the $30+ range: they want to win. And the costs

become less important

Let’s return to Companies A, B, and C

Ais United Airlines

B is American Airlines

C is USAir (known to be acquirable in 1995)

If A or B bid, the other would be likely to bid and both

would be likely to escalate the bidding for the above three

reasons

Even if you lose less than your competitor (i.e., you win

the auction and your acquisition costs them more than it

costs you), this is still a losing strategy (unless they are

likely to go out of business and you will gain more in the

long run due to their absence).

The actual solution:

* — Robert Crandall, CEO of American (who has been

guilty of fueling competition via fare wars and

frequent flier programs) devised a strategy and

communicated it via an internal memo to all of his

118,000 employees.

* The strategy? “We will not be the first to bid on

USAir. If someone else bids, we will bid, too.”

« This example was reiterated by Lee lacocca when

he was CEO at Chrysler. To the press, he promised

that he would not reinstitute rebates on new cars

unless others did. Then he was prepared to

institute them, too.

The moral of these stories

— one difficult to implement in the $20 auction:

« You don't do nothing and pray

« You send a legal signal

e If they bid, you analyze and bid and push both

sides to equal losses.

The end of this airline story

The PUNCHLINE:

Smart people make systematic decision

making mistakes on a regular basis.

This affects many managerial and

executive decisions

Why? It’s tough to get the kinds of

feedback you need to learn to correct

your mistakes.

Some Lessons from the Dollar Auction

Know the Rules (and Their Ramifications) Before You

ay

The Monetary Value of Pride-People will pay a lot to

avoid losing, particularly in front of people they know.

What about you?

Emotions can Interrupt Learning

The Temptation to win a buck (or 2) has amazing appeal

"It is better to keep your mouth shut and be thought a

{ool than to open it and remove all doubt." - Abraham

incoln

Set limits for Yourself before beginning ~ even if you

i

don't strictly conform to them, you'll still be better off.

Ignore Sunk Costs: Once we've invested (time, effort, or

money) we value the investment and have a very hard

time abandoning it.

Initiators’ Choice #1

Here’s the situation: Imagine that you and your group start this exercise with

$100. You can keep this money and do with it whatever you wish or you can

send some or all of it to another group in another room (who will not be

identified, now or later). Any money that you send will be tripled on its way to

them. Thus, if you send them $1, they will receive $3; if you send them $10,

they will receive $30; if you send them $100 they will receive $300. You can

send them any amount that you wish. You can send them nothing if you wish.

This decision is completely up to you.

-If they receive any money from you, they will then have a choice to send

some, none, or all of it back to you. (Remember, they will have 3 times what