SOURCE: Know Yourself-Know The Others-Know The Situation.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Racing Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the racing team's dilemma of whether to run and risk losing a sponsorship or not race at all.
KEYWORDS: racing strategy, sponsorship risk, engine problems
---

can get back half the $15,000 entry. We will lose

Goodstone, they'll want $25,000 of their money back

and we’ll end up the season $50,000 in the hole. If we

run and finish in the top five; we have Goodstone in

our pocket and can add another car next season. You

know as well as I do, however, that if we run and lose

another engine, we are back at square one next

season. We will lose the tire sponsorship, and a

blown engine is going to lose us the oil contract for

sure, No oil company wants a national TV audience

to see a smoker being dragged off the track with their

SfSe0

name plastered all over it. The oil sponsorship is

$500,000 that we cannot live without. Think about it -

- call Paul and Tom if you want -- but I need a

decision in an hour,"

eee

John hung up the phone and looked out the

window at the crisp fall sky. The temperature sign

across the street flashed "40 DEGREES AT 9:23

AM."

Part B

"Get Paul Edwards for me." John was calling to get

his engine mechanic's opinion on whether they should

run today or not. The data Tom put together indicated

that temperature was not the problem, but John

wanted to get Paul's direct assessment.

Paul Edwards was a classic "gas station

mechanic," with fingernails permanently blackened

by grease and clean coveralls for the first two minutes

on Saturday mornings. He had been knocking around

the professional circuit for ten years after dropping

out of school at sixteen to follow drag racing. He

lacked the sophisticated engineering training that was

getting more common in racing, but he did know

racing engines,

John had discussed the gasket problem with Paul

two days ago, and as he waited he reflected on the

conversation they had. Paul was a man of few words,

and not given to overstatement. "The way I see it, the

turbo-pressure during warm-up -- in conjunction with

the different expansion rates for the head and block --

is doing a number on us," was about the extent of

what he would say on the problem. It was his opinion

about the cause of the problem, and he would not

represent it as anything else.

It was the same story John had heard twenty

times, but it just did not match Tom's data. "Paul, we

have chewed this over before, but how do you know

this is the problem? When we ran at Riverside the

temperature was 75 degrees and we still lost the

gasket and engine."

"| am not sure what happened at Riverside," Paul

had replied. "I am not sure that temperature is the

problem, but it is the only thing I can figure out. It is

definitely the gaskets that are blowing out and

causing the engine to go."

Part of Carter Racing's success was due to a

unique turbo-charging system that Tom and John had

developed. They had come up with a new head design

that allowed them to get more turbo pressure to the

engine while maintaining fuel consumption at a fairly

constant level. By casting the head and turbo bodies

in a high-strength aircraft alloy, they had also saved

almost fifty pounds of weight. The alloy they were

using was not as temperature sensitive as the material

in the engine block, but the head gasket should be

able to handle the differences,

John could hear the sounds of race day in the

background as Paul approached the phone. “Hello

John," he said, obviously excited. "The Goodstone

coveralls just got here. We are talking some fine

threads, and no sew-on patches from these guys. The

logo on the back and our names are stitched right into

the material. I guess this means we get to keep ‘em.

Course, I got some grease on mine already, so they

probably won't want 'em back anyway.”

"That is great,” John said. "Look, I want to find

out what we are doing about the gasket failure

business.”

"The car is set to go. We have been using a different

seating procedure since Slippery Rock, and had no

problems for two races. Tom says the Goodstone deal

is set as long as we finish in the money today. The

guys in the shop want this bad. Goodstone is a class

act; they can make us the number one team on the

circuit if we do well."

Exhibit 1: Note from Tom Burns

John,

I got the data on the gasket failure problem from Paul. We have run 24 races this season, with temperatures at

race time ranging from 53 to 82 degrees. Paul had a good idea in suggesting we look into this, but as you can see,

this is not our problem. I tested the data for a correlation between temperature and gasket failures, and found no

relationship.

Relationship Between Temperature and Gasket Failures

Head

Gasket

Failures

Ambient Air Temperature (in degrees)

In comparison with some of the other teams, we have done extremely well this season. We have finished 62.5%

of the races, and when we finished we were in the top five 80% of the time. Our rate of blown engines is 29%, but

we are running fast, so we have to expect some difficulties. I am not happy with the engine problems, but I will take

the four first-place finishes and 50% rate of finishing in the money over seven engines any day. If we continue to run

like this, we will have our pick of sponsors.

Tom

Two things to keep in mind

during your deliberations

1 - The oil company sponsorship is forthcoming; it

amounts to $500,000 and will only be withheld if the team

blows an engine in this race

2 - Goodstone Tire has already committed to a

sponsorship of the car for $40,000.

A top five finish will mean a full season sponsorship next

year to the tune of $1 million plus incentives.