SOURCE: kotter_bookshelf_change.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Organizational Change Management
SUMMARY: This book provides a framework for building an organization capable of adapting to constant change and innovation, while maintaining short-term results.
KEYWORDS: organizational change, strategic agility, change management, leadership, innovation
---

[Document: kotter_bookshelf_change.txt]

> "”Change is everywhere now, yet there is no broadly accepted and effective way to adapt to it. Obstacles slow progress, and the most relevant obstacle to change and innovation is often the very nature of established firms. Kotter and his co-authors show in this book how to build a platform able to promote and welcome change. They describe with story after story how to multiply the resources engaged in providing strategic agility, speed, and the like while continuing to deliver ongoing short term results. They also illuminate how to make your organization ready for the next big set of changes, whatever they are.

Revealing. Intriguing. Masterful. —Alberto Iraceformer CEO of ACEA, Rome Italy"

”Change is everywhere now, yet there is no broadly accepted and effective way to adapt to it. Obstacles slow progress, and the most relevant obstacle to change and innovation is often the very nature of established firms. Kotter and his co-authors show in this book how to build a platform able to promote and welcome change. They describe with story after story how to multiply the resources engaged in providing strategic agility, speed, and the like while continuing to deliver ongoing short term results. They also illuminate how to make your organization ready for the next big set of changes, whatever they are.

Revealing. Intriguing. Masterful.

> "”The Thrive/Survive model is an extremely interesting construct, nicely illustrated throughout the entire book. Between the research and the case studies, the key implications are well covered and the points are clearly made. This makes this book a very practical point of application of brain and behavioral science.

The first two chapters make an excellent short book just by themselves. Then chapters 9 and 10 also are extraordinary. The reflection about what social movements can learn from businesses and vice versa is intriguing and thought-provoking. And the proclamation of more leadership from more people makes the reader crave to go look for more ways to democratize leadership. —Antonio BoadasChief Communication Officer, Haier/GE Appliances"

”The Thrive/Survive model is an extremely interesting construct, nicely illustrated throughout the entire book. Between the research and the case studies, the key implications are well covered and the points are clearly made. This makes this book a very practical point of application of brain and behavioral science.

The first two chapters make an excellent short book just by themselves. Then chapters 9 and 10 also are extraordinary. The reflection about what social movements can learn from businesses and vice versa is intriguing and thought-provoking. And the proclamation of more leadership from more people makes the reader crave to go look for more ways to democratize leadership.

> "”Powerful and timely thought leadership that fills a much needed gap. —Charles FleetChief Transformation Officer, Omnitracs"

”Powerful and timely thought leadership that fills a much needed gap.

> "”This is a great book with a ton of insight, hugely relevant everywhere today. It’s even more important in technology, where if you do not change fast enough, you get run over. Think Intel. Self-cannibalization is often key to winning. You cannot ‘strategically plan’ your way to success in technology. Despite the massive pace of events, competition, speed, increased risk, after reading this book you will be left inspired—inspired to ‘press your own change button. —Taner OzcelikSVP and Group General Manager, ON Semiconductor"

”This is a great book with a ton of insight, hugely relevant everywhere today. It’s even more important in technology, where if you do not change fast enough, you get run over. Think Intel. Self-cannibalization is often key to winning. You cannot ‘strategically plan’ your way to success in technology. Despite the massive pace of events, competition, speed, increased risk, after reading this book you will be left inspired—inspired to ‘press your own change button.

> "”In this increasingly complex world, every leader needs this guidebook to enact meaningful change and achieve results. It is another Kotter masterpiece on leadership. —Reihaneh Irani-FamiliVice President of Business Readiness, National Grid"

”In this increasingly complex world, every leader needs this guidebook to enact meaningful change and achieve results. It is another Kotter masterpiece on leadership.