SOURCE: Leading_Change.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of establishing a sense of urgency, forming a powerful guiding coalition, and creating short-term wins in the process of leading organizational change.
KEYWORDS: change management, organizational transformation, guiding coalition, sense of urgency, short-term wins
---

[Document: Leading_Change.txt]

Konosuke Matsushita Professor of that short-term business results will be jeopar- from Wall Street in the process. One division

Leadership at Harvard Business School dized, that the stock will sink, and that they president commissioned first-ever customer

in Boston. will be blamed for creating a crisis. satisfaction surveys, knowing full well that the

harvard business review • january 2007 page 3

--- Page 5 ---

Leading Change•••BEST OF HBR

results would be terrible. He then made these formation efforts, the leadership coalition

findings public. On the surface, such moves can grows and grows over time. But whenever

look unduly risky. But there is also risk in play- some minimum mass is not achieved early in

ing it too safe: When the urgency rate is not the effort, nothing much worthwhile happens.

pumped up enough, the transformation pro- It is often said that major change is impos-

cess cannot succeed, and the long-term future sible unless the head of the organization is an

of the organization is put in jeopardy. active supporter. What I am talking about

When is the urgency rate high enough? goes far beyond that. In successful transfor-

From what I have seen, the answer is when mations, the chairman or president or divi-

about 75% of a company’s management is hon- sion general manager, plus another five or

estly convinced that business as usual is totally 15 or 50 people, come together and develop

unacceptable. Anything less can produce very a shared commitment to excellent perfor-

serious problems later on in the process. mance through renewal. In my experience,

this group never includes all of the company’s

Error 2: Not Creating a Powerful most senior executives because some people

Enough Guiding Coalition just won’t buy in, at least not at first. But in

Major renewal programs often start with just the most successful cases, the coalition is

one or two people. In cases of successful trans- always pretty powerful—in terms of titles,

EIGHT STEPS TO TRANSFORMING

YOUR ORGANIZATION

1

Establishing a Sense of Urgency

•Examining market and competitive realities

•Identifying and discussing crises, potential crises, or major opportunities

2

Forming a Powerful Guiding Coalition

•Assembling a group with enough power to lead the change effort

•Encouraging the group to work together as a team

3

Creating a Vision

•Creating a vision to help direct the change effort

•Developing strategies for achieving that vision

4

Communicating the Vision

•Using every vehicle possible to communicate the new vision and strategies

•Teaching new behaviors by the example of the guiding coalition

5

Empowering Others to Act on the Vision

•Getting rid of obstacles to change

•Changing systems or structures that seriously undermine the vision

•Encouraging risk taking and nontraditional ideas, activities, and actions

6

Planning for and Creating Short-Term Wins

•Planning for visible performance improvements

•Creating those improvements

•Recognizing and rewarding employees involved in the improvements

7

Consolidating Improvements and Producing Still More Change

•Using increased credibility to change systems, structures, and policies that

don’t fit the vision

•Hiring, promoting, and developing employees who can implement the vision

•Reinvigorating the process with new projects, themes, and change agents

8

Institutionalizing New Approaches

•Articulating the connections between the new behaviors and corporate

success

•Developing the means to ensure leadership development and succession

harvard business review • january 2007 page 4

--- Page 6 ---

Leading Change•••BEST OF HBR

information and expertise, reputations, and picture of the future that is relatively easy to

relationships. communicate and appeals to customers, stock-

In both small and large organizations, a suc- holders, and employees. A vision always goes

cessful guiding team may consist of only three beyond the numbers that are typically found

to five people during the first year of a renewal in five-year plans. A vision says something that

effort. But in big companies, the coalition helps clarify the direction in which an organi-

needs to grow to the 20 to 50 range before zation needs to move. Sometimes the first

much progress can be made in phase three and draft comes mostly from a single individual. It

beyond. Senior managers always form the is usually a bit blurry, at least initially. But

core of the group. But sometimes you find after the coalition works at it for three or five

board members, a representative from a key or even 12 months, something much better

customer, or even a powerful union leader. emerges through their tough analytical think-

Because the guiding coalition includes mem- ing and a little dreaming. Eventually, a strat-

bers who are not part of senior management, egy for achieving that vision is also developed.

it tends to operate outside of the normal hier- In one midsize European company, the first

archy by definition. This can be awkward, but pass at a vision contained two-thirds of the

it is clearly necessary. If the existing hierarchy basic ideas that were in the final product. The

were working well, there would be no need for concept of global reach was in the initial ver-

a major transformation. But since the current sion from the beginning. So was the idea of be-

system is not working, reform generally de- coming preeminent in certain businesses. But

mands activity outside of formal boundaries, one central idea in the final version—getting

expectations, and protocol. out of low value-added activities—came only

A high sense of urgency within the manage- after a series of discussions over a period of

If you can’t communicate rial ranks helps enormously in putting a guid- several months.

ing coalition together. But more is usually re- Without a sensible vision, a transformation

the vision to someone in

quired. Someone needs to get these people effort can easily dissolve into a list of confus-

five minutes or less and together, help them develop a shared assess- ing and incompatible projects that can take

ment of their company’s problems and oppor- the organization in the wrong direction or