SOURCE: Leading-Rapid-Change-Guide-Kotter.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of leading change, emphasizing the importance of creating certainty and aligning with the 8-Step Process for Leading Change.
KEYWORDS: leading change, change management, rapid change, 8-step process
---

[Document: Leading-Rapid-Change-Guide-Kotter.txt]

technology that has fundamentally influenced human relationships. There is much to be said about the

reactive nature of change – i.e. we respond to impacts around us because we have to, like Covid-19, but it

is arguably harder (but equally gratifying and rewarding) to lead ourselves and others through change in

the absence of a necessity. Also be careful not to associate necessity with a "negative" or "burning

platform".

How does the Leading Rapid Change framework and 8-Steps model match? Are they to be used

together, or is one taking over the other? by Eckhard

The 8-Step foundation remains key to our framework for leading and managing change. The approach

discussed during the Leading Rapid Change webinar is an approach that should be layered together with

the 8-Step foundation. For instance, the notion of creating more certainty (as we discussed during the

session) is something that can be done with a strong and compelling change vision, then anchored in

specific actions that are then taken. Ultimately we would suggest focusing on the explicit outcomes we

emphasized in the Leading Rapid Change framework, and executing these against the 8-Step Process for

Leading Change.

© Kotter 2020

--- Page 7 ---

LEADING CHANGE

THE FAQ'S TO LEADING RAPID CHANGE

POST LEADING RAPID CHANGE WEBINAR | Q+A CONTINUED

Why do you think that many companies are having a problem achieving the accepted success with

Scrum or SAFe? What are your 3 best tips to make scrum work within a team? by Helle

For years, the central (and well documented) impediments to successfully scaling agile practices or

methods such as SAFe have been change, culture and leadership. Ultimately, an organization can't expect

to implement these new ways of working with speed, fidelity or efficacy without paying equal attention to

adoption, culture, behaviors, the way leaders lead and the overall system in which new ways of working

have now become an expectation. Three tips are: 1) Focus less on process, rituals and terminology and

more on ensuring the work of the team is deeply anchored in the organization's strategy, 2) define success

by MVPs and outcomes for the business (e.g., speed to market) vs. activities that can be executed in

compressed timeframes and 3) ensure that there's clear executive sponsorship in place to help remove

institutional barriers.

What is your take on SAFe? by Helle

SAFe like other agile methods is underpinned by a set of agile principles (think: the Agile Manifesto) that

are vitally important to executing work in new and more agile ways (e.g., iterative development, allowing

time for innovation, cross-functional alignment and planning, parallel process, user-centered design,

etc.). However, we often find that there's a significant divide between IT and the business regarding the

vision for the future and how progress against that vision should be measured. Additionally, we see many

practitioners over indexing on SAFe processes and verbiage at the expense/exclusion of the business.

How can the framework be linked to an Agile way of working? by Oscar

Agile is about adopting a more responsive, iterative and faster approach to arriving at an end solution,

contrasted by the end-to-end, sequential execution of tasks. Three elements that differentiate an agile

approach are: structure (relies on a network of people, task/subject experts, who come together at a certain

point, for a defined period, to collaborate together vs. a hierarchical project team who, often in parallel,

execute their work), responsibility and accountability (leverages distinct strengths from content experts and

process experts who come together to deliver the result vs. a singular project manager who leads the content

and the timeline) and communication (requires frequent communication in the broadest possible terms –

the more people who know where things stand, the faster the team can modify their tasks to keep the effort

on track. Our framework is about emphasizing all of these attributes. From the power of the network (vs.

only a few people) and using a non-hierarchical approach, to building the responsibility and accountability

channels and broadly communicating to share and celebrate not only the progress, but also the

accomplishments and learnings from risks taken and potential failures experienced.

© Kotter 2020

--- Page 8 ---

LEADING CHANGE

THE FAQ'S TO LEADING RAPID CHANGE

POST LEADING RAPID CHANGE WEBINAR | Q+A CONTINUED

x = n(n - 1)

the formula explained

2

What is X and what is N in this formula? by Caroline

X is the maximum number of potential connections between individuals in your

network/organization/team; N is the number of people in the network/organization/team.

Is a higher number better or a lower number? by Gregg

Generally a higher number implies that more people are connected to one another and this

correlates to greater (and potentially faster) information flow, the flow of ideas, the development of

relationships, etc. A higher number also (generally) means that there are more points of connection

than occur in a hierarchy. For a company/organization/team to respond to changes in the

environment around them, you generally want more people who are connected to one another to be

in a position where they can spot threats and opportunities, react fast with/amongst one another

and can collaborate together to solve or address or take advantage of the situation. Generally you

only want a smaller number when you don't want to share an idea, or when you want to keep

something a secret!

Can you share more about the formula? by Helle

An interesting article can be found here and thorough, and detailed technical discussion

Network Science can be found here.

Can you share an example? by Mary

Let's say you have 100 people in your organization/team. In a typical hierarchy, there are few

defined relationships - the manager may have seven supervisors/direct reports, and in turn each

direct report has 12-13 people reporting to them. You can map this out fairly easily and see that there

are a number of 1:1 relationships. Being generous, there may be 13 relationships for each supervisor