SOURCE: Leadership Notes_BB Conference Session.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership and Entrepreneurship
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for turning mistakes and failures into opportunities, maintaining company culture, and hands-on leadership in a retail business.
KEYWORDS: entrepreneurship, failure, company culture, leadership, retail
---

Notes for BB Conference Session

Turn your screw ups into opportunities ~ I learned early on that when you are

pushing the envelope and trying new things, inexperience caused lots of mistakes

and in the early days it took me a while to recover from those.

I learned that every mistake gave me an opportunity to do something that you

wouldn't otherwise risk doing. Think up a few of these - talk to Tracey... For

example:

You always end up ordering something you should ~ it was a good idea at the time

but you end up with massive overstocks. Instead of marking them down you,

finding creative ways to solve the problem which actually turns into new learnings,

ideas promotions and events when you are watching it,.

Use Sam’s rule number 6 ~ Find some humour in your failures, don’t take yourself

seriously, loosen up and everyone else will loosen up. Have fun and show

enthusiasm always.

When all else fails put on a costume and sing a silly song and get everyone else

singing the silly song ~ all of this is more important and fun than you think.

Protect and look after the little guys i.e. those in stores, even more those in the

warehouses -— make sure that perks don’t go to the senior guys, go to the lower guys

1) They appreciate it more; and

2) It is in invaluable and more important than you think i.e. there are no car parks

put aside especially - whatever documents need to be signed at the lower levels

need to be signed at the senior levels, limit the perks where ever possible, make

sure that first prizes are always given to the team, never leave them out of a party,

involve everyone

Use the slide from my interview about deciding on your standards and enforcing

them - no matter what:

“You must have enforceable standards and disciplines. And if you do decide that

standards make sense to the type of store or business you’re operating, then you

have to deliver them no matter what. You can never allow yourself to waver, never

move and don‘t get dragged down to another level.”

Quote from interview with Brett Blundy

Hands on Retailing, Sept/Oct 2001

If you want to be a leader, you have to be there

«If you want to lead an organisation, you have to show up.

= You have to be at the office more than anyone else.

» You have to be in stores more than anyone else.

«Talk with department heads, be there for them, sit at their desk from time to

time —- when they are there and when they are not there.

* In retail stores ~ get out there more often — if you are in another country, be

there, be seen, be looking and thinking.

«How do we do it better? What’s not working as well as it should?

« Walk the warehouse and office every time you are in the office - mix it up -

at different times. Use this time to say hello, learn people’s names, what

they are doing, notice things that are right and thank them for it, notice

things that are wrong and sort it out.

15 minute session - opening - Need to outline where we are going so talk about:

» BBRC retail - a quick summary of each brand

» Entertainment

o Gear

o Digital

o Digital kiosks

= Inglot

o Tapping into the rentless drive of women being women

» Diva

o Continue to submit it’s position in the best fashion, fastest time

"  BNT

o turning itself into a product brand as well as a retail brand

» Macro

* Depending on whether we get a discussion going, maybe we could have

Pierce do a session

«Dusk where it is heading

» What our profits have been, where they are going to be, our productivity

aims, store number aims

« What we collectively stand for, etc.

DRAFT for Opening remarks

Welcome...

You got to this room today and congratulations on being here and the collective

results that we have achieved in what has been an outstanding twelve months.

You got here:

sea

1. Because of your willingness to ve

2. your belief in yourself and your abilities

3. You are prepared to sacrifice a long the way for your own personal success.

BBRC is a decentralized business model — decentralization so we can react to the

market, local and specific issues, we keep more entrepreneurial without behaving

like cowboys but without having a bureaucracy that will stifle - the great aim is to be

centralized whilst being integrated to each other for shared learnings, optimization of

best practices, the only thing that we actually centralize is treasury and control in the

ownership sense.