SOURCE: Leadership is a Conversation.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Communication
SUMMARY: The text discusses Cisco's communication culture, emphasizing the role of inclusive leadership in empowering employees to actively participate in generating content and serving as brand ambassadors.
KEYWORDS: internal communication, employee inclusion, brand ambassadorship, leadership communication, organizational storytelling
---

[Document: Leadership is a Conversation.pdf]

story.” A less interactive form of communication to employees, inclusion focuses on the role that

might have produced such information eventually— employees play in that process. It also extends the

but far less efficiently. practice of interactivity by enabling employees to

At the crux of Cisco’s communication culture is provide their own ideas—often on official company

its CEO, John Chambers, who holds various forums channels—rather than simply parrying the ideas that

to keep in touch with employees. About every other others present. It enables them to serve as frontline

month, for instance, he leads a “birthday chat,” open content providers.

to any Cisco employee whose birthday falls in the In the standard corporate communication model,

relevant two-month period. Senior managers aren’t top executives and professional communicators

invited, lest their presence keep attendees from monopolize the creation of content and keep a tight

speaking openly. Chambers also records a video blog rein on what people write or say on official company

about once a month—a brief, improvisational mes- channels. But when a spirit of inclusion takes hold,

sage delivered by e-mail to all employees. The use of engaged employees can adopt important new roles,

video allows him to speak to his people directly, in- creating content themselves and acting as brand am-

formally, and without a script; it suggests immediacy bassadors, thought leaders, and storytellers.

and builds trust. And despite the inherently one-way Brand ambassadors. When employees feel pas-

nature of a video blog, Chambers and his team have sionate about their company’s products and services,

made it interactive by inviting video messages as they become living representatives of the brand. This

well as text comments from employees. can and does happen organically—lots of people love

what they do for a living and will talk it up on their

inclusion: expanding own time. But some companies actively promote

employees’ roles that kind of behavior. Coca-Cola, for instance, has

At its best, personal conversation is an equal- created a formal ambassadorship program, aimed

opportunity endeavor. It enables participants to at encouraging employees to promote the Coke im-

share ownership of the substance of their discussion. age and product line in speech and in practice. The

As a consequence, they can put their own ideas—and, Coke intranet provides resources such as a tool that

indeed, their hearts and souls—into the conversa- connects employees to company-sponsored volun-

tional arena. Organizational conversation, by the teer activities. The centerpiece of the program is a

same token, calls on employees to participate in gen- list of nine ambassadorial behaviors, which include

erating the content that makes up a company’s story. helping the company “win at the point of sale” (by

Inclusive leaders, by counting employees among a taking it on themselves to tidy store displays in retail

company’s official or quasi-official communicators, outlets, for example), relaying sales leads, and report-

turn those employees into full-fledged conversation ing instances in which a retailer has run out of a Coke

partners. In the process, such leaders raise the level product.

of emotional engagement that employees bring to Thought leaders. To achieve market leadership

company life in general. in a knowledge-based field, companies may rely

Inclusion adds a critical dimension to the ele- on consultants or in-house professionals to draft

ments of intimacy and interactivity. Whereas in- speeches, articles, white papers, and the like. But of-

June 2012 Harvard Business Review 7

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Spotlight on LeadeRsHIp

F

F

or many executives and managers, the

temptation to treat every medium at their

disposal as if it were a megaphone has

proved hard to resist.

ten the most innovative thinking occurs deep within many on public sites, expressing their unfiltered

an organization, where people develop and test new thoughts about life at the company and sharing their

products and services. Empowering those people ideas about technology.

to create and promote thought-leadership material Of course, inclusion means that executives cede

can be a smart, quick way to bolster a company’s a fair amount of control over how the company is

reputation among key industry players. In recent represented to the world. But the fact is that cul-

years Juniper Networks has sponsored initiatives to tural and technological changes have eroded that

get potential thought leaders out of their labs and of- control anyway. Whether you like it or not, anybody

fices and into public venues where industry experts can tarnish (or polish) your company’s reputation

and customers can watch them strut their intellec- right from her cube, merely by e-mailing an internal

tual stuff. The company’s engineers are working on document to a reporter, a blogger, or even a group of

the next wave of systems silicon and hardware and friends—or by posting her thoughts in an online fo-

can offer keen insights into trends. To communicate rum. Thus inclusive leaders are making a virtue out

their perspective to relevant audiences, Juniper dis- of necessity. Scott Huennekens, the CEO of Volcano

patches them to national and international technol- Corporation, suggests that a looser approach to com-

ogy conferences and arranges for them to meet with munication has made organizational life less stifling

customers at company-run briefing centers. and more productive than it used to be. The free

Storytellers. People are accustomed to hearing flow of information creates a freer spirit. Some com-

corporate communication professionals tell stories panies do try to set some basic expectations. Infosys,

about a company, but there’s nothing like hearing a for instance, acknowledging its lack of control over

story direct from the front lines. When employees employees’ participation in social networks, tells

speak from their own experience, unedited, the employees that they may disagree but asks them not

message comes to life. The computer storage giant to be disagreeable.

EMC actively elicits stories from its people. Leaders And quite often, leaders have discovered, a sys-