SOURCE: Leadership Contact Sport.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Leadership Development Programs
SUMMARY: This text analyzes various companies' leadership development programs, including details on program size, international representation, and feedback methods.
KEYWORDS: leadership development, 360-degree feedback, high-potential leaders, coaching, training
---

[Document: Leadership Contact Sport.pdf]

focused on the development of high-potential leaders,

and between 73 and 354 participants were involved in

their programs. The three other companies included

almost all managers (above midlevel), and involved

between 1,528 and 6,748 managers. The degree of inter-

national representation varied among organizations. At

two companies, almost all of the participants were

American. Non-U.S. executives made up almost half of

the participants in one company’s program. The other

five had varying levels of international participation.

Some of the companies used traditional classroom-

based training in their development effort. In each of

these companies, participants would attend an offsite

program and receive instruction on what the desired

characteristics were for leaders in their organizations, Each participant received mini-survey summary

why these characteristics were important, and how feedback from three to 16 co-workers. Colleagues were

participants might better align their own leadership asked to rate the participants’ increased effectiveness in

behavior with the desired model. Some companies, by the specific selected behaviors as well as participants’

contrast, used continuing coaching, a methodology that overall increase (or decrease) in leadership effectiveness.

did not necessarily involve offsite training, but did rely Co-workers were also asked to measure the degree of

on regular interaction with a personal coach. Some com- follow-up they had with the participant. In total, we col-

panies used both offsite training and coaching. lected more than 86,000 mini-survey responses for the

Along with differences, there were commonalities 11,480 managers who participated in leadership

among the programs. Each company had spent exten- development activities. This huge database gave us the

sive time reviewing the challenges it believed its leaders opportunity to explore the points of commonality and

would uniquely face as its business evolved. Each had distinction among these eight very different leadership

developed a profile of desired leadership behaviors that development efforts.

had been approved by upper management. After ensur- Three of the organizations permitted their names to

ing that these desired leadership behaviors were aligned be used in articles or conference presentations, enabling

with the company vision and values, each company us to reference them in this report; the rest have request-

developed a 360-degree feedback process to help leaders ed anonymity, although we are able to describe their sec-

73

understand the extent to which their own behavior (as tor and activities. Two of the organizations also have

perceived by co-workers) matched the desired behavior allowed their results to be published elsewhere, without

for leaders in the corporation. All eight placed a set of disclosure of the organization’s name. The companies

expectations upon participants. The developing leaders whose programs we studied were:

were expected to: • An aerospace/defense contractor: 1,528 managers

• Review their 360-degree feedback with an inter- (ranging from midlevel to the CEO and his team)

nal or external consultant. received training for two and a half days. Each person

• Identify one to three areas for improvement. reviewed his or her 360-degree feedback in person with

• Discuss their areas for improvement with key an outside consultant. All received at least three

co-workers. reminder notes to help ensure that they would follow up

• Ask colleagues for suggestions on how to increase with their co-workers.

effectiveness in selected areas for change. • A financial-services organization: At GE Capital,

• Follow up with co-workers to get ideas for 178 high-potential managers received training that last-

improvement. ed five days. Each leader was assigned a personal human

• Have co-worker respondents complete a confi- resources coach from inside the company. Each coach

dential custom-designed “mini-survey” three to 15 had one-on-one sessions with his or her client on an

months after the start of their programs. ongoing basis (either in person or by phone).

content

management

• An electronics manufacturer: 258 upper-level co-workers in the mini-surveys. The first five firms —

managers received in-person coaching from an external the aerospace/defense contractor, GE Capital, the elec-

coach. They did not attend an offsite training program. tronics manufacturer, the diversified services company,

They were then each assigned an internal coach who had and the media company — used a seven-point scale,

been trained in effective coaching skills. This coach fol- from –3 to +3, to measure perceived change in leader-

lowed up with the managers every three to four months. ship effectiveness, and a five-point scale to plot the

• A diversified services company: 6,748 managers amount of follow-up, ranging from a low of “no follow-

(ranging from midlevel to the CEO and his team) up” to a high of “consistent or periodic follow-up.”

received one-on-one feedback from an external coach They then compared the two sets of measurements by

during two training programs, each two and a half days plotting the effectiveness scores and the follow-up tallies

long, which were conducted 15 months apart. Although on charts.

there was no formal follow-up provided by the coach, The remaining three firms used slightly different

participants knew they were going to be measured on measurement criteria. The telecommunications compa-

their follow-up efforts. ny used a “percentage improvement” scale to measure

• A media company: 354 managers (including the perceived increases in leadership effectiveness, as judged

CEO and his team) received one-on-one coaching and by co-workers. It then compared “percentage improve-

feedback during a one-day program. An external coach ment” on leadership effectiveness with each level of

provided follow-up coaching every three to four follow-up. Johnson & Johnson and Agilent measured

months. leadership improvement using the same seven-point

• A telecommunications company: 281 managers scale employed by the first five companies, but they did

(including the CEO and his team) received training not categorize the degree of follow-up beyond the sim-

for one day. Each leader was given an external coach, ple “followed up” vs. “did not follow up.”

who had continuing one-on-one sessions with his or As noted earlier, follow-uphere refers to efforts that

her client. leaders make to solicit continuing and updated ideas for

• A pharmaceutical/health-care organization: John- improvement from their co-workers. In the two compa-