SOURCE: Leading_Change.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: Successful organizational transformation requires communication, commitment, and removing obstacles to the new vision.
KEYWORDS: organizational change, communication, employee engagement, vision, obstacles
---

[Document: Leading_Change.txt]

cal to the vision. The net result is that cynicism ing about customers will not suddenly behave

among the troops goes up, while belief in the in a customer-oriented way. But I have wit-

communication goes down. nessed just such a person change, and change a

Transformation is impossible unless hun- great deal. In that case, a high level of urgency

dreds or thousands of people are willing to helped. The fact that the man was a part of the

help, often to the point of making short-term guiding coalition and the vision-creation team

sacrifices. Employees will not make sacrifices, also helped. So did all the communication,

even if they are unhappy with the status quo, which kept reminding him of the desired be-

unless they believe that useful change is possi- havior, and all the feedback from his peers and

ble. Without credible communication, and a subordinates, which helped him see when he

lot of it, the hearts and minds of the troops are was not engaging in that behavior.

never captured. Communication comes in both words and

This fourth phase is particularly challenging deeds, and the latter are often the most power-

if the short-term sacrifices include job losses. ful form. Nothing undermines change more

Gaining understanding and support is tough than behavior by important individuals that is

when downsizing is a part of the vision. For inconsistent with their words.

this reason, successful visions usually include

new growth possibilities and the commitment Error 5: Not Removing Obstacles to

to treat fairly anyone who is laid off. the New Vision

Executives who communicate well incorpo- Successful transformations begin to involve

rate messages into their hour-by-hour activi- large numbers of people as the process

ties. In a routine discussion about a business progresses. Employees are emboldened to try

problem, they talk about how proposed solu- new approaches, to develop new ideas, and to

tions fit (or don’t fit) into the bigger picture. In provide leadership. The only constraint is that

a regular performance appraisal, they talk the actions fit within the broad parameters of

harvard business review • january 2007 page 6

--- Page 8 ---

Leading Change•••BEST OF HBR

the overall vision. The more people involved, In the first half of a transformation, no orga-

the better the outcome. nization has the momentum, power, or time to

To some degree, a guiding coalition empow- get rid of all obstacles. But the big ones must

ers others to take action simply by successfully be confronted and removed. If the blocker is a

communicating the new direction. But com- person, it is important that he or she be

munication is never sufficient by itself. Re- treated fairly and in a way that is consistent

newal also requires the removal of obstacles. with the new vision. Action is essential, both

Too often, an employee understands the new to empower others and to maintain the credi-

vision and wants to help make it happen, but bility of the change effort as a whole.

an elephant appears to be blocking the path.

In some cases, the elephant is in the person’s Error 6: Not Systematically Planning

head, and the challenge is to convince the indi- for, and Creating, Short-Term Wins

vidual that no external obstacle exists. But in Real transformation takes time, and a renewal

most cases, the blockers are very real. effort risks losing momentum if there are no

Sometimes the obstacle is the organizational short-term goals to meet and celebrate. Most

structure: Narrow job categories can seriously people won’t go on the long march unless they

undermine efforts to increase productivity see compelling evidence in 12 to 24 months

or make it very difficult even to think that the journey is producing expected results.

about customers. Sometimes compensation Without short-term wins, too many people

or performance-appraisal systems make peo- give up or actively join the ranks of those peo-

ple choose between the new vision and their ple who have been resisting change.

own self-interest. Perhaps worst of all are bosses One to two years into a successful transfor-

who refuse to change and who make demands mation effort, you find quality beginning to go

that are inconsistent with the overall effort. up on certain indices or the decline in net in-

One company began its transformation pro- come stopping. You find some successful new

cess with much publicity and actually made product introductions or an upward shift in

good progress through the fourth phase. Then market share. You find an impressive produc-

the change effort ground to a halt because the tivity improvement or a statistically higher cus-

officer in charge of the company’s largest divi- tomer satisfaction rating. But whatever the

sion was allowed to undermine most of the case, the win is unambiguous. The result is not

new initiatives. He paid lip service to the pro- just a judgment call that can be discounted by

cess but did not change his behavior or encour- those opposing change.

age his managers to change. He did not reward Creating short-term wins is different from

the unconventional ideas called for in the vi- hoping for short-term wins. The latter is pas-

sion. He allowed human resource systems to sive, the former active. In a successful transfor-

remain intact even when they were clearly in- mation, managers actively look for ways to ob-

consistent with the new ideals. I think the of- tain clear performance improvements, establish

ficer’s motives were complex. To some degree, goals in the yearly planning system, achieve

he did not believe the company needed major the objectives, and reward the people involved

change. To some degree, he felt personally threat- with recognition, promotions, and even money.

ened by all the change. To some degree, he was For example, the guiding coalition at a U.S.

afraid that he could not produce both change manufacturing company produced a highly

and the expected operating profit. But despite visible and successful new product introduc-