SOURCE: Leadership is a Conversation.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Employee Communication and Engagement
SUMMARY: The text discusses how successful companies encourage employee-driven communication and engagement to improve business performance and culture.
KEYWORDS: employee communication, organizational culture, self-regulation, employee-generated content, leadership
---

[Document: Leadership is a Conversation.pdf]

corporate communication professionals tell stories panies do try to set some basic expectations. Infosys,

about a company, but there’s nothing like hearing a for instance, acknowledging its lack of control over

story direct from the front lines. When employees employees’ participation in social networks, tells

speak from their own experience, unedited, the employees that they may disagree but asks them not

message comes to life. The computer storage giant to be disagreeable.

EMC actively elicits stories from its people. Leaders And quite often, leaders have discovered, a sys-

look to them for ideas on how to improve business tem of self-regulation by employees fills the void

performance and for thoughts about the company left by top-down control. Somebody comes out with

itself. The point is to instill the notion that ideas are an outrageous statement, the community responds,

welcome from all corners. As just one example, in and the overall sentiment swings back to the middle.

2009 the company published The Working Mother

Experience—a 250-page coffee-table book written intentionality: pursuing an agenda

by and for EMCers on the topic of being both a suc- A personal conversation, if it’s truly rich and reward-

cessful EMC employee and a parent. The project, ini- ing, will be open but not aimless; the participants

tiated at the front lines, was championed by Frank will have some sense of what they hope to achieve.

Hauck, then the executive vice president of global They might seek to entertain each other, or to per-

marketing and customer quality. It’s not unusual for suade each other, or to learn from each other. In the

a big company like EMC to produce such a book as a absence of such intent, a conversation will either

vanity project, but this was no corporate communi- meander or run into a blind alley. Intent confers

cation effort; it was a peer-driven endeavor, led by order and meaning on even the loosest and most

employees. Several dozen EMCers also write blogs, digressive forms of chatter. That principle applies

8 Harvard Business Review June 2012

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

For arTicle reprinTs call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500, or visiT hBr.org

Elements of Organizational Conversation

Intimacy Interactivity Inclusion Intentionality

How leaders relate How leaders use How leaders develop How leaders convey

to employees communication channels organizational content strategy

Old Model: Corporate Communication

Information flow is primarily Messages are broadcast to Top executives create and Communication is

top-down employees control messaging fragmented, reactive, and

ad hoc

Tone is formal and corporate Print newsletters, memos, Employees are passive

and speeches predominate consumers of information Leaders use assertion to

achieve strategic alignment

New Model: Organizational Communication

Communication is personal Leaders talk with employ- Leaders relinquish a mea- A clear agenda informs

and direct ees, not to them sure of control over content all communication

Leaders value trust and Organizational culture Employees actively Leaders carefully

authenticity fosters back-and-forth, participate in organizational explain the agenda to

face-to-face interaction messaging employees

Strategy emerges from

a cross-organizational

conversation

What It Means for Employers and Employees

Leaders emphasize listening Leaders use video and social Leaders involve employees Leaders build their

to employees rather than media tools to facilitate in telling the company story messaging around company

just speaking to them two-way communication strategy

Employees act as brand

Employees engage in a Employees interact with ambassadors and thought Employees take part in

bottom-up exchange of colleagues through blogs leaders creating strategy via

ideas and discussion forums specially designed

communication vehicles

to organizational conversation, too. Over time, the ployees to derive strategically relevant action from

many voices that contribute to the process of com- the push and pull of discussion and debate.

munication within a company must converge on a Conversational intentionality requires leaders

single vision of what that communication is for. To to convey strategic principles not just by asserting

put it another way: The conversation that unfolds them but by explaining them—by generating con-

within a company should reflect a shared agenda sent rather than commanding assent. In this new

that aligns with the company’s strategic objectives. model, leaders speak extensively and explicitly with

Intentionality differs from the other three ele- employees about the vision and the logic that un-

ments of organizational conversation in one key re- derlie executive decision making. As a result, people

spect. While intimacy, interactivity, and inclusion all at every level gain a big-picture view of where their

serve to open up the flow of information and ideas company stands within its competitive environment.

within a company, intentionality brings a measure In short, they become conversant in matters of orga-

of closure to that process: It enables leaders and em- nizational strategy.

June 2012 Harvard Business Review 9

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Spotlight on LeadeRsHIp

One way to help employees understand the com- stalls, ready to give a spiel about a business practice

pany’s governing strategy is to let them have a part developed by people in his or her part of the King-

in creating it. The leadership team at Infosys has fisher organization. Essentially they were purveyors

taken to including a broad range of employees in of ideas.

the company’s annual strategy-development pro- Another group—executive committee members—

cess. In late 2009, as Infosys leaders began to build served as facilitators, ambling through the aisles

an organizational strategy for the 2011 fiscal year, and providing words of encouragement. The third

they invited people from every rank and division and largest group acted as buyers, moving from one

of the company to join in. In particular, explains stall to the next, examining the “merchandise,” and

Kris Gopalakrishnan, a cofounder and executive occasionally “purchasing” one of the ideas. Using

cochairman, they asked employees to submit ideas special checkbooks issued for this purpose, buyers