SOURCE: Leading_Change.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges and strategies in leading a successful change effort within an organization.
KEYWORDS: change management, short-term wins, renewal effort, transformation vision
---

[Document: Leading_Change.txt]

ficer’s motives were complex. To some degree, goals in the yearly planning system, achieve

he did not believe the company needed major the objectives, and reward the people involved

change. To some degree, he felt personally threat- with recognition, promotions, and even money.

ened by all the change. To some degree, he was For example, the guiding coalition at a U.S.

afraid that he could not produce both change manufacturing company produced a highly

and the expected operating profit. But despite visible and successful new product introduc-

the fact that they backed the renewal effort, tion about 20 months after the start of its re-

the other officers did virtually nothing to stop newal effort. The new product was selected

the one blocker. Again, the reasons were com- about six months into the effort because it met

plex. The company had no history of confront- multiple criteria: It could be designed and

ing problems like this. Some people were afraid launched in a relatively short period, it could

of the officer. The CEO was concerned that he be handled by a small team of people who

might lose a talented executive. The net result were devoted to the new vision, it had upside

was disastrous. Lower-level managers concluded potential, and the new product-development

that senior management had lied to them team could operate outside the established de-

about their commitment to renewal, cynicism partmental structure without practical prob-

grew, and the whole effort collapsed. lems. Little was left to chance, and the win

harvard business review • january 2007 page 7

--- Page 9 ---

Leading Change•••BEST OF HBR

boosted the credibility of the renewal process. Instead of declaring victory, leaders of suc-

Managers often complain about being forced cessful efforts use the credibility afforded by

to produce short-term wins, but I’ve found that short-term wins to tackle even bigger prob-

pressure can be a useful element in a change lems. They go after systems and structures that

effort. When it becomes clear to people that are not consistent with the transformation vi-

major change will take a long time, urgency sion and have not been confronted before.

levels can drop. Commitments to produce They pay great attention to who is promoted,

short-term wins help keep the urgency level up who is hired, and how people are developed.

and force detailed analytical thinking that can They include new reengineering projects that

clarify or revise visions. are even bigger in scope than the initial ones.

They understand that renewal efforts take not

Error 7: Declaring Victory Too Soon months but years. In fact, in one of the most

After a few years of hard work, managers may successful transformations that I have ever

be tempted to declare victory with the first seen, we quantified the amount of change that

clear performance improvement. While cele- occurred each year over a seven-year period.

brating a win is fine, declaring the war won On a scale of one (low) to ten (high), year one

can be catastrophic. Until changes sink deeply received a two, year two a four, year three a

into a company’s culture, a process that can three, year four a seven, year five an eight, year

take five to ten years, new approaches are frag- six a four, and year seven a two. The peak came

ile and subject to regression. in year five, fully 36 months after the first set

In the recent past, I have watched a dozen of visible wins.

change efforts operate under the reengineer-

ing theme. In all but two cases, victory was de- Error 8: Not Anchoring Changes in

After a few years of hard clared and the expensive consultants were paid the Corporation’s Culture

and thanked when the first major project was In the final analysis, change sticks when it be-

work, managers may be

completed after two to three years. Within two comes “the way we do things around here,”

tempted to declare more years, the useful changes that had been when it seeps into the bloodstream of the cor-

introduced slowly disappeared. In two of the porate body. Until new behaviors are rooted in

victory with the first ten cases, it’s hard to find any trace of the re- social norms and shared values, they are sub-

engineering work today. ject to degradation as soon as the pressure for

clear performance

Over the past 20 years, I’ve seen the same change is removed.

improvement. While sort of thing happen to huge quality projects, Two factors are particularly important in in-

organizational development efforts, and more. stitutionalizing change in corporate culture.

celebrating a win is fine,

Typically, the problems start early in the pro- The first is a conscious attempt to show people

declaring the war won cess: The urgency level is not intense enough, how the new approaches, behaviors, and atti-

the guiding coalition is not powerful enough, tudes have helped improve performance.

can be catastrophic.

and the vision is not clear enough. But it is the When people are left on their own to make

premature victory celebration that kills mo- the connections, they sometimes create very

mentum. And then the powerful forces associ- inaccurate links. For example, because results

ated with tradition take over. improved while charismatic Harry was boss,

Ironically, it is often a combination of change the troops link his mostly idiosyncratic style

initiators and change resistors that creates the with those results instead of seeing how their

premature victory celebration. In their enthu- own improved customer service and productiv-

siasm over a clear sign of progress, the initia- ity were instrumental. Helping people see the

tors go overboard. They are then joined by re- right connections requires communication. In-

sistors, who are quick to spot any opportunity deed, one company was relentless, and it paid

to stop change. After the celebration is over, off enormously. Time was spent at every major

the resistors point to the victory as a sign that management meeting to discuss why perfor-