SOURCE: Leading Change Model.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: A classic framework for leading organizational change, including creating urgency, forming a team, communicating the vision, empowering others, and consolidating improvements.
KEYWORDS: change management, organizational transformation, Kotter's model, leadership, employee engagement
---

Leading Change Model

v

[ Communicate the Vision ]

v

Empower Others to Act on the Vision |

v

Define, Plan for and Create Short-Term Success J

From Kotter, J. “Leading Change: Why Transformation Efforts Fail,” Harvard Business Review, 1995 & 2007.

Leading Change: A Classic Framework

e Phase One: Getting Started

1. Create a sense of urgency

2. Form a powerful guiding coalition

3. Create a vision

e Phase Two: Involving Everyone

4. Communicate the vision broadly, in a variety of ways

_S. Empower others to take action that helps achieve the vision

6. Define, plan for, and measure short term success

e Phase Three: Institutionalizing New Ways of Working.

7. Consolidate Improvements and Produce Still More Change

8. Institutionalize new approaches in the culture

Basic Model

_Unfreezing --- Change -- Refreezing

Adapled fern conn Po Moher ‘Leading Change: wh

Underlying Assumptions —

of Classic Change Management

: lv] We know today what will be needed to be successful

tomorrow..

lv] We can develop a plan with realistic targets and

: deadlines iCe) get us there...

s is primarily a matter of

The Nature of Change

Change as a disciplined managerial exercise --

— Taking stock of the situation — mix of planning &learning

— Extensive planning -

— Extensive communication _

Change as an emotional C

— People resist change, are

_ changing is uncomfortable nvolves Forse Mecdaarient that

what youre elremly doing S wrong, or Deis a

- Coming up ini solutions i both creative and analytical work

- People | fear loss of respec and need psychological safety

Challenging Change Management Assumptions

e We know today what will be

needed to be successful

tomorrow.

e We can develop a plan with

realistic targets and deadlines

to ee us there. >

e We can make an educated guess

today about what will be needed to

_be successful tomorrow.

~e We can experiment to reduce

certainty. as we move forward,

owing us to update interim goals

and Nes as time goes on.

Implementing an ehective”

arning process is primarily a

atter of eo employes fear.

Leading Ore aieational ieaming

| ow Process Knowledge) :

Siemens Sustainability Program

Modifying the Change Framework

e Phase One: Getting Started

1. Create a sense of urgency ©

2. Enroll allies — form a team of of change agents

3. Articulate a vision :

e Phase Two: involving Every

: 1 broadly, in a variety of ways

_ 5. Engage others to take action to test, revise & implement vision

| an elebrate small wins

Classic Change Management

Top Down

Change as A Learning Process

Collaborative

Centralized

Decentralized

Structured

Messy

Easily-measured progress

Difficult to measure progress

Results fast

Results slow

Results measurable

Results difficult to measure

Works for well-understood activities

Works for novel/innovation activities

The leader’s job

Direction

Build shared understanding about an important

performance or opportunity gap

=

Environment

Build psychological safety for experimentating and

learning

+

Process

Empower and support a team-based infrastructure for

experimentation and improvement

Explicit Assumptions Held by Leaders

Promoting Organizational Learning

e We can make an educated guess today about

the best plan for tomorrow.

e We have to experiment to reduce uncertainty

as we move forward, and we will learn more

about both our goals and our processes as

time goes on.

e Creating an effective learning process is

primarily a matter of reducing employee fear...

Keep in mind...

Classic Change Management advice falls short in highly dynamic

contexts

— Yesterday's plans are quigidly outdated

— Encouraging effort isn’t enough. Reducing fear is Key:

~ Organizational learning providgs a path forward...

Organizations ‘learn’ whe constituent teams learn

Teams learn through an iterative and reflective process

generating ideas, tryin hings out, reflecting on their

actions, suggesting changes, and trying again..

¢ This. requires psychological safety

together with a compelling purpose for change

: This rarely happens spontaneously...

, it takes eaeersip