SOURCE: Leadership is a Conversation.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Leadership Communication
SUMMARY: The new realities of leadership communication driven by economic and organizational changes, requiring more sophisticated information processing and sharing, and promoting dialogue and interactivity between leaders and employees.
KEYWORDS: Leadership, Communication, Organizational Change, Interactivity, Dialogue
---

[Document: Leadership is a Conversation.pdf]

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

gnoRTsmRa

knaRf

:yHpaRgoToHp

Spotlight on LeadeRsHIp

The new Realities of Leadership Communication

five long-term business trends are eConoMiC ORGanizatiOnal

Change cHanGe

forcing the shift from corporate

As service industries have As companies have become

communication to organizational

become more economically flatter and less hierarchical,

conversation. significant than manufacturing and frontline employees more

industries, and as knowledge pivotally involved in value-

work has supplanted other creating work, lateral and

kinds of labor, the need for bottom-up communication

sophisticated ways to process has achieved the importance

and share information has of top-down communication.

grown more acute.

feel that [way] around me.” Such unadorned stories megaphone has proved hard to resist. In some com-

make a strong impression on employees. panies, however, leaders have fostered a genuinely

interactive culture—values, norms, and behaviors

interactivity: promoting dialogue that create a welcoming space for dialogue.

A personal conversation, by definition, involves an To see how interactivity works, consider Cisco

exchange of comments and questions between two Systems. As it happens, Cisco makes and sells vari-

or more people. The sound of one person talking is ous products that fall under the social technology

not, obviously, a conversation. The same applies to umbrella. In using them internally, its people have

organizational conversation, in which leaders talk explored the benefits of enabling high-quality back-

with employees and not just to them. This interac- and-forth communication. One such product, Tele-

tivity makes the conversation open and fluid rather Presence, simulates an in-person meeting by beam-

than closed and directive. It entails shunning the ing video feeds between locations. Multiple large

simplicity of monologue and embracing the unpre- screens create a wraparound effect, and specially

dictable vitality of dialogue. The pursuit of interactiv- designed meeting tables (in an ideal configuration)

ity reinforces, and builds upon, intimacy: Efforts to mirror one another so that users feel as if they were

close gaps between employees and their leaders will seated at the same piece of furniture. In one sense

founder if employees don’t have both the tools and this is a more robust version of a web-based video

the institutional support they need to speak up and chat, with none of the delays or hiccups that typically

(where appropriate) talk back. mar online video. More important, it masters the crit-

In part, a shift toward greater interactivity reflects ical issue of visual scale. When Cisco engineers stud-

a shift in the use of communication channels. For ied remote interactions, they found that if the on-

decades, technology made it difficult or impossible screen image of a person is less than 80% of his or her

to support interaction within organizations of any true size, those who see the image are less engaged in

appreciable size. The media that companies used talking with that person. Tele Presence participants

to achieve scale and efficiency in their communica- appear life-size and can look one another in the eye.

tions—print and broadcast, in particular—operated TelePresence is a sophisticated technology tool,

in one direction only. But new channels have dis- but what it enables is the recovery of immediate,

rupted that one-way structure. Social technology spontaneous give-and-take. Randy Pond, Cisco’s ex-

gives leaders and their employees the ability to invest ecutive vice president of operations, processes, and

an organizational setting with the style and spirit of systems, thinks this type of interaction offers the

personal conversation. benefit of the “whole” conversation—a concept he

Yet interactivity isn’t just a matter of finding and illustrated for us with an anecdote. Sitting at his desk

deploying the right technology. Equally if not more for a video conference one day, he could see video

important is the need to buttress social media with feeds of several colleagues on his computer screen

social thinking. Too often, an organization’s prevail- when he made a comment to the group and a partici-

ing culture works against any attempt to transform pant “just put his head in his hands”—presumably in

corporate communication into a two-way affair. For dismay, and presumably not considering that Pond

many executives and managers, the temptation to could see him. “I said, ‘I can see you,’” Pond told us.

treat every medium at their disposal as if it were a “‘If you disagree, tell me.’” Pond was then able to en-

6 Harvard Business Review June 2012

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

For arTicle reprinTs call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500, or visiT hBr.org

The new Realities of Leadership Communication

GlOBal GeneRatiOnal tecHnOlOGical

cHanGe cHanGe cHanGe

As workforces have become As millennials and other As digital networks have made

more diverse and more widely younger workers have gained instant connectivity a norm

dispersed, navigating across a foothold in organizations, of business life, and as social

cultural and geographic lines they have expected peers media platforms have grown

has required interactions that and authority figures alike to more powerful and more ubiq-

are fluid and complex. communicate with them in a uitous, a reliance on older,

dynamic, two-way fashion. less conversational channels

of communication has ceased

to be tenable.

gage with his skeptical colleague to get the “whole timacy involves the efforts of leaders to get closer

story.” A less interactive form of communication to employees, inclusion focuses on the role that

might have produced such information eventually— employees play in that process. It also extends the

but far less efficiently. practice of interactivity by enabling employees to

At the crux of Cisco’s communication culture is provide their own ideas—often on official company

its CEO, John Chambers, who holds various forums channels—rather than simply parrying the ideas that

to keep in touch with employees. About every other others present. It enables them to serve as frontline