SOURCE: Leading_Change.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Leading Organizational Change
SUMMARY: The text discusses the key factors and common mistakes in leading successful organizational change efforts to cope with new market challenges.
KEYWORDS: organizational change, change management, leadership, urgency, culture change
---

[Document: Leading_Change.txt]

cess factors—from establishing a sense of ex- goal has been the same: to make fundamental

traordinary urgency, to creating short-term changes in how business is conducted in order

wins, to changing the culture (“the way we do to help cope with a new, more challenging

things around here”). It will feel familiar when market environment.

you read it, in part because Kotter’s vocabulary A few of these corporate change efforts have

has entered the lexicon and in part because it been very successful. A few have been utter

contains the kind of home truths that we recog- failures. Most fall somewhere in between, with

nize, immediately, as if we’d always known a distinct tilt toward the lower end of the scale.

them. A decade later, his work on leading The lessons that can be drawn are interesting

change remains definitive. and will probably be relevant to even more or-

harvard business review • january 2007 page 2

.DEVRESER

STHGIR

LLA

.NOITAROPROC

GNIHSILBUP

LOOHCS

SSENISUB

DRAVRAH

6002

©

THGIRYPOC

--- Page 4 ---

Leading Change•••BEST OF HBR

ganizations in the increasingly competitive A paralyzed senior management often comes

business environment of the coming decade. from having too many managers and not

The most general lesson to be learned from enough leaders. Management’s mandate is to

the more successful cases is that the change minimize risk and to keep the current system

process goes through a series of phases that, in operating. Change, by definition, requires cre-

total, usually require a considerable length of ating a new system, which in turn always de-

time. Skipping steps creates only the illusion of mands leadership. Phase one in a renewal

speed and never produces a satisfying result. A process typically goes nowhere until enough

second very general lesson is that critical mis- real leaders are promoted or hired into senior-

takes in any of the phases can have a devastat- level jobs.

ing impact, slowing momentum and negating Transformations often begin, and begin

hard-won gains. Perhaps because we have rela- well, when an organization has a new head

tively little experience in renewing organiza- who is a good leader and who sees the need for

tions, even very capable people often make at a major change. If the renewal target is the en-

least one big error. tire company, the CEO is key. If change is

needed in a division, the division general man-

Error 1: Not Establishing a Great ager is key. When these individuals are not new

Enough Sense of Urgency leaders, great leaders, or change champions,

Most successful change efforts begin when phase one can be a huge challenge.

some individuals or some groups start to look Bad business results are both a blessing and

hard at a company’s competitive situation, a curse in the first phase. On the positive side,

market position, technological trends, and fi- losing money does catch people’s attention.

nancial performance. They focus on the po- But it also gives less maneuvering room. With

tential revenue drop when an important good business results, the opposite is true: Con-

patent expires, the five-year trend in declining vincing people of the need for change is much

margins in a core business, or an emerging harder, but you have more resources to help

market that everyone seems to be ignoring. make changes.

They then find ways to communicate this in- But whether the starting point is good per-

formation broadly and dramatically, especially formance or bad, in the more successful cases I

with respect to crises, potential crises, or great have witnessed, an individual or a group al-

opportunities that are very timely. This first ways facilitates a frank discussion of poten-

step is essential because just getting a transfor- tially unpleasant facts about new competition,

mation program started requires the aggres- shrinking margins, decreasing market share,

sive cooperation of many individuals. Without flat earnings, a lack of revenue growth, or

motivation, people won’t help, and the effort other relevant indices of a declining competi-

goes nowhere. tive position. Because there seems to be an al-

Compared with other steps in the change most universal human tendency to shoot the

process, phase one can sound easy. It is not. bearer of bad news, especially if the head of

Well over 50% of the companies I have the organization is not a change champion, ex-

watched fail in this first phase. What are the ecutives in these companies often rely on out-

reasons for that failure? Sometimes executives siders to bring unwanted information. Wall

underestimate how hard it can be to drive peo- Street analysts, customers, and consultants can

ple out of their comfort zones. Sometimes they all be helpful in this regard. The purpose of all

grossly overestimate how successful they have this activity, in the words of one former CEO of

already been in increasing urgency. Sometimes a large European company, is “to make the sta-

they lack patience: “Enough with the prelimi- tus quo seem more dangerous than launching

naries; let’s get on with it.” In many cases, exec- into the unknown.”

utives become paralyzed by the downside pos- In a few of the most successful cases, a group

sibilities. They worry that employees with has manufactured a crisis. One CEO deliber-

seniority will become defensive, that morale ately engineered the largest accounting loss in

Now retired, John P. Kotter was the will drop, that events will spin out of control, the company’s history, creating huge pressures

Konosuke Matsushita Professor of that short-term business results will be jeopar- from Wall Street in the process. One division

Leadership at Harvard Business School dized, that the stock will sink, and that they president commissioned first-ever customer

in Boston. will be blamed for creating a crisis. satisfaction surveys, knowing full well that the

harvard business review • january 2007 page 3

--- Page 5 ---

Leading Change•••BEST OF HBR

results would be terrible. He then made these formation efforts, the leadership coalition