SOURCE: Leading-Rapid-Change-Guide-Kotter.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for leading rapid organizational change, including building a change network, creating short-term wins, and starting with a clear 'why' to drive momentum.
KEYWORDS: change management, organizational transformation, short-term wins, network-building, leading change
---

[Document: Leading-Rapid-Change-Guide-Kotter.txt]

transformation effort, as well as progress further along in the journey. We also look to Step 6 of Dr.

Kotter's 8-Step Process for Leading Change – generate short-term wins. Tracking the wins that are

shared and celebrated, particularly in aggregate, provides a dashboard-type of view of all that has been

accomplished within a change effort: behaviors that have changed, innovations that have scaled from one

site to many, new ways of working that are being demonstrated. How these wins are collected and shared

varies from organization to organization, but they become proof points of progress. In turn, they help

continue to fuel momentum and build the belief that change is taking shape in this work we're doing.

They help motivate people to press on.

How do you create a network - organic or prescriptive? Is it static and used for multiple

projects? by Amber

We have seen network-building take several forms in our consulting practice. Variation is often driven

by the size of the organization or the change population, the numbers of languages and cultures

represented across those populations, organizational norms to date, and the like. The constants are that

the network include a diagonal slice of the organization. This means that it represents individuals across

all levels of the hierarchy and functional areas to represent as many voices as possible –including those

representing parts of the organization that are are sometimes underseen.

What are some creative ways to lead in a virtual environment? by Amy

We've written about this very timely topic here.

© Kotter 2020

--- Page 5 ---

LEADING CHANGE

THE FAQ'S TO LEADING RAPID CHANGE

POST LEADING RAPID CHANGE WEBINAR | Q+A CONTINUED

How does the leadership approach "It starts with WHY" help enable leading rapid change? by Bob

Starting with "why" or developing a Big Opportunity, as we call it, underscores all that happens next. If

we have one clear articulation of what we aspire to achieve together – and we hold that up when making

decisions about strategic priorities or how time gets spent or... – we're more likely to be rowing in the

same direction. It's very easy for priorities to compete and cannibalize one another when the reason

we're urgent to change isn't clear and explicit in every single mind. The work we do to help drive that

change will of course vary given our departments, rolls and responsibilities, but the Big Opportunity

that's before us – what we have the opportunity to pursue right now – should be clear and consistent.

What do think about the leadership of every individual? by Helle

Dr. Kotter has long said that the world needs to see more leadership from more people. It's individual acts

of leadership, executed by many, many people, that aggregate to momentum-fueled networks that keep

change moving forward. Moreover, it's also individual leadership actions that help the new ways of

working and changed behaviors stick. Over time, the change becomes institutionalized into the

organization's culture.

Someone said using the word change is not a good idea. What do you think? Is there another word we

can use for change, or do we need to say change? by Perry

Know your organization. For some organizations we've worked in, change has been almost a taboo word,

carrying a lot of baggage of previous failed efforts and under-delivered results. In still other

organizations it's the word transformation that's problematic. We know this: words matter. Use the term

that you believe carries the least negative connotation within your context. As Dr. Kotter wrote about in

Our Iceberg is Melting, there will always be No-No characters who resist whatever is set forth, on

principle. Your work is less to change their minds, but to bring a critical mass of people along.

Many business leaders refer to "managing change". Based on your experience, how would you define

"leading change" as different than managing change? by Bob

We have a Forbes blog and video about this topic here.

© Kotter 2020

--- Page 6 ---

LEADING CHANGE

THE FAQ'S TO LEADING RAPID CHANGE

POST LEADING RAPID CHANGE WEBINAR | Q+A CONTINUED

I’m critical of the idea that managers are a primary driving force. You mention the insights of

employees. Wouldn’t these also be vital to create changes in a company? by Joakim

Absolutely agreed. However employees – whose voices are so important and who are have insights from

customers and potentially competitors - will never have their voices heard if their managers do not

invite them into the conversation. From our experience, we have found that it isn't the lack of insights

that precludes organizations from making progress; rather it is the degree to which managers invite and

involve employees in the discussion. Where this does happen there is much more openness, sharing of

ideas and innovation.

Don't we need a sense of necessity also to adapt to change? by Oscar

This is an interesting discussion and I think it is important to define "necessity". I would suggest that

human endeavor has been driven partly owing to need (necessity) and partly owing to a desire to have an

impact in the world that is greater than any need. For instance, no-one "needed" to explore the

atmosphere beyond the earth, however it is our desire to advance that sent a person to the moon. We did

not "need" Facebook, but the desire and opportunity to connect the world drove us to adopt new

technology that has fundamentally influenced human relationships. There is much to be said about the

reactive nature of change – i.e. we respond to impacts around us because we have to, like Covid-19, but it

is arguably harder (but equally gratifying and rewarding) to lead ourselves and others through change in

the absence of a necessity. Also be careful not to associate necessity with a "negative" or "burning

platform".

How does the Leading Rapid Change framework and 8-Steps model match? Are they to be used

together, or is one taking over the other? by Eckhard