SOURCE: Leadership is a Conversation.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Leadership Communication
SUMMARY: This text discusses how leaders can improve employee engagement and alignment in flatter, more networked organizations through a conversational approach to communication.
KEYWORDS: leadership, communication, employee engagement, organizational structure, networking
---

[Document: Leadership is a Conversation.pdf]

June 2012

HBR.ORG

reprinT r1206D

Spotlight on leaderShip

Leadership Is

A Conversation

how to improve employee engagement and

alignment in today’s flatter, more networked

organizations by Boris Groysberg and Michael Slind

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Spotlight on LeadeRsHIp

Spotlight artwork adam ekberg

Arrangement #1, 2009

Ink-jet print

Leadership Is a

Conversation

how to improve employee engagement

and alignment in today’s flatter,

more networked organizations

by Boris Groysberg and Michael Slind

2 Harvard Business Review June 2012

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

For arTicle reprinTs call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500, or visiT hBr.org

Boris groysberg is a professor

of business administration

at Harvard Business school.

Michael Slind is a writer, editor,

and communication consultant.

They are the coauthors of

Talk, Inc.: How Trusted Leaders

Use Conversation to Power

Their Organizations (Harvard

Business Review press, 2012).

T

T

he command-and-control

approach to management

has in recent years become

less and less viable. Global-

ization, new technologies, and

changes in how companies cre-

ate value and interact with cus-

tomers have sharply reduced the

efficacy of a purely directive, top-

down model of leadership. What will take the place

of that model? Part of the answer lies in how leaders

manage communication within their organizations—

that is, how they handle the flow of information to,

from, and among their employees. Traditional cor-

porate communication must give way to a process

that is more dynamic and more sophisticated. Most

important, that process must be conversational.

We arrived at that conclusion while conduct-

ing a recent research project that focused on the

state of organizational communication in the 21st

century. Over more than two years we interviewed

professional communicators as well as top leaders

CopyRIgHT © 2012 HaRvaRd BusIness sCHooL puBLIsHIng CoRpoRaTIon. aLL RIgHTs ReseRved. June 2012 Harvard Business Review 3

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Spotlight on LeadeRsHIp

at a variety of organizations—large and small, blue larly, requires leaders to minimize the distances—

chip and start-up, for-profit and nonprofit, U.S. and institutional, attitudinal, and sometimes spatial—

international. To date we have spoken with nearly that typically separate them from their employees.

150 people at more than 100 companies. Both im- Where conversational intimacy prevails, those with

plicitly and explicitly, participants in our research decision-m aking authority seek and earn the trust

mentioned their efforts to “have a conversation” (and hence the careful attention) of those who work

with their people or their ambition to “advance the under that authority. They do so by cultivating the

conversation” within their companies. Building upon art of listening to people at all levels of the organi-

the insights and examples gleaned from this research, zation and by learning to speak with employees di-

we have developed a model of leadership that we call rectly and authentically. Physical proximity between

“organizational conversation.” leaders and employees isn’t always feasible. Nor is

Smart leaders today, we have found, engage it essential. What is essential is mental or emotional

with employees in a way that resembles an ordinary proximity. Conversationally adept leaders step down

person- to-person conversation more than it does from their corporate perches and then step up to the

a series of commands from on high. Furthermore, challenge of communicating personally and trans-

they initiate practices and foster cultural norms that parently with their people.

P instill a conversational sensibility throughout their This intimacy distinguishes organizational con-

P

organizations. Chief among the benefits of this ap- versation from long-standard forms of corporate

proach is that it allows a large or growing company to communication. It shifts the focus from a top-down

function like a small one. By talking with employees, distribution of information to a bottom-up exchange

rather than simply issuing orders, leaders can retain of ideas. It’s less corporate in tone and more casual.

hysical proximity between leaders and

employees isn’t always feasible. But mental

or emotional proximity is essential.

or recapture some of the qualities—operational flex- And it’s less about issuing and taking orders than

ibility, high levels of employee engagement, tight about asking and answering questions.

strategic alignment—that enable start-ups to out- Conversational intimacy can become manifest in

perform better- established rivals. various ways—among them gaining trust, listening

In developing our model, we have identified four well, and getting personal.

elements of organizational conversation that reflect Gaining trust. Where there is no trust, there

the essential attributes of interpersonal conversation: can be no intimacy. For all practical purposes, the re-

intimacy, interactivity, inclusion, and intentional- verse is true as well. No one will dive into a heartfelt

ity. Leaders who power their organizations through exchange of views with someone who seems to have

conversation-based practices need not (so to speak) a hidden agenda or a hostile manner, and any discus-

dot all four of these i’s. However, as we’ve discovered sion that does unfold between two people will be re-

in our research, these elements tend to reinforce one warding and substantive only to the extent that each

another. In the end, they coalesce to form a single in- person can take the other at face value.

tegrated process. But trust is hard to achieve. In organizations it

has become especially difficult for employees to put

intimacy: getting Close trust in their leaders, who will earn it only if they are

Personal conversation flourishes to the degree that authentic and straightforward. That may mean ad-

the participants stay close to each other, figuratively dressing topics that feel off-limits, such as sensitive

as well as literally. Organizational conversation, simi- financial data.

4 Harvard Business Review June 2012