SOURCE: Leadership Contact Sport.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of personal contact and follow-up in leadership improvement programs across various companies.
KEYWORDS: leadership development, follow-up, personal contact, effectiveness, training
---

[Document: Leadership Contact Sport.pdf]

months. leadership improvement using the same seven-point

• A telecommunications company: 281 managers scale employed by the first five companies, but they did

(including the CEO and his team) received training not categorize the degree of follow-up beyond the sim-

for one day. Each leader was given an external coach, ple “followed up” vs. “did not follow up.”

who had continuing one-on-one sessions with his or As noted earlier, follow-uphere refers to efforts that

her client. leaders make to solicit continuing and updated ideas for

• A pharmaceutical/health-care organization: John- improvement from their co-workers. In the two compa-

son & Johnson involved 2,060 executives and managers, nies that compared “followed up” with “did not follow

starting with the CEO and his team, in one and a half up,” participants who followed up were viewed by their

days of leadership training. Each person reviewed his or colleagues as far more effective than the leaders who did

her initial 360-degree feedback with an outside consult- not. In the companies that measured the degree of

ant (almost all by phone). Participants received at least follow-up, leaders who had “frequent” or “periodic/con-

three reminder notes to help ensure that they would fol- sistent” interaction with co-workers were reliably seen as

low up with their co-workers. having improved their effectiveness far more than lead-

74

• A high-tech manufacturing company: At Agilent ers who had “little” or “no” interaction with co-workers.

Technologies Inc., 73 high-potential leaders received Exhibits 1 to 5, on pages 76–77, show the results

coaching for one year from an external coach, an effort among the first five companies, which, despite their dif-

unconnected to any training program. Each coach had ferent leadership development programs, used the same

one-on-one sessions with his or her client on an ongoing measurement methodology. This apples-to-apples com-

basis, either in person or by phone. parison shows strong correlations across all five compa-

nies between the degree of follow-up and the perceived

Personal Touch change in leadership effectiveness.

The overarching conclusion distilled from the surveys in In the exhibits, “perceived change” refers to the

all the programs was that personal contact mattered — respondents’ perception of their co-worker’s change in

and mattered greatly. leadership effectiveness; for example, a rating of “+3”

Five of the corporations used the same measure- would indicate that the co-worker was seen as becoming

ment methodologies, while three used a slightly dif- a much more effective leader; a rating of “0” would indi-

ferent approach. All eight companies measured the cate no change in leadership effectiveness. “Percent”

frequency of managers’ discussions and follow-up with refers to the percentage of survey respondents grouped

co-workers and compared this measure with the per- around a given rating; for example, in Exhibit 1,

ceived increase in leadership effectiveness, as judged by between 30 and 42 percent of respondents gave a “0”

content

management

63eussissenisub+ygetarts

Leadership is a relationship, not

between the coach and the “coachee,” but

between the leader and the colleague.

rating — that is, they saw no change — to leaders who leaders who don’t respond to feedback must not care

“did no follow-up.” very much.

Leadership, it’s clear from this research, is a rela- Historically, a great deal of leadership development

tionship. And the most important participants in this has focused on the importance of an event. This event

relationship are not the coach and the “coachee.” They could be a training program, a motivational speech, or

are the leader and the colleague. an offsite executive meeting. The experience of the eight

Most of the leaders in this study work in knowledge companies we studied indicates that real leadership de-

environments — in companies where the value of the velopment involves a processthat occurs over time, not an

product or service derives less and less from manufac- inspiration or transformation that occurs in a meeting.

turing scale and, to use Peter Drucker’s formulation, Physical exercise provides a useful analogy. Imagine

more and more from the processing and creation of having out-of-shape people sit in a room and listen to a

information to define and solve problems. In discussing speech on the importance of exercising, then watch

leadership with knowledge workers, Professor Drucker some tapes on how to exercise, and perhaps practice

has said, “The leader of the past was a person who knew exercising. Would you ever wonder why these people

how to tell. The leader of the future will be a person who were still unfit a year later? The source of physical fitness

knows how to ask.” Our studies show that leaders who is not understanding the theory of working out; it is

regularly ask for input are seen as increasing in effective- engaging in exercise. As Arnold Schwarzenegger has

75

ness. Leaders who don’t follow up are not necessarily bad said, “Nobody ever got muscles by watching me work

leaders; they are just not seen as getting better. out!” So, too, with leadership development. As Professor

Drucker, Dr. Hersey, and Dr. Blanchard have pointed

Ask and Receive out, leadership involves a reliance on other co-workers to

In a way, our work reinforces a key learning from the achieve objectives. Who better than these same co-work-

Hawthorne studies. These classic observations of factory ers to help the leader increase effectiveness?

workers at suburban Chicago’s Western Electric Indeed, the executive coach is, in many ways, like a

Hawthorne Works, which Harvard professor Elton personal trainer. The trainer’s role is to “remind” the per-

Mayo made nearly 80 years ago, showed that productiv- son being trained to do what he or she knows should be

ity tended to increase when workers perceived leadership done. Good personal trainers spend far more time on

interest and involvement in their work, as evidenced by execution than on theory. The same seems to be true for

purposeful change in the workplace environment. Our leadership development. Most leaders already know