SOURCE: Leading Change_What Leaders Really Do_John Kotter.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Organizational Leadership Development
SUMMARY: This text discusses a leadership development program that aims to transform leaders to meet the demands of a rapidly changing environment.
KEYWORDS: leadership development, organizational change, ecological leadership, leadership audits, community of humans
---

° Office of Public Service Merit and Equity

e — Institute of Public Administrators Australia (IPAA QLD)

Sydney, New South Wales

e Public Sector Management Office

Adelaide, South Australia

e Office For The Commissioner for Public Employment

Perth, Western Australia

» Public Sector Management Division, Department of Premier and Cabinet

e Chamber of Commerce and Industry (WA)

Australia & New Zealand

° Australian Graduate School of Management

° Australian New Zealand Academy of Management

° International Graduate School of Management

-47-

EMERGING

‘We are beginning to see a

primal perception shift in

organisational development.

The old mechanistic models

are no longer effective in

rapidly changing operating

environments.

Organizations at the cutting

edge now realize that it is

high levels of responsiveness

and interrelationship that will

be the difference, and they

are embracing a profoundly

organic self-awareness that

transforms both the culture

and operational success.’

Andrew Grealrer » CEO Emerguig Leaders.

Background

At Emerging Leaders we have joined with

the world’s most prominent thought leaders

in the organizational and leadership fields to

develop The New Ecology of Leadership

model™,

AS a specialist Leadership development

organisation our goal is to mobilise people to

action and enable them to be more effective

leaders.

Ecological Leadership

Development Program

The challenge for today’s organizations is to

transform leaders to meet the demands of

the new social, economic, demographic,

cultural, spiritual, and technological cross

currents of change.

Assisting organizational leaders to develop

the awareness and practical skills necessary

is the primary goal of The New Ecology of

Leadership™ Development Program.

Leadership Development is based upon

critical awareness of current issues facing

the business as perceived by alt levels. An

audit process is used to provide point of

time feedback throughout the organization.

This information is then utilized to create a

highly responsive, purpose-built program for

more effective development.

LEADERS

EMERGING @& LEADERS

“Developing Tomorrow's Leaders Today”

www.emergingleaders.com.au

Fax 61 8 8221 6535

Level 3, 117 King William St, Adelaide SA 5000

Telephone 61 8 8212 1711

Free Call 1300 309 039

“The biological world teaches

that sustaining change

requires understanding the

reinforcing growth processes

and what is actually needed

to catalyze them, and

addressing the limits that

keep change from occurring.’

pi

‘.» Companies die because

their managers focus on the

economic activity of

producing goods and

services, and they forget that

their organization’s true

nature is that of a

community of humans’

Ane de Geus = The Living Company 1.

Leadership Audits

Representative samples of the organization

are interviewed to establish current attitudes

to business and leadership issues. Strengths

and development opportunities are identified

to assist the strategic planning process.

On-line

Ecological Leadership

Assessment Instrument

This highly accessible tool is available to give

full appraisal of leadership throughout the

organization by encouraging personal

review, as well as 360° feedback from direct

reports, peers and managers. Located on

our secure server, the assessments are

aggregated and allow for full confidentiality.

Priority Values

Assessment

Values are the vital connections that keep

the most vibrant organizations flourishing

and focused. They can also lead to

dysfunction if not understood and utilized

appropriately, Priority Values have profound

impact upon the implementation of change.

We provide a full Values Consultancy Service

that is built upon Values Education Network

roots and over 30 years of Values research.

Emerging Leaders

Developing tomorrow's leaders today.

EMERGING LEADERS PTY LTD ABN 21 750 940 050

8212 1711

)

(08)

or visit www.emergingleaders.com.au

Phone