SOURCE: Leadership is a Conversation.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Organizational Strategy and Employee Engagement
SUMMARY: The text describes how Infosys and Kingfisher used organizational conversations and employee participation to develop strategic plans and align their diverse workforce.
KEYWORDS: organizational strategy, employee engagement, participatory decision-making, peer-to-peer knowledge sharing, organizational transformation
---

[Document: Leadership is a Conversation.pdf]

cess. In late 2009, as Infosys leaders began to build served as facilitators, ambling through the aisles

an organizational strategy for the 2011 fiscal year, and providing words of encouragement. The third

they invited people from every rank and division and largest group acted as buyers, moving from one

of the company to join in. In particular, explains stall to the next, examining the “merchandise,” and

Kris Gopalakrishnan, a cofounder and executive occasionally “purchasing” one of the ideas. Using

cochairman, they asked employees to submit ideas special checkbooks issued for this purpose, buyers

on “the significant transformational trends that could draft up to five checks each to pay for suppliers’

we see affecting our customers.” Using those ideas, wares. Such transactions had no force beyond the

strategic planners at Infosys came up with a list of 17 confines of the session, but they conveyed a strong

trends, ranging from the growth of emerging mar- message to the suppliers: What you’re telling me is

kets to the increasing emphasis on environmental impressive. The essence of the marketplace was the

sustainability. They then created a series of online peer-to-peer sharing of best practices in an informal,

forums in which employees could suggest how to messy, and noisy environment. But the idea was also

match each trend with various customer solutions to treat conversation as a means to an end—to use it

that the company might offer. Technology and to achieve strategic alignment across a diverse group

social networks enabled bottom-up participation of participants.

across the company.

In 2008 Kingfisher plc, the world’s third-largest ConverSation goeS on in every company, whether

home improvement retailer, began pursuing a new you recognize it or not. That has always been the

strategy to transform a group of historically discrete case, but today the conversation has the potential

business units into “one team,” in part through in- to spread well beyond your walls, and it’s largely out

tentional organizational conversation. To launch of your control. Smart leaders find ways to use con-

the effort, company leaders held a three-day event versation—to manage the flow of information in an

in Barcelona for retail executives. On the second day honest, open fashion. One-way broadcast messaging

everyone participated in a 90-minute session called is a relic, and slick marketing materials have as little

Share at the Marketplace, which was intended to effect on employees as they do on customers. But

emulate a classic Mediterranean or Middle Eastern people will listen to communication that is intimate,

bazaar. One group of participants, called “suppliers,” interactive, inclusive, and intentional.

donned aprons, and each person stood at one of 22 hBr reprint R1206d

sequestered in his favorite latte joint, Wallace sets out

to write the great american expense Report.

10 Harvard Business Review June 2012

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ranok

IReLLImaC

nasus

:nooTRaC