SOURCE: Leading_Change.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses common mistakes made during organizational change efforts, including premature victory celebrations, poor succession planning, and lack of board engagement.
KEYWORDS: organizational change, change process, change management, transformation, succession planning
---

[Document: Leading_Change.txt]

premature victory celebration. In their enthu- own improved customer service and productiv-

siasm over a clear sign of progress, the initia- ity were instrumental. Helping people see the

tors go overboard. They are then joined by re- right connections requires communication. In-

sistors, who are quick to spot any opportunity deed, one company was relentless, and it paid

to stop change. After the celebration is over, off enormously. Time was spent at every major

the resistors point to the victory as a sign that management meeting to discuss why perfor-

the war has been won and the troops should mance was increasing. The company news-

be sent home. Weary troops allow themselves paper ran article after article showing how

to be convinced that they won. Once home, changes had boosted earnings.

the foot soldiers are reluctant to climb back on The second factor is taking sufficient time

the ships. Soon thereafter, change comes to a to make sure that the next generation of top

halt, and tradition creeps back in. management really does personify the new

harvard business review • january 2007 page 8

--- Page 10 ---

Leading Change•••BEST OF HBR

approach. If the requirements for promotion two years, signs of renewal began to disap-

don’t change, renewal rarely lasts. One bad pear at both companies.

succession decision at the top of an organiza- • • •

tion can undermine a decade of hard work. There are still more mistakes that people

Poor succession decisions are possible when make, but these eight are the big ones. I realize

boards of directors are not an integral part of that in a short article everything is made to

the renewal effort. In at least three instances I sound a bit too simplistic. In reality, even

have seen, the champion for change was the successful change efforts are messy and full

retiring executive, and although his successor of surprises. But just as a relatively simple vi-

was not a resistor, he was not a change cham- sion is needed to guide people through a

pion. Because the boards did not understand major change, so a vision of the change pro-

the transformations in any detail, they could cess can reduce the error rate. And fewer er-

not see that their choices were not good fits. rors can spell the difference between success

The retiring executive in one case tried unsuc- and failure.

cessfully to talk his board into a less seasoned

candidate who better personified the transfor- Reprint R0701J

mation. In the other two cases, the CEOs did To order, see the next page

not resist the boards’ choices, because they or call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500

felt the transformation could not be undone or go to www.hbrreprints.org

by their successors. They were wrong. Within

harvard business review • january 2007 page 9

--- Page 11 ---

BEST OF HBR

Leading Change

Why Transformation Efforts Fail

Further Reading

ARTICLES

Building Your Company’s Vision BOOKS

by James C. Collins and Jerry I. Porras The Heart of Change: Real-Life Stories of

Harvard Business Review How People Change Their Organizations

September–October 1996 by John P. Kotter and Dan S. Cohen

Product no. 96501 Harvard Business School Press

2002

Collins and Porras describe the glue that

Product no. 2549

holds a change effort together. Great compa-

nies have a clear sense of why they exist— This book is organized around Kotter’s eight-

their core ideology—and where they want stage change process, and reveals the results

to go—their envisioned future. The mecha- of his research in over 100 organizations in

nism for getting there is a BHAG (Big, Hairy, the midst of large-scale change. Although

Audacious Goal), which typically takes 10 to most organizations believe that change hap-

30 years to accomplish. The company’s busi- pens by making people think differently, the

ness, strategies, and even its culture may authors say that the key lies more in making

change, but its core ideology remains un- them feel differently. They introduce a new

changed. At every step in this long process, dynamic—“see-feel-change”—that sparks

the leader’s key task is to create alignment and fuels action by showing people potent

with the vision of the company’s future, so reasons for change that charge their emo-

that regardless of the twists and turns in the tions. The book offers tips and tools to you

journey, the organizational commitment to apply to your own organization.

the goal remains strong.

Leading Change

Successful Change Programs Begin with by John P. Kotter

Results Harvard Business School Press

by Robert H. Schaffer and Harvey A. Thomson 1996

Harvard Business Review Product no. 7471

January–February 1992

This book expands upon the article about why

Product no. 92108

transformation efforts fail. Kotter addresses

Although a change initiative is a process, that each of eight major stages of a change initia-

doesn’t mean process issues should be the tive in sequence, highlighting the key activities

primary concern. Most corporate change in each, and providing object lessons about

programs have a negligible impact on opera- where companies often go astray.

tional and financial performance because

management focuses on the activities, not

the results. By contrast, results-driven im-

provement programs seek to achieve spe-

To Order

cific, measurable improvements within a

few months.

For Harvard Business Review reprints and

subscriptions, call 800-988-0886 or

617-783-7500. Go to www.hbrreprints.org

For customized and quantity orders of

Harvard Business Review article reprints,

call 617-783-7626, or e-mai

customizations@hbsp.harvard.edu

page 10