SOURCE: Leading Change_What Leaders Really Do_John Kotter.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership and Organizational Change
SUMMARY: The text discusses John Kotter's expertise in leadership and change management, emphasizing the importance of leadership in driving successful organizational change.
KEYWORDS: Leadership, Organizational Change, Change Management, John Kotter, Harvard Business School
---

Voted #1 Leadership — john P Kotter

ba W he

and Change Guru | A\¢ We @caders,

By Business Week USA jaw OS.

OW Poop

r

ee Oy

Mtons

(October 2001)

Melbourne 03 Feb 2003

‘Canberra 06 Feb 2003

Auckland 11 Feb 2003

be 1 4 Feb 2003 “Developing Tomorrow's Leaders Today”

Official Media Partne!

THE AUSTRALIAN

Supported by

Australian Human Resources Institute

John P. KOTTER

Harvard Business Professor of Leadership

Widely acknowledged as the world’s foremost authority on

leadership and change, John Kotter has devoted his

remarkable career to studying organisations, those who run

them, and the practices to change them. Change can easily be

recognised as needed but the reality of creating that change,

and most importantly, making it stick is extremely difficult. It

is no longer just a matter of management, attention must be

paid to the importance of leadership to facilitate change.

John Kotter has been with Harvard Business School for nearly

30 years. Widely regarded as the best speaker in the world on

the topics of leadership and change, Professor Kotter's most

recent books include The Heart of Change, Matsushita

Leadership and Leading Change. His articles in The Harvard

Business Review over the past twenty years have sold more

reprints than any of the hundreds of distinguished authors

who have written for that publication during the same time

period.

John believes that competent management is required to

keep change efforts on track. But for most organisations, the

much bigger challenge is leading change. Only leadership can

blast through the many sources of corporate inertia. Only

leadership can motivate the actions needed to alter behaviour

in any significant way. Only leadership can get change to

stick, by anchoring it in the very culture of the organisation.

John stresses that leadership cannot be confined to one

larger-than-life individual who charms thousands into being

obedient followers. Modern organisations are far too

complex to be transformed by a single giant. The leadership

effort must have support from many people who assist the

leadership agenda within their sphere of activity.

Professor John Kotter’s books have been printed in over

seventy foreign language editions, and total sales are

approaching two million copies. In 1996, Professor Kotter's

Leading Change was named the #1 management book of the

year by Management General. In 1998, his Matsushita

Leadership won first place in the Financial Times, Booz-Allen

Global Business Book Competition for biography/

autobiography. In October 2001, Business Week magazine

reported a survey they conducted of 504 enterprises that

rated Professor Kotter the #1 ‘leadership guru’ in America

and #3 overall management guru.

Program Timetable

0800-0900 Registration

0900-0915 Introduction

0915-1045 Leadership

1045-1115 Morning Coffee/Tea

1115-1245 The 8 Steps of Change

1245-1330 Lunch f

1330-1500 Seeing — Feeling — Changing |

1500-1530 Afternoon Coffee/Tea

1530-1645 the Life You Lead

1645 Close

Registration Enquires:

Tel: +61 2 9437 9333

/ Emerging Leaders rometions Pty Ltd Is proud. :

_ to be bringing John to Australiaand New —s

_ Zealand to share his expertise. Our company

regularly holds such events bringing the elite

of leadership to the Southern Hemisphere. The |

consulting side of our company runs leadership

development programs far groups, as well as

individual companies. These are designed to

meet the needs of the individual organisation |

as Identified from a cultural audit and 360

degree leadership appraisals conducted from a

tepresentative sample of statt,

For more information email us at

info@emergingleaders.com,au or

Tel: 461882121711 =

Web: wwiw.emergingleaders.com,au

Emerging Leaders

Promotions Presents

John P. Kotter

Leading Change

What Leaders

Really Do

Official Media Partner Sp prt By

& THE AUSTRALIAN @ Australian Human Resources Institute

www.emergingleaders.com.au

Free Call 1300 309 039

EMERGING LEADERS

“Developing Tomorrow's Leaders Today”

‘Leading Change: What Leaders Really Do’

It is an absolute pleasure to welcome you to the John Kotter seminar series in Australia and New

Zealand. John is the world’s foremost authority on leadership and change and his sessions are

designed to mobilise action, spurring people to re-examine their practices and to provide

increased leadership in their spheres of activity. I am sure you will find the seminar rewarding and

a worthwhile investment.

We would like to thank the many supporters of the event and the names of all of these

organisations can be viewed on page 47. Specifically, we would like to thank the Australian

Human Resources Institute and The Australian for their on-going support of our world-class

events,

This learning journal has been produced to assist your learning throughout the day. Should you

require any further debrief sessions or information about future events please approach me or

any of our staff to make arrangements or call us on 1300 309 039.

We trust you will find today a rewarding experience and look forward to seeing you at our next

event.

Sincerely

AR. Galo

Andrew Greatrex

Managing Director

Emerging Leaders

Part I

Leadership vs. Management:

Why the Distinction is

Increasingly Important

Management

Planning and budgeting

Organizing and staffing

Controlling and problem

solving

Makes an organization run

efficiently

Visionary Leadership

Creating vision and strategy

Communicating

vision/strategy and getting

buy-in

Motivating action

Helps an organization grow,

evolve, and adapt to changing

circumstances

Both Management and Leadership

Are Needed to Run a Business

of Any Size in An Era of Change

sb

Meets Today’s

Commitments To

Innovative and Customers and

Energetic But Shareholders Superbly

on the Edge of While Also Adapting To

Debilitating Chaos Change in a Way That

Will Make the Enterprise

Stronger in the Future

Leadership

Usually Solid and a

Money Maker If It Has

High Market Shares,

But Also Very

Bureaucratic and

Controlling and

Unable to Adapt to Well to

a Changing Environment

An Enterprise That Is Soon

to Go Out of Business

Unless It Is a

Protected Monopoly

++

Management

High Leadership and

High Management Can Be

Created With Teamwork

Leadership

Management

X = Managers/Executives

T = How the group acts when fused as a team

Just As Many People Need to Help

Manage An Organization, Many

Increasingly Need to Help Lead It