SOURCE: Leadership Contact Sport.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The article discusses the importance of developing leaders at all levels of an organization, and the use of executive coaching as a tool for leadership development.
KEYWORDS: leadership development, executive coaching, organizational objectives
---

[Document: Leadership Contact Sport.pdf]

Leadership

Is a Contact

Sport

The “Follow-up Factor” in

Management Development

by Marshall Goldsmith and Howard Morgan

71

Leadership is not just for leaders anymore. Top are stepping up to the challenge of leadership develop-

companies are beginning to understand that sustaining ment and their results are quite tangible. In Leading the

peak performance requires a firm-wide commitment to Way: Three Truths from the Top Companies for Leaders

developing leaders that is tightly aligned to organiza- (John Wiley & Sons, 2004), a study of the top 20 com-

tional objectives — a commitment much easier to panies for leadership development, Marc Effron and

understand than to achieve. Organizations must find Robert Gandossy show that companies that excel at

ways to cascade leadership from senior management to developing leaders tend to achieve higher long-term

men and women at all levels. As retired Harvard profitability.

Business School professor John P. Kotter eloquently But it sometimes seems there are as many approach-

noted in the previous issue of strategy+business, this ulti- es to leadership development as there are leadership

mately means we must “create 100 million new leaders” developers. One increasingly popular tool for developing

throughout our society. (See “Leading Witnesses,” s+b, leaders is executive coaching. Hay Group, a human

Summer 2004.) resources consultancy, reported that half of 150 compa-

Organizational experts Paul Hersey and Kenneth nies surveyed in 2002 said that they had increased their

Blanchard have defined leadership as “working with and use of executive coaching, and 16 percent reported using

through others to achieve objectives.” Many companies coaches for the first time.

mortsdloG

treboR

yb

noitartsullI

content

management

Marshall Goldsmith(marshall Howard Morgan (howard@

@marshallgoldsmith.com) is a howardjmorgan.com) is the

founder of Marshall Goldsmith founder of 50 Top Coaches,

Partners, a leadership coach- a collective of many of the

ing network. He has worked world’s leading executive advi-

with more than 70 major CEOs sors. He specializes in execu-

and their management teams tive coaching as a strategic

and is the author or coauthor change-management tool. He

of 18 books on leadership and is co-editor of the forthcoming

coaching. His most recent book The Art and Practice of

book is Global Leadership: The Leadership Coaching: 50 Top

Next Generation(Financial Executive Coaches Reveal

Times Prentice Hall, 2003). Their Secrets(John Wiley &

Sons, December 2004).

Yet even “executive coaching” is a broad category. In gies: offsite training versus onsite coaching, short

reviewing a spate of books on coaching last year, Des duration versus long duration, internal coaches versus

Dearlove and Stuart Crainer identified at least three external coaches, and traditional classroom-based train-

types of coaching: behavioral change coaching, personal ing versus on-the-job interaction.

productivity coaching, and “energy coaching.” (See “My Rather than just evaluating “participant happiness”

Coach and I,” s+b, Summer 2003.) Our own upcoming at the end of a program, each of the eight companies

book, The Art and Practice of Leadership Coaching: 50 measured the participants’ perceived increase in leader-

Top Executive Coaches Reveal Their Secrets (written with ship effectiveness over time. “Increased effectiveness”

Phil Harkins, to be published by John Wiley & Sons in was not determined by the participants in the develop-

December 2004), includes discussions about five types ment effort; it was assessed by preselected co-workers

of leadership coaching: strategic, organizational and stakeholders.

change/execution, leadership development, personal/life Time and again, one variable emerged as central to

planning, and behavioral. the achievement of positive long-term change: the par-

Given the increasingly competitive economic envi- ticipants’ ongoing interaction and follow-up with col-

ronment and the significant human and financial capi- leagues. Leaders who discussed their own improvement

tal expended on leadership development, it is not only priorities with their co-workers, and then regularly fol-

fair but necessary for those charged with running com- lowed up with these co-workers, showed striking

72

panies to ask, “Does any of this work? And if so, how?” improvement. Leaders who did not have ongoing dia-

What type of developmental activities will have the logue with colleagues showed improvement that barely

greatest impact on increasing executives’ effectiveness? exceeded random chance. This was true whether the

How can leaders achieve positive long-term changes in leader had an external coach, an internal coach, or no

behavior? With admitted self-interest — our work was coach. It was also true whether the participants went to

described in the Crainer–Dearlove article, and is fre- a training program for five days, went for one day, or did

quently cited in reviews of and articles about leadership not attend a training program at all.

coaching — we wanted to see if there were consistent The development of leaders, we have concluded, is

principles of success underlying these different a contact sport.

approaches to leadership development.

We reviewed leadership development programs in Eight Approaches

eight major corporations. Although all eight companies The eight companies whose leadership development

had the same overarching goals — to determine the programs we studied were drawn from our own roster of

desired behaviors for leaders in their organizations and clients over the past 16 years. Although all are large cor-

to help leaders increase their effectiveness by better porations, each company is in a different sector and each

aligning actual practices with these desired behaviors — faces very different competitive pressures.

they used different leadership development methodolo- Each company customized its leadership develop-

content

management

63eussissenisub+ygetarts

ment approach to its specific needs. Five of the eight

focused on the development of high-potential leaders,

and between 73 and 354 participants were involved in

their programs. The three other companies included

almost all managers (above midlevel), and involved

between 1,528 and 6,748 managers. The degree of inter-

national representation varied among organizations. At

two companies, almost all of the participants were

American. Non-U.S. executives made up almost half of

the participants in one company’s program. The other

five had varying levels of international participation.

Some of the companies used traditional classroom-

based training in their development effort. In each of

these companies, participants would attend an offsite