SOURCE: Leading_Change.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: Effective change management requires a high sense of urgency, a guiding coalition, and a clear, compelling vision for the transformation effort.
KEYWORDS: change management, guiding coalition, vision, transformation, urgency
---

[Document: Leading_Change.txt]

A high sense of urgency within the manage- after a series of discussions over a period of

If you can’t communicate rial ranks helps enormously in putting a guid- several months.

ing coalition together. But more is usually re- Without a sensible vision, a transformation

the vision to someone in

quired. Someone needs to get these people effort can easily dissolve into a list of confus-

five minutes or less and together, help them develop a shared assess- ing and incompatible projects that can take

ment of their company’s problems and oppor- the organization in the wrong direction or

get a reaction that tunities, and create a minimum level of trust nowhere at all. Without a sound vision, the

and communication. Off-site retreats, for two reengineering project in the accounting de-

signifies both

or three days, are one popular vehicle for ac- partment, the new 360-degree performance

understanding and complishing this task. I have seen many groups appraisal from the human resources depart-

of five to 35 executives attend a series of these ment, the plant’s quality program, the cul-

interest, you are not

retreats over a period of months. tural change project in the sales force will not

done. Companies that fail in phase two usually un- add up in a meaningful way.

derestimate the difficulties of producing change In failed transformations, you often find

and thus the importance of a powerful guiding plenty of plans, directives, and programs but

coalition. Sometimes they have no history of no vision. In one case, a company gave out

teamwork at the top and therefore undervalue four-inch-thick notebooks describing its change

the importance of this type of coalition. Some- effort. In mind-numbing detail, the books

times they expect the team to be led by a staff spelled out procedures, goals, methods, and

executive from human resources, quality, or deadlines. But nowhere was there a clear and

strategic planning instead of a key line man- compelling statement of where all this was

ager. No matter how capable or dedicated the leading. Not surprisingly, most of the employ-

staff head, groups without strong line leader- ees with whom I talked were either confused

ship never achieve the power that is required. or alienated. The big, thick books did not rally

Efforts that don’t have a powerful enough them together or inspire change. In fact, they

guiding coalition can make apparent progress probably had just the opposite effect.

for a while. But, sooner or later, the opposition In a few of the less successful cases that I

gathers itself together and stops the change. have seen, management had a sense of direc-

tion, but it was too complicated or blurry to

Error 3: Lacking a Vision be useful. Recently, I asked an executive in a

In every successful transformation effort that I midsize company to describe his vision and re-

have seen, the guiding coalition develops a ceived in return a barely comprehensible 30-

harvard business review • january 2007 page 5

--- Page 7 ---

Leading Change•••BEST OF HBR

minute lecture. Buried in his answer were the about how the employee’s behavior helps or

basic elements of a sound vision. But they were undermines the vision. In a review of a divi-

buried—deeply. sion’s quarterly performance, they talk not

A useful rule of thumb: If you can’t commu- only about the numbers but also about how

nicate the vision to someone in five minutes or the division’s executives are contributing to the

less and get a reaction that signifies both un- transformation. In a routine Q&A with em-

derstanding and interest, you are not yet done ployees at a company facility, they tie their an-

with this phase of the transformation process. swers back to renewal goals.

In more successful transformation efforts,

Error 4: Undercommunicating the executives use all existing communication

Vision by a Factor of Ten channels to broadcast the vision. They turn

I’ve seen three patterns with respect to com- boring, unread company newsletters into lively

munication, all very common. In the first, a articles about the vision. They take ritualistic,

group actually does develop a pretty good tedious quarterly management meetings and

transformation vision and then proceeds to turn them into exciting discussions of the

communicate it by holding a single meeting or transformation. They throw out much of the

sending out a single communication. Having company’s generic management education

used about 0.0001% of the yearly intracom- and replace it with courses that focus on busi-

pany communication, the group is startled ness problems and the new vision. The guiding

when few people seem to understand the new principle is simple: Use every possible channel,

approach. In the second pattern, the head of especially those that are being wasted on non-

the organization spends a considerable amount essential information.

of time making speeches to employee groups, Perhaps even more important, most of the

but most people still don’t get it (not surpris- executives I have known in successful cases of

ing, since vision captures only 0.0005% of the major change learn to “walk the talk.” They

total yearly communication). In the third pat- consciously attempt to become a living symbol

tern, much more effort goes into newsletters of the new corporate culture. This is often not

and speeches, but some very visible senior ex- easy. A 60-year-old plant manager who has

ecutives still behave in ways that are antitheti- spent precious little time over 40 years think-

cal to the vision. The net result is that cynicism ing about customers will not suddenly behave

among the troops goes up, while belief in the in a customer-oriented way. But I have wit-

communication goes down. nessed just such a person change, and change a

Transformation is impossible unless hun- great deal. In that case, a high level of urgency

dreds or thousands of people are willing to helped. The fact that the man was a part of the

help, often to the point of making short-term guiding coalition and the vision-creation team