SOURCE: Leadership Contact Sport.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of the coach-leader relationship and the effectiveness of coaching, including the use of internal vs. external coaches and the impact of follow-up.
KEYWORDS: coaching, leadership development, feedback, follow-up, internal vs. external coaches
---

[Document: Leadership Contact Sport.pdf]

colleagues is not the sole connection that counts. Also of the coach–leader relationship were not a major limit-

vital is the contact between the leader and the coach. Our ing factor. Our fourth finding was that feedback or

third major finding concerns that relationship: Both coaching by telephone works about as well as feedback or

internal and external coaches can make a positive difference. coaching in person.

One reason coaching can be so effective is that it Intuitively, one might believe that feedback or

may inspire leaders to follow up with their people. coaching is a very “personal” activity that is better done

Agilent Technologies, for one, found a strong positive face-to-face than by phone. However, the companies we

correlation between the number of times the coach fol- reviewed do not support this supposition. One company,

lowed up with the client and the number of times the Johnson & Johnson, conducted almost all feedback by

client followed up with co-workers. telephone, yet produced “increased effectiveness” scores

The coach, however, does not have to be part of the almost identical to those of the aerospace/defense organ-

company. This conclusion was readily apparent when ization, which conducted all feedback in person.

we compared the two companies most distinct in the Moreover, all the companies that used only external

composition of their coaching corps. Agilent used only coaches similarly found little difference between tele-

78

external coaches. GE Capital, by contrast, used only phone coaching and live coaching. These companies

internal coaches from human resources. Yet both made sure that each coach had at least two one-on-one

approaches produced very positive long-term increases meetings with individual executive clients. Some coaches

in perceived leadership effectiveness. did this in person, whereas others interacted mostly by

Given the apparent ease of accessibility to internal phone. There was no clear indication that either method

coaches, firms might naturally use this finding to justify of coaching was more effective than the other.

“going inside.” But there are at least three important Although sophisticated systems — involving some

variables to consider in determining whether to use an combination of e-mail, intranets, extranets, and mobile

internal HR coach: time, credibility, and confidentiality. connectivity — are available, follow-up needn’t be

In many organizations, internal coaches are not expensive. Internal coaches can make follow-up tele-

given the time they need for ongoing interaction with phone calls. New computerized systems can send

the people they are coaching. In some cases, they may “reminder notes” and give ongoing suggestions.

not seem as credible as trained development experts. In However it’s done, follow-up is the sine qua nonof effec-

other cases, especially those that involve human tive leadership development. Too many companies

resources personnel filling multiple roles, there may spend millions of dollars for the “program of the year”

appear to be a conflict of interest between a profes- but almost nothing on follow-up and reinforcement.

sional’s responsibilities as coach and as evaluator. If these Companies should also take care to measure the

content

management

63eussissenisub+ygetarts

Continual contact with colleagues

is so effective it can succeed even without

a formal program.

effectiveness of their leadership development initiatives, ing processes and “reminder notes” to help leaders

and not just the employees’ satisfaction with them. Our achieve a positive long-term change in effectiveness,

results indicate that when participants know that surveys without using coaches at all.

or other methods of measuring program effectiveness are If the organization can teach the leader to reach out

slated to occur three to 15 months from the date of the to co-workers, to listen and learn, and to focus on

program, a higher level of commitment is created continuous development, both the leader and the organ-

among them. This follow-up measurement creates a ization will benefit. After all, by following up with col-

focus on long-term change and personal accountability. leagues, a leader demonstrates a commitment to self-

Although measuring outcomes would seem to be improvement — and a determination to get better. This

second nature for most companies, the success of lead- process does not have to take a lot of time or money.

ership development programs has conventionally been There’s something far more valuable: contact. +

assessed through the satisfaction of the participants. This Reprint No. 04307

metric is of limited relevance. Among the companies in

our study that offered leadership development training,

virtually all participants came away highly satisfied. At

the aerospace/defense contractor and Johnson & Resources

Johnson, the average satisfaction rating among more

Des Dearlove and Stuart Crainer, “My Coach and I,” s+b, Summer 2003; 79

than 3,500 participants was 4.7 out of a possible 5.0.

www.strategy-business.com/press/article/22062

Executives loved the training, but that didn’t mean they

Elizabeth Thach, “The Impact of Executive Coaching and 360 Feedback

usedthe training or improved because of it. on Leadership Effectiveness,” Leadership & Organization Development

Journal, Vol. 23, No. 4, 2002; http://fiordiliji.emeraldinsight.com/

vl=2762214/cl=12/nw=1/rpsv/lodj.htm

Learning to Learn

Marshall Goldsmith, “Ask, Learn, Follow Up, and Grow,” in The Leader

Of even greater import is this: Continual contact with

of the Future: New Visions, Strategies, and Practices for the Next Era, edited

colleagues regarding development issues is so effective it

by Frances Hesselbein, Marshall Goldsmith, and Richard Beckhard (Peter

can succeed even without a large, formal program. Drucker Foundation and Jossey-Bass, 1996)

Agilent, for example, produced excellent results, even Linda Sharkey, “Leveraging HR: How to Develop Leaders in Real Time,”

though its leaders received coaching that was completely in Human Resources in the 21st Century, edited by Marc Effron, Robert

Gandossy, and Marshall Goldsmith (John Wiley & Sons, 2003)

disconnected from any training. In fact, leaders who do

Diane Anderson, Brian Underhill, and Robert Silva, “The Agilent APEX

not have coaches can be coached broadly by their co-

Case Study,” in Best Practices in Leadership Development — 2004, edited

workers. The key to changing behavior is “learning to by Dave Ulrich, Louis Carter, and Marshall Goldsmith (Best Practices

learn” from those around us, and then modifying Publications, forthcoming 2004)