SOURCE: Leading Change_What Leaders Really Do_John Kotter.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of leadership and management in driving organizational change, and outlines an 8-step process for successful transformations.
KEYWORDS: change management, leadership, organizational transformation, vision, strategy
---

Protected Monopoly

++

Management

High Leadership and

High Management Can Be

Created With Teamwork

Leadership

Management

X = Managers/Executives

T = How the group acts when fused as a team

Just As Many People Need to Help

Manage An Organization, Many

Increasingly Need to Help Lead It

As the Rate of Change Increases

Everywhere.

Leadership From Many Works

With Overlapping Visions.

Corporate vision that speaks

to firm’s competitive realities

V V V V V V Divisional visions that are

compatible with corporate

vision and speak to

divisional businesses

-VVVVV-V VY V | Department visions that are

compatible with corporate

and division visions and

speak to departmental issues

Success Over Significant Periods of

Time Often Leaves Firms With Too

Little Leadership

History

¢ Some combination of visionary entrepreneurship and/or

luck creates and implements a very successful business

strategy.

° A fairly dominant position (and thus lack of strong

competition) is established in some market or

markets—usually a product or service market, but might

include financial, labor, or supply markets.

¢ The firm experiences much success in terms of growth and

profits.

Consequences

° The pressures come mostly from inside the firm, not

outside. Building and staffing an organization that can cope

with growth is the biggest challenge.

° The firm tends to hire and promote managers, not leaders, to

manage growth, cope with the growing bureaucracy, and to

keep things from getting out of control.

More Leadership is Possible

0 + aaa +++

Leadership Potential, Set by Birth and Early Experiences

0

eo

How Much of That Potential Has Been

Developed into Useable Skills

0

oe

How Much a Person Uses

the Skills to Lead

——_.,—_——’

Gap Between Action and Potential

EMERGING

“Developing Tomorrows Leaders Today”

Session One: Leadership

Application to your workplace

What was the one key learning I received from this presentation? (Something new

or reinforced)

What implications does it have for me / my organisation?

Who else should know this?

How will I share it with him / her/ them (include a time line)?

What will I do differently as a result of what I have heard?

Session One: Leadership

Notes

Part II

Leading Change

Why Transformations

Succeed or Fail

When Organizations Leap to

Excel in a Rapidly Changing

World, They Usually Use

an 8-Step Process

eo on ga Rance aflivoeney.

1 Establishing a Greater Sense of Urgency

SI

¢ Examining seriously the market and competitive realities

° Identifying and discussing crises, potential crises or major

opportunities

|

2 Creating the Guiding Coalition

° Putting together a group with enough power to lead the change

° Getting the group to work together like a team

3 Developing a Vision and Strategy

° Creating a vision to help direct the change effort

° Developing strategies for achieving that vision

4

Communicating the Change Vision

° Using every vehicle possible to constantly communicate the

new vision and strategies

Role modeling needed behavior by the guiding coalition

Empowering Others to Act

° Getting rid of blockers

¢ Changing systems or structures that seriously undermine the

change vision

° Encouraging risk taking and nontraditional ideas, activities, and

actions

6 Creating Short-term Wins

¢ Planning for some visible performance improvements

¢ Creating those wins

* Visibly recognizing and rewarding people who made the

wins possible

Consolidating Gains and Producing Even More Change

Using increased credibility to change all systems, structures,

and policies that don’t fit together and don’t fit the

transformation vision

Hiring, promoting, and developing people who can

implement the change vision

Reinvigorating the process with new projects, themes, and

change agents

Not declaring victory too soon

8 Institutionalizing Changes in the Culture |

¢ Creating better performance through customer and

productivity oriented behavior, more and better leadership,

and more effective management

° Articulating the connections between new behaviors and

firm success

* Developing means to ensure leadership development and

succession

The winning process is:

75—80% Leadership

20-25% Management

not the other way around.

Session Two: The 8 Steps of Change

Application to your workplace

What was the one key learning I received from this presentation? (Something new

or reinforced)

What implications does it have for me / my organisation?

Who else should know this?

How will I share it with him / her/ them (include a time line)?

What will I do differently as a result of what I have heard?

Session Two: The 8 Steps of Change

Notes

Session Two: The 8 Steps of Change

Notes

-20-

Part Il

The Heart of Change

#1 Problem in

all stages of

a change effort is

changing the behavior

of individual managers

and employees

Gloves on the Boardroom Table

From Jon Stegnor:

We had a problem with our whole purchasing process. I was convinced that a great

deal of money was being wasted and would continue to be wasted into the future. We didn’t

even know how much money was being thrown. I thought we had an opportunity to drive

down purchasing costs not by 2% but something in the order of $1 billion over 5 years. A

change this big meant a big shift in the process. That would not be possible unless many

people, especially in top management, saw the opportunity, which for the most part they did

not. So nothing was happening.

To get a sense of the magnitude of the problem, I asked one of our summer students

to do a small study of how much we pay for different kinds of gloves and how many

different gloves we buy. I chose one item to keep it simple, something all the plants use and

something we can all easily relate to.

When the student completed the project, he told me that we buy 424 different kinds

own negotiated price. The same glove could cost $5 at one factory and $17 at another.

$5.00 or even $17.00 may not seem like much money, but we buy A LOT of gloves, and

this was just one example of our purchasing problem. When I examined what he had found,