SOURCE: Leadership is a Conversation.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Organizational Communication
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of transparent and authentic communication between leaders and employees in organizations.
KEYWORDS: trust, intimacy, organizational conversation, transparency
---

[Document: Leadership is a Conversation.pdf]

another. In the end, they coalesce to form a single in- person can take the other at face value.

tegrated process. But trust is hard to achieve. In organizations it

has become especially difficult for employees to put

intimacy: getting Close trust in their leaders, who will earn it only if they are

Personal conversation flourishes to the degree that authentic and straightforward. That may mean ad-

the participants stay close to each other, figuratively dressing topics that feel off-limits, such as sensitive

as well as literally. Organizational conversation, simi- financial data.

4 Harvard Business Review June 2012

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

For arTicle reprinTs call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500, or visiT hBr.org

idea in Brief

one-way, top-down Today’s leaders achieve far Corporate conversation reflects The good news for leaders

communication more engagement and cred- a new reality: Thanks in part to is that people can talk up a

between leaders and ibility when they take part in digital and social technologies, company in a way that’s more

their employees is no genuine conversation with the employees have found a public interesting and attractive than

longer useful or even people who work for and with voice. They’ll use it whether any obvious public relations

them. a conversation is a frank their bosses like it or not. campaign.

realistic.

exchange of ideas and informa-

tion with an implicit or explicit

agenda.

Athenahealth, a medical-records technology employees at one session to grade him on a scale of

provider, has gone as far as to treat every last one A to F. The results, recorded anonymously, immedi-

of its employees as an “insider” under the strict ately appeared on a screen for all to see. The grades

legal meaning of the term. Insiders are defined were generally good, but less than half of employees

as employees entrusted with strategic and finan- were willing to give him an A. He took the feedback

cial information that could materially affect the seriously and began to conduct the exercise regu-

company’s business prospects and hence its stock larly. He also began asking open-ended questions

price—a status typically accorded only to top-tier about his performance. Somewhat ironically, he

officers. Opening the books to such a degree was a found that “internal communication” was the area

risky move, discouraged by the company’s under- in which the highest number of participants be-

writers and frowned upon by the SEC. But Athena- lieved he had room for improvement. Even as Rogers

health’s leaders wanted employees to become sought to get close to employees by way of organiza-

insiders in more than just the regulatory sense; tional conversation, a fifth of his people were urging

they wanted them to be thoroughly involved in the him to get closer still. True listening involves tak-

business. ing the bad with the good, absorbing criticism even

Listening well. Leaders who take organizational when it is direct and personal—and even when those

conversation seriously know when to stop talking delivering it work for you.

and start listening. Few behaviors enhance conver- At Exelon, an energy provider headquartered

sational intimacy as much as attending to what peo- in Chicago, a deeply personal form of organiza-

ple say. True attentiveness signals respect for people tional conversation emerged from a project aimed

of all ranks and roles, a sense of curiosity, and even a at bringing the company’s corporate values alive

degree of humility. for its employees. Values statements typically do

Duke Energy’s president and CEO, James E. Rog- little to instill intimacy; they’re generally dismissed

ers, instituted a series of what he called “listening as just talk. So Exelon experimented in its com-

sessions” when he was the CEO and chairman of Cin- munication about diversity, a core value: It used

ergy (which later merged with Duke). Meeting with a series of short video clips—no fuss, no pretense,

groups of 90 to 100 managers in three-hour sessions, no high production values—of top leaders speak-

he invited participants to raise any pressing issues. ing unscripted, very personally, about what diver-

Through these discussions he gleaned information sity meant to them. They talked about race, sexual

that might otherwise have escaped his attention. orientation, and other issues that rarely go on the

At one session, for example, he heard from a group table in a corporation. Ian McLean, then an Exelon

of supervisors about a problem related to uneven finance executive, spoke of growing up in Manches-

compensation. “You know how long it would have ter, England, the son of a working-class family, and

taken for that to bubble up in the organization?” he feeling the sting of class prejudice. Responding to a

asks. Having heard directly from those affected by question about a time when he felt “different,” he

the problem, he could instruct his HR department to described going to work in a bank where most of

find a solution right away. his colleagues had upper-class backgrounds: “My

Getting personal. Rogers not only invited peo- accent was different….I wasn’t included, I wasn’t

ple to raise concerns about the company but also so- invited, and I was made to think I wasn’t quite as

licited feedback on his own performance. He asked smart as they were….I never want anyone else to

June 2012 Harvard Business Review 5

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (RYAN@BBRCWORLD.COM). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

gnoRTsmRa

knaRf

:yHpaRgoToHp

Spotlight on LeadeRsHIp

The new Realities of Leadership Communication

five long-term business trends are eConoMiC ORGanizatiOnal

Change cHanGe

forcing the shift from corporate

As service industries have As companies have become

communication to organizational

become more economically flatter and less hierarchical,

conversation. significant than manufacturing and frontline employees more

industries, and as knowledge pivotally involved in value-

work has supplanted other creating work, lateral and