SOURCE: Leading Change_What Leaders Really Do_John Kotter.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Workplace Inspiration and Motivation
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of maintaining enthusiasm, optimism, and a youthful spirit in the workplace, even as one ages.
KEYWORDS: enthusiasm, optimism, youthful spirit, workplace motivation, aging
---

our ideals.

Years may wrinkle the skin, but to give up enthusiasm wrinkles the soul. Worry, fear,

self-distrust bows the heart and turns the spirit back to dust.

Whether sixty or sixteen, there is in every human being’s heart the lure of wonder, the

unfailing childlike appetite of what’s next, and the joy of the game of living. In the center of

your heart and my heart there is a wireless station; so long as it receives messages of beauty,

hope, cheer, courage and power from men and from the Infinite, so long are you young.

When the aerials are down, and your spirit is covered with snows of cynicism and the

ice of pessimism, then you are grown old, even at twenty, but as long as your aerials are up,

to catch waves of optimism, there is hope you may die young at eighty.”

Samuel Ullman

- 39 -

Session Four: The Life You Lead

Application to your workplace

What was the one key learning I received from this presentation? (Something new

or reinforced)

What implications does it have for me / my organisation?

Who else should know this?

How will I share it with him / her/ them (include a time line)?

What will I do differently as a result of what I have heard?

- 40 -

Session Four: The Life You Lead

Notes

-41-

Session Four: The Life You Lead

Notes

-42-

Publications by Professor John P Kotter:

Here, in this collection of his acclaimed Harvard Business Review articles, Is an

astute assessment of the real work of leaders, as only John Kotter can offer. To

complement the HBR articles, Kotter also contributes a new plece, a thoughtful

reflection on the themes that have developed throughout his work. Convinced

that most organizations today lack the leadership they nead, Kotter’s mission is

to help us better understand what leaders--real leaders-do. True leadership, he

reminds us, is an elusive quality, and too often we confuse management duties

and personal style with leadership, or even mistake unworthy leaders for the

real thing. Yet without leadership, organizations move too slowly, stagnate, and

lose their way. With John Kotter on What Leaders Really Do, readers will learn

how to become more effective leaders as they explore pressing Issues such as

power, influence, dependence, and strategies for change.

in Leading Change John examines the efforts of more than 100 companies to re-

make themselves into better competitors. He identifies the most common mistakes

leaders and managers make in attempting to create change and offers an eight-step

process to overcome the obstacles and carry out the firm's agenda.

“Leading change provides valuable insights that will benefit any organisation con-

templating or undertaking major changes to position itself to compete successfully

in the global marketplace today and into the 21st century.” Stanley C Gault, Chair-

man of the Board, The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company.

“Leading change has tremendous value. The ideas are easily transferable to any

company, large or small, It has helped me with my own. management style, and it n . |

can help others” Andrew S Bluestone, President, Selective Benefits Group. PE LLLLN- :

For individuals in every walk of life and in every stage of change, this compact, |

no-nonsense book captures both the heart--and the "how"--of successful |

change. Organizations are forced to change faster and more radically than

ever. How are companies faring in meeting these challenges--and what can we

learn from their experiences? In this powerful follow-up book--organized

| around Leading Change's revolutionary eight-step change process--Kotter and

| co-author Dan Cohen reveal the results of their research in over 100 organiza-

tions in the midst of large-scale change. What they found may surprise you.

Although most organizations believe change happens by making people think

differently-Kotter and Cohen say the key lies more in making them feel differ-

n P Kotter ently. ten introduce a pew teat reswone for changer that spars and fuels

eat AL be TASES action owing people potent reasons for change that charge their emo-

vee pdton’ Co ‘en. | tions. Through true stories from real people, the authors present a play-by-

play of challenges encountered, mistakes made, and lessons learned through

each of the eight steps of change--and offer tips and tools readers can apply

within their own organizations.

Books Now Available for purchase in Main Foyer

Or order: Free Call 1300 309 039 (Australia Only) or +61 8 8212 1711

information@emergingleaders.com.au

-43-

For Further Information

Books

The Heart of Change, Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 2002.

John P. Kotter On What Leaders Really Do, Boston: Harvard Business School Press,

1999,

Matsushita Leadership: Lessons from the 20th Century’s Most Remarkable Entrepreneur,

NY: Free Press, 1997.

Leading Change, Boston: HBS Press, 1996.

The New Rules: How to Succeed in a Post-Corporate World, NY: Free Press, 1995.

Corporate Culture and Performance, NY: Free Press, 1992.

A Force for Change: How Leadership Differs From Management, NY: Free Press, 1990.

Videos

Corporate Culture and Performance, Bensonville, IL: LearnCom, 1993.

Leadership, Bensonville, IL: LearnCom, 1991.

CD-ROM

Realizing Change, Boston: HBS Publishing, 1997.

Websites

JohnKotter.com

TheHeartofChange.com

-44-

This event proudly brought to you by Emerging Leaders Pty Ltd.

With many thanks to our major supporters:

e The Australian

» Australian Human Resources Institute (AHRI)

Many thanks to organisations who partnered with us to promote

the event to their members:

Melbourne, Victoria

e The Leadership Consortium

e Department of Premier and Cabinet, Workforce Development

Canberra, Australian Capital Territory

e — Institute of Public Administrators Australia (IPAA ACT)

e Australian Public Service Commission

Auckland, New Zealand

e Navigate

e Management Development Centre

e NZ Business Council for Sustainable Development (NZBCSD)

e NZ Educational Administration and Leadership Society

Brisbane, Queensland

° Office of Public Service Merit and Equity

e — Institute of Public Administrators Australia (IPAA QLD)

Sydney, New South Wales

e Public Sector Management Office

Adelaide, South Australia

e Office For The Commissioner for Public Employment

Perth, Western Australia

» Public Sector Management Division, Department of Premier and Cabinet