SOURCE: Leadership Challenges_Star Professional-Who We Are-Why We do-What We Do.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership Roles and Motivations
SUMMARY: This text discusses the three key roles (producer, manager, leader) and motivational drivers (achievement, affiliation, power) of senior-level professionals in a business context.
KEYWORDS: leadership roles, producer-manager-leader, motivational drivers, internal motivation, achievement orientation
---

ges

o)

Sa.

YG

tS

4 © Riis :

a

OD

=

OM

Ce ~

rv

ip Challen

Professional Who

Leadersh

The Producer-Manager-Leader’s Roles

Managerial Role

*Planning, budgeting, monitoring

*Meeting profitability and other metrics

*Managing risks in a disciplined manner

*End-to-end view of the business

*Building the platform for efficient execution

*Balancing short and long-term issues

*Holding self and others accountable

Producer Role

*Meeting client needs

*Executing effectively

*Generating revenue

Leadership Role

*Articulating a vision for the business

*Aligning people around the vision

*Motivating and inspiring people

*Developing people

Anticipating and driving change

Why Producer-Manager-Leaders

e Involvement in practice is necessary for credibility

e Senior level clients require it

¢ Involvement in practice is necessary to make good

business and organizational decisions

e The personal need to practice technical skills

Dilemmas of the Producer-Manager-Leader

e Constant tension between:

-Practice/client service needs

-Management needs

e Ongoing tension between:

-Short-term execution and client development needs

-Longer-term strategic and developmental needs

e Time conflict over:

- Technical aspects

- People aspects eader

anager

Consequences of the Producer-Manager-Leader Role

e Feeling of never enough time

e Being reactive, rather than proactive

e Being out of control on at least one of two roles

e High potential for “on-going guilt”

e Danger of abandoning one of the two roles

eader

anager

Technical Practice People & Organization

Motivational Profile of Producer-Manager-Leaders

e Driven by what they naturally enjoy doing most -

their “internal motivation,” which influences:

- Their allocation of time and energy

- Which of the multiple roles they prioritize

- What gets focus and what gets neglected

- Their style

- How they are experienced

- Their strengths and weaknesses

- Their developmental needs

Internal Motivation: Three Drivers

eNeed for Achievement (n Ach)

eNeed for Affiliation (n Aff)

eNeed for Power (n Pow)

Profile of Motivation Needs

Behaviors Associated with Need for Achievement (n Ach)

Sets challenging goals—e.g. to outperform existing

standards, to find new and better ways of doing tasks

Takes moderate risk—"optimize” in all areas of life

Wants personal responsibility—”project or task I can

call my own”

Seeks feedback—as frequent and specific as possible,

to help him/her do a better job. Changes behavior on

basis of feedback to optimize performance, gets Task

frustrated when unable to get data on his/her results Driven

Sometimes is “too pushy,” insisting on high standards,

while forgetting to coordinate and keep others

informed

Sometimes acts “amorally”—cuts corners, “ends justify

the means”

Likes to compete

Pushes to be number one

Profile of Motivation Needs

Behaviors Associated with Need for Affiliation (n

Uses friendship as a major criterion for deciding

how to spend time, for making decisions, etc.

Dislikes being alone: joins groups, clubs, social

organizations, or spends time with family

Puts people before tasks (e.g. chooses friends

over experts to work with); works better in a

small group than alone

Is nurturing; agrees with, sympathizes with, Relations

consoles others Driven

Communicates with others in terms of what they

seem to think, feel, or will accept, rather than in

terms of what facts, logic, or principles may dictate

Sometimes uncomfortable in new situations

with strangers

Disturbed by social disruption

“Schmooze”

Profile of Motivation Needs

Behaviors Associated with Need for Power (n Pow)

Seeks positions of leadership;

is an agent for change

Shapes organizations

Influences others to task

performance

Collects prestige objects Influence Driven

Mentors, trains, and/or

develops others

Active in organizational politics

Seeks, withholds, uses info

to control others

Implications

¢ For high need for achievement personalities in

task time, the need for achievement predominates

over the other two needs

e As a result they typically fail to provide their

people with:

-Direction

-Clear expectations

-Feedback

-Coaching

-Recognition

-Encouragement and motivation(especially when

times are tough)

e So...

-In task time, the only way for high need for

achievement personalities to leverage their

time is to redefine the TASK (success) to

include leading and managing.

Recommendations for Leaders w/ Multiple Roles

e Create a focused agenda

e Use your network to help get things done

e Leverage yourself wisely

e Take advantage of every opportunity to combine roles

Create a Focused Agenda

e A clear idea of your long-term goals

e An understanding of what you must accomplish to get

there

e A screen to judge which activities are most important,

which can be deferred and which do not matter

e A means to make choices about how to spend your

time

Use Your Network...

e Everyone with whom you have a relationship —

superiors, peers, and subordinates

e All networks operate on the basis of reciprocity—the

skill is in understanding who is in your network, the

closeness of your ties and how you can reach people

with whom you have little or no relationship

e Your internal relationships have to be managed as

carefully as your client relationships

- sound communication

- two-way exchange

- mutual trust

Leverage yourself. . .

e What are the few things that only I can do?

e Remember, you got here because you are better than

others @ most of these things. . .

e You must let others engage (even if at the 80% level to

get started)

e Be patient!

Take advantage of every opportunity. . .

e Combine your producer-manager-leader activities

e Examples:

-Coach younger professionals on the ride back to the airport

-At the beginning of an assignment, explain the goals and

let your people think through how to get there

-Don't correct everything yourself—provide guidance but let

your people do the work

-Use team meetings and one-on-ones to elicit and “sell”

new ideas

Shaping Your Agenda

Please begin creating your agenda by listing 5-8 short, medium and

long-term goals. Consider the resource required, and other factors in

achieving these goals.

Short-Term Goals Resources

Medium-Term Goals Resources

Long-Term Goals Resources