SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250730_170823-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Retail Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for sourcing and scaling retail products, including leveraging wholesalers, customizing product selection, and adapting store formats.
KEYWORDS: wholesale sourcing, product curation, retail expansion, business scaling, customer demand
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250730_170823-Meeting Recording.txt]

bops, right? They're all on fashion. Sometimes they're more on fashion than on trend than, than, than we are.

It's just that they're, they're the middle me. They're doing the creation and the design.

But, and then people come in and buy 10 of this and three of that and.

Well, there's that guy that we saw, isn't there, that the guy that Kelly took us to see in London.

The guy, the gay guy that was going to us, do you remember him?

Yeah, but I, they weren't, they weren't wholesale. They were a design.

You didn't, OK, I got it.

Yeah, they were, you sit with them instead of going to China, you go to them and.

Yeah.

And then.

They do what you've just done.

Yeah, I can see, I can see if we can get some any quicker from a wholesaler.

Yeah. Now, when you say get, you find a wholesaler.

You get it quicker because it's there. You go in and you, you'd buy it right there.

Yeah. OK.

Now, they'll also do some ordering if you're coming in that said, well, I want this.

So we've only got five of these in stock, right?

Yeah, yeah.

So they do, they go, this is high on buying 50 of those.

Well, they might even buy a thousand of them, but they have a thousand customers who have.

So I'll give you an example.

You sent me a note about the picture of the, whatever the name of the store was,

it just opened up in Westfield, right?

Yeah.

They're one store.

Yeah.

How they get started.

All right.

They won't store.

Yeah.

How they get started.

Now, there might be a backstory to how they got started.

Maybe they've hooked in this.

I don't know, but there are so many supplier.

Yeah.

Yeah.

So how they get started.

They sure as hell didn't order seven stores worth of, or maybe they did.

But just put yourself in that picture.

There's the guy who's got a chemist back in the back hours of Scotland.

And he does a little jewelry section.

And his wife can't stand at the wholesale and buy some stuff.

And.

Yeah.

They remember this.

Now, Pierre has no idea about that.

Well, no, no, should she.

Because we don't do that.

We have no expertise in it.

We don't see anybody.

People who ring us up and go, can we come and see you?

No.

You know, we.

We don't do that.

So that's what I think that we need to be thinking about.

Now, Pierre isn't going to be in the help on that.

I shouldn't say that she might be.

I think you should put in a call to say,

Jen, explain what we're up to.

And see whether she can.

Assist.

Say, Jen's excellent on product.

Thank you.

And.

Well, if it doesn't exist in the UK, which it will.

It sure is how it exists in the US.

Yeah.

The US is five times larger than the UK as a market.

There's every little thing and every little niche and every little.

Whatever's required.

Somebody's created a solution.

Okay.

And because I'm still don't want to lose the idea that we have to

substantially.

Adjust part of the store.

And or all of the store.

One store and get some product.

Yeah, we do.

We do.

We need to.

We should only be keeping like 20% of our existing products.

Yeah.

And we do need to change the store.

Now, with this.

While we're designing that, that takes time.

Now, we've say we go to the wholesaler tomorrow.

We get wholesale product.

We still need to tag it.

Still need to price it and get it into store.

So we're going to have to get tags done quicker.

Yes, all that.

Yeah.

So we've got to figure all that out fast.

Yeah.

And every day that goes by, we're learning cash.

Yeah.

So we've got tags being mocked up as we speak and real packaging

or on it.

And we'll get that sent over to us.

I'm just saying it's still not going to be next week.

It will be the week after.

That's all right.

Okay.

I wasn't expecting next week.

Okay.

I'm just checking because.

I'm just not.

What we're not going to do is accept this moment.

That we are going to have.

Product arrive on the.

24th of November.

Yeah.

That's ridiculous.

I know.

And I've spoken to them.

And I said this for bulk.

We need to test the samples.

They just.

I think they're just not as much as I explain it to them both.

There's just a lot of push back there because they just don't get it.

They're just like.

Don't.

Well, there's two reasons.

One is that because we'll screw it up.

Because.

We'll place it again.

Some machine.

Yeah, I know.

And Pia doesn't want to screw anything up.

No, neither does John.

And John doesn't want to screw anything up.

He doesn't want to screw it up because of personality.

Just.

Can't do that.

That's what makes a good.

John doesn't want to screw it up because he's the new guy.

And.

Therefore, I've got to step in now.

The reason we don't didn't involve the VISA in the first instance is for this very reason is because.

You get Lavisa iced and you can't start a business.

You got a massive machine.

You can't run the VISA without a massive machine.

Yeah.

So.

That was the strategic decision, which ends up being incorrect to keep Lavisa as far away from it as possible, but lean on Lavisa for.

Now, what we're changing here is we're bringing in.

And we've got such an in.

And it.

A bit of a minor state.

Not knowing that there was that product that.

Beautiful product that.