SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250730_170823-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategic decisions, product development, and sales strategy for a business.
KEYWORDS: strategic decision, product development, sales strategy, business, market
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250730_170823-Meeting Recording.txt]

You get Lavisa iced and you can't start a business.

You got a massive machine.

You can't run the VISA without a massive machine.

Yeah.

So.

That was the strategic decision, which ends up being incorrect to keep Lavisa as far away from it as possible, but lean on Lavisa for.

Now, what we're changing here is we're bringing in.

And we've got such an in.

And it.

A bit of a minor state.

Not knowing that there was that product that.

Beautiful product that.

Because that's sort of where the idea came from is that we stop here and there's a market here.

Yeah, it makes sense.

I should have realized.

That we had stuff that.

Was already discarded because it was already in that end.

But this is where Pia's saying they don't.

So because I asked her about this and she said, no, staff's wrong.

We don't have anything like that.

Well, we do because you said she pulled it.

And that's what I said, she said, yeah, but that's, that's just a different iteration of product that's gone into store already.

We have it.

I was like.

No, but she just being defensive, right?

She just.

She's not being defensive fit.

So.

Okay.

We have it.

You roll.

You put.

A lot in front of me, right?

And it took no time at all.

It's always the way, right?

Bang, bang, bang.

Okay.

Then we go away and go again.

How are you going to do this?

I can't do it, can't do it, can't do it, right?

So give me.

What we do need, because we're going to sell those samples, right?

That because.

We don't, we didn't really want samples to play with and design with.

We wanted.

This is what we are going to.

We're going to put up on the wall and how we're going to put it up on the wall.

Now, if we sell that.

Ten of those on the first day.

John's.

The question that John saying is.

Oh, yeah.

What's that going to do for us, Brett?

You know, so you sell 10 of those in the first day and you get yourself 50.

500 pounds.

And then there's nothing to replace it with.

We've worked most important thing we've got is it's solved.

Then we know, right?

Because what we're putting.

We're backing ourselves for a second time here is that.

We just went to old to boring to to expensive.

And you said it so well in there that we can just put that here and we can make it.

And then it becomes the part of the next level up is just selling it more than Louisa sells it out.

Right?

And.

We move.

To make sure it's better.

It's presented better.

And that creates the place.

And you said it perfectly.

And then we move up from there.

So I don't think now.

Tell me have we moved away from that from your point of view with the knowledge that you have and the time you've spent looking at.

No.

Exactly exactly where we should be.

We just need to get it in.

And we need enough of it to make an impact because we can't just put 10 pieces in.

It's not going to customers not going to see it.

It's not going to change anything.

We need to put a lot in and make a whole big thing about waterproof and sweat proof and the price.

So that it requires more than just putting in the product from my perception requires changing everything else.

So.

Which is why I'm thinking, you know, a couple of weeks, we can have it in there because we need to change a store.

We need to get tagging.

We need to.

I'm just coming.

Now you are going all this. How are you feeling alright?

Great. No, I'm feeling really good. I'm very clear in my head what we need to do.

I just want to make sure that we.

My concern is that we put in 50 pieces of product into our existing store format.

It does nothing. And then we are basically throwing the baby out of the bath water.

I'm saying it doesn't work. But my concern is that we're still not giving it the opportunity.

I have the same concern.

Because it can.

Can be execution. That's what you're saying. Execution is the problem.

And it's the store that the fixture to put that product on, which takes.

It will take a little bit of time.

That's what I'm expecting to see some of those conceptual stuff.

Got it.

Got it ready for you.

Right. And.

But there is so much that we can do, even if we take our smallest or we take a corner of our store and change it completely.

All as we need to know is that customers come in and they gravitate it over there.

And they started buying stuff.

Okay.

Now, because you can make sections of a store look like what you want.

And you can get an idea or we could.

Take our smallest or reading.

And it's easier to make it look one side is.

Okay. So I.

I have a quick idea then.

If you're happy with me to just do one part of the store and not a whole store overhaul.

And you know the version two of the wall bay in Levisa where it's got the fabric back.

And it's got the slot with the golden pegs, right?

I wonder if you have any of those left in your China warehouse.

We take one.

We put it on one of our wall bays.

And then shelves on another.

Now you're thinking.

Now you're thinking.

Because it's only one.

If there's only one part of the store, that's easier.

I was in the mindset that you wanted to.

Originally eventually we will.