SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250915_170909UTC-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Retail Management and Staffing
SUMMARY: The discussion revolves around hiring a retail manager to oversee store openings, alterations, and standards, while addressing staffing issues and the need for temporary solutions.
KEYWORDS: retail management, store operations, staffing, temporary solutions, employee performance
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250915_170909UTC-Meeting Recording.txt]

So, I have an interview on Mondays with somebody, a young girl from Pandora, who is responsible for store openings and store alterations and store standards.

That's what her title is.

She's retail manager and that's what she's responsible for.

So, that could be quite positive.

And I've reached out to about three or four other people across Pandora and Rituals that I think could be pretty good.

They look young and they look quite fresh and they, you know, so that, that is promising.

I think I'm into him.

I mean, look, Zeni cannot be in stores in the mindset she's in.

She just cannot be in stores.

So, she'll have to get her doing all the manuals and processes in the background to get all of that running in the background.

So, there's no negativity in the stores.

But in the interim, what we do have is a very willing Laura, who's a good seller and a good motivator on a three-month contract, if we want to do that.

Who?

Who's that?

Welsh Laura.

We met her before.

She came to have dinner at your house.

She worked with me at Narby.

Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

Yeah.

So, she resigned because of the travel for her.

She came on board to be a manager of the Southwest because we didn't have any stores in the Southwest.

But what she's willing to do, what she would do, is travel all over for us for the next three months on a short-term contract.

It's getting all the motivation, the selling, the store standards up while we recruit because Matab is no good.

I've got to get rid of her.

Yeah.

Matab is no good.

Laura is a good seller and she can instill those standards while we're going on.

And here's the challenge.

She needs to be a good seller.

But remember, the last thing that they're supposed to do is sell.

It's a really important thing.

The job of the leader is not to sell, to get everybody else motivated and able to sell and build the culture.

And the negative to that is it's only two months.

Now, the good news is put somebody in like you'll find somebody.

But the negative to that is there's a lot of work going to that disruption.

And you've got to own it.

But, yeah.

Well, she used to sell.

She used to train sales teams.

Like, that's what she's good at.

She knows our culture and she knows our business.

And we're not going to have anyone decent.

They're going to have a notice period.

So, I think it would be worthwhile having her bridge that gap.

Because there's not – she doesn't need to know or learn about George.

She knows it is.

And all the teams know her.

Yeah.

It's just a short-term thing, I think.

I do think it's worth it.

And what's she doing now and why isn't she doing something?

And if she's so good, what's her?

So, she resigned from Jules a few weeks ago.

So –

Yeah, but she resigned.

What happened?

That's – I'm with you now.

I now know who it is.

Sorry.

It took me a while.

But she resigned, right?

What –

She resigned because she was meant to come on and manage the Southwest.

And then we didn't have Southwest stores.

That's why Peter hired her.

But she resigned before we even opened.

So, she didn't know that.

She didn't.

She didn't.

She literally resigned, like, last month.

Right.

Exactly.

Yeah.

All right.

Well, Leah, you're the boss.

You know.

She's the one that was – is she the one that's shaking when she was doing the –

No.

No.

No.

Who am I thinking of then?

You're thinking of Elchin.

The one that was shaking while doing the welding on you.

Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Yeah.

You're thinking of Elchin.

The one that was shaking while doing the welding on you.

No.

Blood, Laura, right?

That used to work.

Yeah.

Okay.

You're in charge.

So, really, you've got to have someone that knows what to do

and can get it happening.

But you've got to look and you've got to advertise.

Yeah.

You've got to really advertise for something more senior than – okay.

Excellent.

That's good news.

It's in your hands.

Now, Martin, back room.

You and he have to design the back room because we now need to sign off

on our fit-out urgently, right?

We'll have that by Wednesday morning.

Great.

And is Martin working on the plan to work back how quickly we can –

Yeah.

He's getting that to me by tomorrow.

Doing all these stores.

Good.

And do you think that – well, let me start again.

On product, the idea forming in my head is that we can't wait

until February and we'll continue with wholesale.

But do we have a team that can – how do you think that's all going

to happen if we continue with wholesale?

Offs for Reading and White City or all four?

Probably most stores because we're stuck with them, if not all of them.

Reading and White City, we can plan for that.

That's already in the plans.

It will require us heading out there every couple of weeks

because we're stockholding.

Now, the rest of the stores – we can do the same for the rest

of the stores.

The issue is the fixtures and fittings.

They're taking a lot for Reading as it is and a lot for Spark.

Another four or five stores – I think that'll be a call

from the big boss to get that going.

Me and Steph can order the quantities we need

for the rest of the stores.

So on the basis that we can get the panels, right?

On the basis that we can get the panels, we've got to gear up for – yeah,