SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250915_170909UTC-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Retail Store Operations
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges faced in managing retail stores, including product planning, inventory management, and team dynamics.
KEYWORDS: retail operations, product planning, inventory management, team dynamics
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250915_170909UTC-Meeting Recording.txt]

Tanya is a very good person when she switched on.

But of course, she's on holidays and everybody's shit gets in the way.

So product team you need.

You need to query and make an assessment.

Don't ask the supply.

Go there on Wednesday thinking about if we had seven or eight stores, can they keep the flow

up?

If you ask them, the answer is yes.

So, yeah, you've got to ask them, but you've got to be you just got to know that can they

what will that what will they do?

And you also should be asking them now, what do they do with the things they don't sell or

can't sell?

Because they'll they'll sell things cheaper because they also have to clear out of that.

And maybe that's what we that that's a part of what we can do as well, you know, with

with the offerings that we don't really want to do them.

And but you've got to see what the value is.

And OK.

All right.

So it's pretty exciting.

Have I have we got all that covered?

Get out people.

How do we get the warehouse, the carting, the merch planning, the replenishment?

And then how do we get these stores potentially converted like White City?

And then when can we refit them fully?

And when can we open Brent's Cross fully?

And when can we open Bullring fully?

And with the new floor design.

Yeah.

Yeah.

And we've got to get Redding done ASAP so that we can see the same results out of Redding

as we're seeing out of White City.

Yeah.

Got it.

Bob's your uncle.

You're on it.

All over it.

You're up for it.

I was up for it 10 years ago.

I'm ready for it.

I, you know, I, did you not hear me say on Thursday when you were in White City, I was

like, we're going to do all the stores with the bannies.

And so everyone's like, really?

I was like, this is correct.

In us.

We're going to, yeah, we will.

I already knew.

Because why not?

Yeah, there's, there's no, we, we have to.

And how'd you go with your cousin?

She's good.

She's going to come every few weeks to store.

She's going to help me out.

Yeah.

So she comes every few weeks.

So here's the challenge that you've got.

I know you love her and you'll tell her everything I say.

And you've got people, Ness has all, she's very motivated.

She's, she wants to see you succeed.

She wants LaVisa to succeed.

So she's really motivated.

The problem is people that have no responsibility and, and just come in and, you know, spray criticism.

I know.

I already know.

She disrupts.

People will disrupt.

I distract.

It's distraction, disruption, and nobody respects it.

Yeah.

You respect it because you know that she's doing it for the good thing.

And so one of the challenges is when you have people, Ness is not like this, but I'm just using it to help you.

People have all care and no responsibility.

They're never, they're like, you know, consultants that just, what would you know, type, you don't understand it, blah, blah, blah.

So if Ness, we could find an official position to give her.

But what happens when you have somebody official is that.

She doesn't want a job.

You said that to me.

But she.

I don't want a job.

I don't want to get paid, but I'll come and help you out.

Yeah.

I know she doesn't want a job, but coming to help you out will, you'll eventually go, Ness, you're not helping.

Because she'll do what she does.

She'll come in and she'll go, this is wrong.

This is why you're doing this.

Now, she can come in and do that and then report to you.

But Ness can't help herself.

She'll want to start partly training the manager and partly, and you can't do it partly.

You're either all in or we're better off without you.

Wow.

Now, Ness knows all this, but she wants to help you.

Now, so when she says she doesn't want a job, she says, I'll come over every couple of weeks and I'll help you.

So that's a job, right?

But where it is, is Ness doesn't want a job where she has to be held.

You know, you've got to be there every Wednesday, second week.

And it's almost you can't have your cake and eat it too.

So Ness would be uniformly helpful.

But it's not helpful if it's spasmodic.

It has to be positive and it has to be have a rhythm to it.

So if she wants, she could come over and help train or spend half a day with an area manager

and tell them what they should be doing and motivate the team and leave that to her or leave it to you.

And Ness can do all that.

And it's just she gets shitty when things are shit.

I know.

And it can be distracting.

But she's not in it because she'll pick up on something that needs to be done.

But it's already being done.

But then she'll go on about why it's not done.

And it's one of those, I know exactly what you're saying.

Yeah.

So it's not tricky.

But Ness is immensely helpful to you.

But it would be even better if she said, just come over and spend half a day with you going around the stores

and not criticising in the store what's happening here, why is that.

And that is a role.

It's like come and be the creator of LaVisa that is just walking around, assessing, helping,

and then just downloading with you, not punchy.

Because your job is to be the punchy one.

And your job is to – and that is a commitment.