SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250908_164457UTC-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Retail Operations Management
SUMMARY: The discussion focuses on improving operational efficiency and performance metrics in the UK retail stores, particularly at the White City location.
KEYWORDS: retail operations, performance metrics, efficiency, White City, store labor
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250908_164457UTC-Meeting Recording.txt]

Russell, they're operating in the UK at 14, what did I tell you, last week, Leah, 13.1%,

13.1% Leah.

Now, we've got to get it under 20 in White City at least.

And we've got to hold the operations field team to that.

That's what we've got to do because we've got the turnover that says we can roster efficiently

with the right productivity coming from the team.

So I want to dig into that a little bit as well, if you wouldn't mind.

I probably think we should be getting out that I should be being copied in on a weekly

store labour for White City.

Yeah, I think I sent Leah this morning, her and Zoe, actually, Brett, just what we do

in LaVisa.

So every Monday, we get the efficiencies by store, you know, with all the good stuff,

all the KPIs, the piercing percentages and add-ons and all of those things.

And I just sent it to Zoe so that we can start getting the similar kind of report on a weekly

basis for Joules so that we can monitor it on a store-by-store basis as well.

Hey, Leah, that report that I sent this morning and then also, yeah, so we need to work on

that, Brett, yes.

Thank you.

And that goes back to our conversation whenever that was Friday, whenever we spoke, Leah,

that we've got to start putting these standards and disciplines in and holding people accountable.

We've got to get our losses down, of course.

It goes without saying.

And, of course, most of all, we're not going to succeed by cutting our costs.

We're going to succeed by getting our sales.

But we can't.

It's time for us to pay attention, particularly in White City, so that we can get the metrics

right.

That's, I think, so that all makes sense, Russell.

You've got me.

Okay, you're clear on that.

No questions, no queries?

No questions.

Perfect.

Now, if we can, we try to schedule some time.

This bloody train strike is, they're now telling me I've got to leave an hour before I would

normally leave to catch my flight on Thursday and...

Maybe more.

It's chaos, right?

All over the world, eh, Brett?

It's all over.

It's madness.

Okay.

So, yeah.

Now, okay, Russell, I think that's it for you.

When are we meeting, guys?

Am I on Thursday?

Just so I know, is it in the office or must I come in or just so we can plan?

Or, Leah, are we going to meet first and go through it?

I think we'll meet Thursday, will it, Leah?

Thursday, if you're coming to the office, Russell, and I'll send you an agenda.

Perfect.

Thanks, Leah.

And we'll, I suppose we'll try and we'll be meeting tomorrow anyway, Leah, and then we

can meet on an ad hoc basis, whatever it was needed to get ready for Thursday.

Perfect.

Thank you.

I think that I have a call Thursday morning.

So, it's probably going to be straight after that or something.

Okay.

Everyone, thank you, Russell.

Good to talk to you.

I'll see you soon.

I'll see you soon.

Thanks, guys.

See you soon.

Bye.

Oopsie.

Wrong one.

Sorry, guys.

I'm trying to find my mask to get out of this.

Come on.

You can figure it out.

I don't want to leave you guys.

You're a highly paid.

All right, champ.

How are you going?

Good.

Had a one-to-one with Zoe today.

Tell me.

She's just, I'm just a bit hard on her, I guess, but not hard on her, just pointing out

what needs to be done.

And, you know, as with Zoe, she just takes things so personally.

So, but she's okay.

She left the call feeling really motivated and positive, but she just takes things very

to heart.

But the facts are the facts.

So, she's got a to-do list.

We have a to-do list for her, and she's got to execute it.

So, we'll see how it goes.

Listen, I'm a fan of Zoe, I'm a huge fan of Zoe, because I've seen what she's done in

her career with LaVisa.

But you're right to have that conversation, because she has an area manager and herself

and seven stores.

We should have the team that is on fire and switched on, knows everything, trained with

everything.

Now, Zoe can do it.

So, we just have to, you have to find a way that gets her switched on.

She can't do it remotely.

No.

So, I hope you don't mind, but I've told her to put Ubik on the least of a priority for a

moment.

She was a bit nervous because it was something that you were trying to bring in.

But my view, the reason I say that is it's an online training platform.

We have seven stores, soon to be hopefully five.

We don't need an online training platform.

We just need to hire decent people that can sell.

So, I think that is on the list, but it's probably a bit more towards the bottom.

And I don't mind, Leah, as long as you tell me.

Yeah.

Because I just don't want you to think that because it is seven stores, it's not one, we

still need to train people and educate people, culturize people, motivate people.

And that, there's coaching and training required.

But what you're saying is all this can be done.

You got, Zoe, get to a store, Monday, train, train, train, coach, mentor, teach, fire.

Now, one of the things is just mark this down.

How many people have been exited from the business?

Because it's impossible to hire however many people we hired, however many months ago that

was, and for them all to succeed, be motivated and driven and have the right attitude.

It's impossible.

Yeah.

And we should not have any weak links.

No.