SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250905_172915UTC-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Retail Store Operations
SUMMARY: The discussion focuses on issues with store standards, cleanliness, and order fulfillment, highlighting the need to improve processes and hold staff accountable.
KEYWORDS: store standards, order fulfillment, process improvement, accountability, retail operations
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250905_172915UTC-Meeting Recording.txt]

They're just not selling to team.

The store standards, the cleanliness.

I could go on.

There's just so much there that needs to be sorted.

And, yeah, I'm just, it is what it is.

I'm bad cop at the moment, but we can't keep it going how it's going.

We're leaving money on the table for a lot of different ways.

Yes.

So standards and disciplines you're talking about.

So let me just take, because the cleanliness thing you can see.

Yeah.

And so that's on you because you can, you've got to visit the store.

You've got to see this.

Yeah.

But you've got to hold Zoe accountable.

Yeah.

But you can see it, right?

Yeah.

And people aren't looking and we're let, I think what can happen is that because it's all shit and we're clearing, we've gone, oh, it's all shit and we're clearing instead of, no, our standards and disciplines will still be high because we need to keep the practice up until we get this right.

So when you take the three days, how come you didn't know about that, like, instantly?

So you think about reports that should be coming through to you and is the system working?

Because you expect that order to be packed and shipped the same day, right?

Yeah.

So it will arrive in the morning?

Yeah.

That should be the first thing they're doing, right?

Yeah.

And it hasn't been.

That's what I'm hearing?

No.

So, no.

So I do have a report.

I have a report every day with what orders are outstanding and where.

And every day I'm back at Zoe or I'm back at Matab.

And what's been happening is for the first few days after I've said it will be fine and then it will start to drop down again.

So today I had my report come in and it's yesterday to the there's like orders then that they haven't fulfilled, basically.

And so it's taken 48 hours while targets 24 hours.

Before that, it was three days.

So it's like.

Yeah.

So we had a meeting this morning with Zoe and our head of e-com and I've put in a process.

And I'm like, I've so that that should not be happening going forward.

So tomorrow when I see the order list, that's something I'll be following up with.

Right.

Good.

So the system works and is giving it to you.

Now, I wouldn't say 24 hours.

Same day.

Because.

Yeah, that's what I meant.

Sorry.

The same.

When I say 24 hours, sorry, I meant it needs to be gone out.

But within 24 hours of having that order come in.

So same day.

Yeah.

Okay.

Got it.

I just want to make sure that you go because.

Most of the orders.

We know.

Are placed between.

Eight o'clock at night and 11 o'clock at night.

And therefore, they're sitting there waiting at whatever store.

So the.

Now, some are placed.

The next busy period is in the morning, seven to nine.

But they should be there.

So the orders that arrive at three in the afternoon, it's fair to go, okay, they can wait until the next morning.

But the vast majority of stuff and the quietest time.

In a store is the first thing in the morning.

Yeah.

In all stores.

Some of our stores don't even see a customer for two hours, right?

So cleanliness, cleaning, reorganizing, all gets done then.

But the first thing that has to happen is those orders get done.

Yeah.

It's just a discipline.

And now you have to drive that discipline and you have to be right on to it and hold people accountable.

And they're coming in going, oh, I'm busy with customers.

That's.

That's bullshit.

Yeah.

Because we've got wages at 38 percent.

Our productivity is non-existent.

Yeah.

And so.

But we have to watch all that.

Well, how many orders are they coming in?

Is it taking two hours to do?

Because people are taking too long to do the orders.

They're taking too long to find the product, right?

Because our things are not in order, right?

Because managers are just letting them fall apart.

These are the disciplines that have to be.

No retailer can succeed unless they have standards and disciplines.

Yeah.

And everybody knows about them.

Okay.

Good.

Love that.

So we're solving the wages problem up front.

Not that we're going to get ready for it or give them time.

Day one, we have the right people on.

Here's your budget.

Get your right people.

And we expect that to happen.

Now, it's one store.

The reason that I'm a bit cranky about this is because we've got seven stores.

Zoe can run seven stores on her arse.

Yeah.

It's nothing.

She can do every roster.

She knows every individual.

She can get to every one of those stores every week.

And so there should be no bad people.

There should be no undisciplined.

There should be nothing that isn't done.

Nothing.

Yeah.

So exactly what you just said there is exactly the conversation I had with her on Wednesday,

on her first day back.

Okay.

Literally word for word.

Probably.

You need to be spending at least your week should look like Monday, Tuesday product, Wednesday,

other stuff, Thursday, Friday, out in stores.

Yeah.

Somewhere.

You know, that's getting to know the people looking at now.

Of course, White City is going to be, you know, you're going to be there a lot, but even the other stores.

So that's important.

All right.

Well done.

Now, you're happy with the product you bought.

You've got enough variety.

You've got any new stuff.

Yeah, we went wider.

So we've, we've got like more matching sets and finer stuff to capture an older customer.

And then we've gone, we've got some more trend stuff that we're really like testing for the younger customer.