SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250730_170823-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Product Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses challenges with launching a new product, including lack of inventory, samples, and coordination with team members.
KEYWORDS: product launch, inventory management, communication, trial period, wholesale
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250730_170823-Meeting Recording.txt]

She wants to succeed at this.

She wants to be seen to be part of that success.

But when we said to staff, can you go, you know,

she came back and bought, you know, 30 things.

And that was after she scratched around for.

Like you haven't seen the Levisa product of us, but it is 10 times larger than.

And there is shit everywhere.

Like, which is.

I shouldn't say shit.

That's not true, but there is just samples of.

Everything.

Ideas that don't get started ideas that don't get legs rejected margin product.

I don't believe that there isn't 10 times what is in the UK.

And then we have the LA office, which is small.

You know, they all step down.

The LA is smaller again than it is in London.

But.

So.

Pia saying there isn't anything.

She's saying she sent whatever she had.

So it's on the way.

That's what she said.

Yeah.

So I don't really know.

All right, I might have to give her a little bit of a push.

So I think the next step is we've got to set up a call with you and me and and Pia.

And we should try to get that.

Sooner rather than later.

Just let me I'm just looking at my.

Yeah.

I'm going to be.

Just while I'm talking looking here, it's going to be over.

Next week on Tuesday, Wednesday.

Does that throw any spanner in the works for you?

Okay.

We should try for.

Yeah.

8 30.

Which we 7 30 your time 8 30 my time.

Yeah.

4 30 P is time on Friday the first.

Is that work for you?

Yeah.

Yeah.

Yeah.

See if you can.

Because I think I just need to get on the phone with her and thank her and just keep.

Keep redirecting.

Okay.

Yeah.

So you move the way from the idea of because what we're doing here is we're testing and trialing.

We're not relaunching.

We're just testing and and trialing.

And when you get on and see you as a say is going to be out to August and we.

That's just not going to.

No, we can't.

No, no, no.

And we can't.

There's no point in us.

Closing the store until we have a design ready to go in and actually change the store.

And so.

Yeah.

No, that's.

So, yeah, we just hopefully need to try and even wait for these samples to come or hopefully

someone can find something in Larissa.

Or are we going to have to buy a wholesale product?

I don't think we're going to need to if we, by the time we get samples in, I mean, even

if we had 20 pieces of random product, we still need, we need a bit more than that to kind of make a bit of

an impact. But by the time we get through the wholesale and purchasing product, the samples of

you here, we'll just put it into the store.

Yeah.

Because we're looking at ones two weeks.

What was just in my mind there was the, there are wholesale, so there are individual jewelers

and there are those people that market stalls and, you know, all that stuff.

That buy all their stuff from somebody that, somewhere in London, there'll be some place

where it's just a wholesale account, where you go in and it picks up.

There won't be a margin, it won't work from a margin point of view, but that's just not our concern at the moment.

And there certainly still exist, I know they still exist in New York.

Now, you can't do be orders. We're not talking about, you just, it's just there.

It's, it's like a wholesale shop.

And they will exist. We just don't know where they are because we never, we don't see anybody.

We never talk to anybody.

But then we may as well just go to Levis's warehouse and take their product directly.

Yeah, their product is, we can't.

We can do the top end of their product.

But that one, that one, well, I'm listening to you, but that wouldn't be a successful, even if it works.

It's not a successful outcome because that would be the bottom end of what we,

the Jules version two is going to be, but yes, we could do that.

Pick one of their ranges. Read, redo it now.

The challenge we have is that once we get into Levis's machine, it is a great machine.

But it isn't adaptable. It isn't flexible. It isn't nifty. It isn't nimble.

It's big.

And you, you know, you get in the, get in the process. Now, it's a good process. Don't give me wrong.

I'm not any, it's just, it's all fabulous.

But it doesn't work for us. So mark this down.

It's a wholesalers that would be selling our next level of product, where we would go in and go, OK, we want that.

These are the best sellers.

Sage in is a, who you've met, sage in.

Now, this is her background.

She only did it out of New York because America is so big.

You go into these wholesale places, like you walked down a particular street.

And there is, you just, there's literally 50 of people who are bringing in bits and

bops, right? They're all on fashion. Sometimes they're more on fashion than on trend than, than, than we are.

It's just that they're, they're the middle me. They're doing the creation and the design.

But, and then people come in and buy 10 of this and three of that and.

Well, there's that guy that we saw, isn't there, that the guy that Kelly took us to see in London.

The guy, the gay guy that was going to us, do you remember him?

Yeah, but I, they weren't, they weren't wholesale. They were a design.