SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250915_170909UTC-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Supply Chain Management
SUMMARY: The discussion focuses on the challenges of managing the supply chain, product launches, and store renovations to prepare for the upcoming holiday season.
KEYWORDS: supply chain, product launch, store renovation, Christmas, operations
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250915_170909UTC-Meeting Recording.txt]

Excellent.

On a temporary basis.

And he's going to prove himself.

So, that's just for you to mull over in your head.

So, product, supply chain.

Can the supply chain keep us going?

Can we get out there every two weeks?

Can we...

Because it gets more complicated.

Because you now got to be picking the right stuff, launch it, deliver it,

range plan it, merge plan it, send it out.

This is military precision stuff.

Yep.

Yep.

I've already been thinking about it because that was the next logical step.

So...

And Steph's pregnant.

Sure.

You know, as you can tell, it's very volatile with people and...

Yeah.

Yeah.

We've got a call tomorrow evening, right?

Hopefully.

Can we have a call?

No, there's nothing in the diary for tomorrow.

We're travelling.

I'm travelling tomorrow, the next day, the next day.

Yeah.

But I should be able to call you tomorrow because I'm in France.

But I'm on a plane.

I'll call you at some stage...

..in the car.

Okay.

I'll call you.

It'll probably be around, I don't know, 8, 8.30 your time.

Brilliant.

Yeah, so just call me when you're free.

I'm going to go and do my magic behind the scenes

and get people and everything in place

and then I'll give you a proper time frame tomorrow.

Okay.

So we've got to figure out, we've got to finalise this urgently

because nothing...

Nothing.

Nothing happens.

No.

What is it?

Oh, it's the concept of Jules Mark II.

The store design.

Okay.

Yeah.

Jesus Christ.

Door design.

We've got to do that without...

You know when you move, right, you can't see anything

because you've got your background on.

No, no.

You're just the ghost.

You're like...

I can't see you pointing at anything either.

No.

Jesus Christ.

Help me.

Help me.

We've got green screen on.

Anyway, we've got to do that.

Yeah.

We've got to get margin locked in and we've got to get...

We've got a decision to make, which logically the decision is,

and you can disagree and give me your view.

Logically, the decision is we have to revamp our current stores

because it's not expensive and we need to start to get product in

and understand what's going on with that.

We need to get the team up to scratch with the new way.

Otherwise, it's all just going to be another.

And we've got Christmas coming.

Yeah.

And we ought to be able to kick ass at Christmas.

And then in January, February, we can start to launch the stores properly.

If we can, we need to get bullring, and this is why it's important,

March, and how long do you need?

Because I don't know whether we can actually get...

Brent's Cross opened, you know, first week of December.

Would that be possible?

I don't know.

I doubt it.

I doubt it.

I'll find out.

So that's why we need to know how long we push the button on this design.

I don't know.

Do we need Tim involved in this?

Why do we need Tim?

We do.

Is he any good?

Brilliant.

I mean, look, it's Martin's call, but I think that...

So, for example, we're still getting rid of Brighton though, right?

Regardless, I think we should.

Yeah.

So, you know, just the logistics of...

Because Martin won't have to be planning everything on Brent Cross and Bullring.

He probably will need some help.

Yeah.

Okay.

So it's all urgent.

It's not Martin's call.

They're always your calls, right?

They're your and my calls.

Yeah.

You pretend that it's Martin's call, but it's always your and my call.

And we've just got to double check to see that they're all on board.

Yeah.

Because there's been a lot of disruption.

Anyway, if you are a champion, we're hopefully on our way.

Get back there and make sure we do two grand before nine o'clock.

And John's on board.

It's pretty exciting.

We need to hold it.

And we need to get Reading done ASAP, which you're on board with.

So let's figure out how long it takes to redo all these stores and plan it.

Remember, you can't do 3AMs seven days in a row.

So you've got to factor this stuff in because you saw what happened to Zoe.

She just can't do it.

It is one way to sort the men out from the boys.

Here's Tanya.

Tanya is just Tanya Smith.

Let me see what she said.

She's on holidays.

Right.

Hi, Brett.

No problem at all.

I've asked Marchand to loop me in the reading request so I can figure out best way with

the recruitment team to get them to the UK.

We'll check in with John when he is up to.

When he is up to.

I don't know what that means.

So Reading's happening.

Yeah.

But it's the rest of them that will be problematic.

But we'll overcome those.

You said to John about the other stores and the panels.

I haven't specifically said that we've pushed the button, but I said it's likely we're going

to need panels for all of the all of the stores.

How do we do that?

I mean, we're short on panels because we've we're opening more stores than we expected.

And, you know, it's nobody's issue.

But with the right intent, we can get that sorted out.

Tanya is a very good person when she switched on.

But of course, she's on holidays and everybody's shit gets in the way.

So product team you need.

You need to query and make an assessment.

Don't ask the supply.

Go there on Wednesday thinking about if we had seven or eight stores, can they keep the flow

up?

If you ask them, the answer is yes.

So, yeah, you've got to ask them, but you've got to be you just got to know that can they

what will that what will they do?