SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250908_164457UTC-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Business Optimization
SUMMARY: The discussion focuses on optimizing a new business by scrutinizing expenses, reducing costs, and improving efficiency to achieve profitability.
KEYWORDS: cost reduction, expense analysis, business optimization, profitability, efficiency
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250908_164457UTC-Meeting Recording.txt]

So, if it's easy, you can send this to me.

And so, and now, the couple of things, I'm really not interested in the forecast.

The forecast is horrible.

We don't even need to worry about forecasting.

You'll still need to, Russell, because this is a cash burn, and it needs to flow up into

cash flow to the mothership.

But we don't even know what our forecast should be because it's a brand new business.

So, it's just, it's just.

It's a percentage of pro forma.

It's a percentage of pro forma at the moment, really.

Yeah.

And it's useless.

It's wrong from the moment it's written.

What we need to do, and you can help, but Leah needs to be able to recognise, and I've got

to help Leah, is that we don't need that expense, or that should be half as much.

We just get rid of that.

That's done, right?

Now, these are easy decisions to make.

Then they've got to be enacted.

They've got to be executed.

But that's what I, I just want to have a deep dive into it.

Store administration, what is that?

Labor probably don't need from a store perspective, but from a store support, we need that labor.

So, don't need the store cost labor, but we need the labor, I want to know who they all

are, so that we can have a look at that.

Distribution is killing us.

Office administration is killing us.

So, I just want to break down all those, so that we can identify, what is this chart?

So, when you start a new business, it's about, what is that?

Do we need it?

What is it doing?

Can we halve the cost?

Can we get rid of that cost?

Can we change supplier?

This is what I want to do.

So, if you guys can start on that earlier, that's great too, but I'd be just as happy

to do it with you for a couple of hours, because we're starting to get, Leah, I think, jump

in here if you disagree.

But, Russell, we're starting to figure out what our customer wants, and she's starting

to respond.

We're not there yet, but encouraging signs.

And now we have to start running the business efficiently, as we can, and pay attention to

costs, because we've got to drive sales, but we're not going to change our loss from a

million Aussie, a million Aussie, I think, yeah, million Aussie.

And we're not going to do that in the first month, but we've got to start building in the

culture, the expectations, and the disciplines into the business.

So, when we get it right and convert these stores, then we will have no losses and start

to climb into profit.

And therefore, I want to start to get the efficiencies in there, so it's not, oh, we'll get to that.

Yeah.

Exactly, Leah, did I explain that well enough?

Yeah, you did.

So, we actually have a bit of a head start on this.

So, three weeks ago, Russell and I sat down, and so, for example, those marketing costs,

that's for August, but that's cut in half from two weeks ago now.

So, that's cut in half already.

For example, IT spend, I've already looked at the cost saving on that.

So, there's stuff that we can, we've caught up on that, we can, I can walk you through

what the plan is with it.

We've seen this.

So, yeah.

And what Leah and I were saying, but also, you know, I'm on most of the emails that go

to Leah.

So, the team will get an invoice, they'll send it to the AP team, and then Leah will approve

the invoice and code it where necessary.

And I said to Leah, you know, when those come through, yes, she's got to approve them.

But, you know, that expense is done.

But just for the future, Barry, go to the team member and say, guys, is this ultimately,

are we getting bang for buck for this?

We're spending X on marketing.

And I think it's just to look at every single invoice on a case-by-case scenario and say,

do we need this?

Is it necessary?

Are we getting a return on that spend?

And I'm fortunate.

I do see most invoices for Jules.

And if Leah and I meet, we can actually weekly go through whatever has been paid that week

and look at it on an invoice-by-invoice basis to make sure that, yeah, it's meaningful and

working for us.

Thank you.

I appreciate that.

And then my next ask is I want to dig deeper on White City.

Because if I look at store labour, for example, at 38.2, that is in many parts just a consequence

of our very low sales.

However, in that complacency creeps in because it's like, oh, what can I do?

Because I have to at least man it with one person and give them their breaks.

And when you've got very low turnovers, it's impossible.

But White City, we're now starting to get some decent turnover, not enough, but some decent

where we've got to get our labour costs under 20% because we've got to get rid of the weakness

and the fat and the excuses and we've got to figure out how we're going to, as you know,

Russell, they're operating in the UK at 14, what did I tell you, last week, Leah, 13.1%,

13.1% Leah.

Now, we've got to get it under 20 in White City at least.

And we've got to hold the operations field team to that.

That's what we've got to do because we've got the turnover that says we can roster efficiently

with the right productivity coming from the team.

So I want to dig into that a little bit as well, if you wouldn't mind.