SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250905_172915UTC-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Retail Operations Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses optimizing store staffing and wages to achieve a target labor cost percentage for a new retail store.
KEYWORDS: retail operations, labor cost management, staffing optimization, wage budgeting, performance metrics
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250905_172915UTC-Meeting Recording.txt]

We don't require specialised selling.

You have to think about whether we're going to do the things that we started with, some of those, if we, you know, the QR codes that give us some information that takes you directly to the web.

You know, we still need to think about these innovations that can probably happen.

And, but you need the store manager.

So you're starting with a fresh sheet of paper.

Is this the store manager we want for this store?

Is this the...

No, that's just the first act.

Yeah.

Nice.

Now, we might need all the team, because you're going to do 20.

We have to do 20 grand.

So you start with 20 grand, and you want 20%.

So you can spend four grand a week on wages in total.

That's add-ons.

So you can start working the other way and start disciplining, because Zoe knows how to do this.

She's just somehow lost track of it.

And so this is part of the reason why I'd rather you...

But we are overmanning every store at the moment, and it's time to get that discipline in.

And Zoe has had wages percentage beaten into it.

She's learned it.

She teaches it.

She knows how to do it.

But somehow we're just losing it.

But there is a way to do it.

So this is how you work.

So 20% would be too high.

But if you think we're going to do 20,000, which we won't in the first week...

Yeah.

So let's go with your 16 grand.

Mm-hmm.

And therefore, you've now got 3,200 to spend in wages.

Yep.

And what you need to see is, Zoe, what's the roster going to be for Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,

Saturday, Sunday?

And you need to see whether that, for a full week, is going to be more than 3,200.

Yep.

And it's really easy.

The payroll system has what we're paying that person per hour, what she will ultimately get.

And if it doesn't, you get Russell and you get this all put together so that the wages percentage gets spat out each week.

Yep.

And you can work it that way.

Am I going too fast on this?

No.

No.

So her budget, which you have to start to do in advance.

So remember, so we set it up right from day one.

And then you can break that down into what you expect to do on Wednesday and Thursday, instead of this, oh, it's the first day, and so we'll put 16 people on.

And now, maybe you might decide that for Wednesday, but come Friday, we will have only the team we want from nine to, and they will be trained and ready.

They'll be able to open the store on their own.

Yep.

And if anybody says it can't be done, you go, the UK does wages percentage in LaVisa at 13.1%.

Got it.

And that means in Westfield, they'll be doing better than that, because it's the biggest stores always do better, right?

And you want to see that, the roster and the wages at the same time.

Yep.

You want to see the percentage based upon the forecast.

And in this case, you've worked it out.

It's 3,200 for a whole week.

But you can do that by day.

Yep.

Because Saturdays are clearly, you need more people, and away we go.

Now, I'll help you with all that.

This is where you, you know how to do this, but you've been, this is how to learn to be a CEO.

You have to be across everything.

Yep.

Everything.

You've got to be able to do it yourself, figure it out.

That doesn't mean you do do it yourself.

But you've got to keep, Zoe, Zoe, here's your budget, 3,200.

Yes.

This is what's going to happen, and I want you to do me the roster for 3,200.

And then that'll be, who do we have?

Is the manager the right manager going forward?

Is the full-time, is the right manager going?

You don't like the manager?

Oh, I like her.

She's not a manager.

She's a casual team member.

We need sellers.

None of them are sellers.

Okay.

So they're all being replaced.

I've had the chat with them.

Have you had this, so you've had the conversation?

Yeah.

Okay.

I've asked her for a full plan.

She's getting it to me by Monday.

And she agrees that they're not sellers?

Yeah.

And why hasn't Zoe done anything about this?

Just because we...

That's exactly what I asked her.

Yeah.

And what'd she say?

Well, there was a lot of reasons, but not a reason.

So I've held her accountable.

In the end, she said, okay, no excuses.

I'll get on to it.

And I was like, right, I want to plan by Monday.

And I want to see who's going, who's staying, what the plan is.

Go forward, plan, leadership, everything.

So she's already started on that yesterday and today.

And I'm speaking with her on Monday about it.

And it's not just recruitment and team.

There's a whole host of other things as well that needs tightening.

Give me the top three.

The fact that they're still not taking stock that's sold, completely gone, off the shop floor.

Not fulfilling orders on time for customers.

Taking three days to do it.

They're just not selling to team.

The store standards, the cleanliness.

I could go on.

There's just so much there that needs to be sorted.

And, yeah, I'm just, it is what it is.

I'm bad cop at the moment, but we can't keep it going how it's going.

We're leaving money on the table for a lot of different ways.

Yes.

So standards and disciplines you're talking about.

So let me just take, because the cleanliness thing you can see.

Yeah.

And so that's on you because you can, you've got to visit the store.