SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250905_172915UTC-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Retail Store Operations
SUMMARY: The discussion covers product assortment, store layout, staff training, and performance metrics for the piercing business at a retail store.
KEYWORDS: product assortment, store layout, staff training, piercing performance, retail operations
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250905_172915UTC-Meeting Recording.txt]

Yeah.

Somewhere.

You know, that's getting to know the people looking at now.

Of course, White City is going to be, you know, you're going to be there a lot, but even the other stores.

So that's important.

All right.

Well done.

Now, you're happy with the product you bought.

You've got enough variety.

You've got any new stuff.

Yeah, we went wider.

So we've, we've got like more matching sets and finer stuff to capture an older customer.

And then we've gone, we've got some more trend stuff that we're really like testing for the younger customer.

And then we've got everything that's selling really well and a lot of core basics.

So the way that, so we know we already looked at how we're going to arrange the store, where it's all going to be placed.

So literally Tuesday night, it would be a case of getting the panels up and then we just plan it, plan to grime it all out.

It's exciting.

Yeah.

Can you tell me, piercing in White City?

Yeah.

What's happening?

Yeah.

So there's still been some complaints.

So, for example, the backs are still not tightening the backs on the piercings properly, which is now we still, we know there's not a piercing problem.

Right.

So the team are being retrained on that.

They're already gone into training.

So there should be no excuses.

Piercing is still our, like, still taking 20, 24, between 24 and 26% of total sales.

Across the board.

Okay.

Now, what will that be?

So here's what you've got to go.

What will that be when we're doing, let's call it 16 grand in the first four weeks?

Typically, what does, well, that would be, it would work out about 15 to 18%, right?

If we're doing those figures of total sales piercing would be.

But what is typically the aim for that?

Like, what is Levis's percentage total?

Roughly.

Because I know we're doing, like, on average, 25% of total sales piercing at the moment.

But is that good?

Or is that bad?

Or, like, do we want to do more?

Or do we want to focus more on the jewellery?

Like, what is a good?

Well, I think it's the thing that's working.

So that's the good bit of news.

The reason that I don't want to, I don't want you to focus in on LaVisa because wages is a different thing.

They're comparable.

But remember, piercing is free in LaVisa.

And it's how much are we charging for piercing in?

20 pound.

So you've got 20 pound.

Now, if LaVisa charge 20 pound, their percentage would be off the chart, right?

Yeah.

But to give you, in the UK, they're doing about 12% of their turnover on piercings.

And now, remember, it's not, there's no 20, they don't get 20 quick.

It's just, but they get the sale, right?

And that's where that comes from.

So that's really important.

One of the big earners is the, what's the stuff they sell them?

The aftercare.

The aftercare, yeah.

The aftercare, right?

Now, that's a hugely important part of piercing, and that's measured.

So these are the things which you want to get proactive on and start straight away.

But there's no question in my mind that we should do more because we're charging 20 quid.

Yeah.

Now, it's a slower process too, right?

Yeah.

Than it is.

Takes more time.

Yeah.

And we have to factor that into the whole equation.

But you've got to figure out what that's going to be.

And you've got to, so you've got to break the budget down into what do you expect?

Now, we're doing 25.

Yeah.

We ought to do more, but we're going to triple the turnover.

Yeah.

So that 25 automatically becomes eight.

So we have to do more.

So we certainly wouldn't want to see it anything less than 10% of turnover.

So you can break that down.

That's 1,600 that you expect to take.

And then you can break that down to how many piercings you expect to deliver.

Yeah.

And that's what you have to start with.

The team members know that it isn't, ah, do the best you can.

It's how many have you done?

This is what you've got to do.

Mia told me that she wanted to have her ears pierced twice or something.

Yeah.

And I can't remember what she told me, but she didn't.

The stud she wanted sold out.

Right.

But they were still on display, though.

Yeah.

They were still on display.

Right.

Now, can we have that?

Because that's not the manager's fault, right?

That's our fault.

Yeah.

So how come we didn't, was the product lost or was the product in the DC?

Was it in another store?

In another store.

Right.

So.

It's gone over from Brighton.

Yeah.

Okay.

So what did they.

Showed that there was two there.

Right.

But it's not.

Well, it will be, or it's been stolen.

So all these issues.

Where is it?

And you've got to have somebody that's running that down.

Yeah.

So I've had Becca on that.

Because we're starting store counts.

You're interrupting Leah's time.

Who's that?

No.

Bye.

That's your cousin.

She's in the store right now.

Oh, is she?

Ness is in our store right now.

Why aren't you there?

Because I've been in Reading today and she only just told me she was going in.

What store is she in?

White City.

White City.

I've asked her to shop again and she's given me lots of messages and headaches.

What's the biggest headache she's given you?

Team not selling.

Just team not selling, which is team not selling.

Yeah.

So that's a no issue and a your issue.

So and we've got to put training in, motivation in.

You know, we went through all that.

The ring trays, the ring captains, the tray captains.