SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250915_170909UTC-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Store Operations and Sales
SUMMARY: The text discusses various aspects of store operations, sales performance, and employee management within a business.
KEYWORDS: store operations, sales performance, employee management, staffing, business strategy
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250915_170909UTC-Meeting Recording.txt]

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Are you all right?

I'm okay.

Are you okay?

What's the store?

Yeah.

What's the store on?

Just about £1,000 now.

5.30.

What's your prediction?

Somewhere between 15 and 2.

Starting to get busier now.

I'm going to sneeze.

That's ridiculous.

Bloody hell.

Bloody hell.

Damn, Leah.

1,600.

1,600.

Is that what you said?

Are you sick?

No, we said that we need to hit.

We need to be ideal if we could hit around 1,500.

But we needed to do 1,500 today and 1,500 tomorrow.

Bullshit.

We're almost there.

Yeah.

Two.

Two at least.

Yes, we should.

But we said yesterday, based on the figure yesterday, if we hit 3K, to get the number we wanted.

15 today, 15 tomorrow.

But that's not the target.

Okay.

What have you done today?

I've been in the stores today, doing one-to-one.

I'm on the stores.

I've been in the office today, doing one-to-ones.

And then we did a trade meeting.

And then I've just come into the store now because I needed to bring some new products in and packaging in.

You're a champion.

Thank you.

So I'm just there and I just got caught there and there was someone in for piercing.

And I thought I'd have to cover the floor, but it was all good.

Yeah.

So that's a big point.

And it's always one-on-one today.

Yeah.

Tell me, so what's your feeling there?

She's exactly what we thought.

She's just burnt out.

She does take everything personally.

She absolutely hates the thought of something going wrong and her being held accountable for it.

She takes it on a slam of us thinking she can't do the job and that's not the case.

And obviously I reassured her of that.

But also what I found out today is her brother's now just been diagnosed on Friday with cancer again.

So she's a little bit emotional anyway.

So I think that really just kind of hit the nail on the head for her.

Yeah.

She got a bit emotional.

But it's for the best.

Yeah.

Anyway, I called her today.

So just to say I get it.

All right.

That's good news.

What about Way?

Any progress there?

Way doesn't want to go back in the stores.

To be fair to her, we've got a hell of a lot for her to do when we get any stuff on the site in the next few weeks.

But what I do have is, so I have a couple of different options.

Number one, I had a meeting with Louise today.

I'm meeting with Alicia.

Now, the opportunity for us is they're interviewing at the moment for lots of area managers.

But their pay is very low for area managers and LaVisa.

Whereas we can probably afford to pay 5K more, potentially 10K more for somebody.

And that LaVisa can.

But I said, look, any decent people you have that you interview, it's too expensive for LaVisa, send Norway.

Yeah.

So there's that option.

Leah, they, here's a tip for, they're interviewing for regional managers.

We, you don't need, you need more than a regional manager.

Yeah.

And one of the learnings is even more so in this day and age, if you want a regional manager, you have to advertise for a next level up national or something.

If you want to, if you want a national, you have to advertise for a general manager.

Now, you can't falsely advertise, but if you were to tag on to LaVisa, I think they've just advertised for a state manager.

You'd want to look through their resumes, you'd want to look through their resumes, the people that they might have passed over.

Yeah.

Because you're looking for a national manager, you're looking for a national manager.

And the, you know, the reason I use Ness as an example is she was a state manager in charge of, you know, 30 or 40 stores.

When she went and she was a national manager in the, you know, the story, she joined the, when we got together, she went and got a job as a national retail manager.

And then her boss was the one that had the idea of Diva and recognized the talent, probably employed her.

And he's never admitted to this, but he probably employed her on the basis that he was testing her out.

So now that's what you need.

Someone who was at that stage, Ness was like 25 or 26, raring to go, had a bee in a bonnet, was out to prove.

She was ambitious, driven and had experience since she was 18 on, just because you had experience doesn't make you any good.

But holding people account, traveling all over the place, getting up at five in the morning and not getting home till 10 at night.

And, you know, and those people are few and far between.

John's working on it for you.

I'm sure he's spoken to you already.

So he's thinking it through.

But you've got to aim high and we're definitely going to have to pay more than, I mean, you've got to pay.

Yeah.

Because, and then you've got somebody who can build those things out that can go and open the stores, that can stock out the stores, that can employ people, that can fire people, that can, is just a tyrant at holding people accountable, but has a personality to.

So, I have an interview on Mondays with somebody, a young girl from Pandora, who is responsible for store openings and store alterations and store standards.

That's what her title is.

She's retail manager and that's what she's responsible for.

So, that could be quite positive.

And I've reached out to about three or four other people across Pandora and Rituals that I think could be pretty good.