SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250915_170909UTC-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Operational Management
SUMMARY: The discussion focuses on the role of Ness, an advisor, in providing guidance and support to the business operations, but the need for structure, accountability, and a defined position to avoid potential issues.
KEYWORDS: advisor, operations, accountability, structure, guidance
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250915_170909UTC-Meeting Recording.txt]

Yeah.

So it's not tricky.

But Ness is immensely helpful to you.

But it would be even better if she said, just come over and spend half a day with you going around the stores

and not criticising in the store what's happening here, why is that.

And that is a role.

It's like come and be the creator of LaVisa that is just walking around, assessing, helping,

and then just downloading with you, not punchy.

Because your job is to be the punchy one.

And your job is to – and that is a commitment.

And if Ness could do that every second week or once a month or once a week, whatever Ness could do.

And she doesn't want a job.

The reason she doesn't want to get paid is not because she doesn't want to get paid.

Everyone wants to get paid.

Yes, she doesn't want the accountability.

She doesn't want –

Yeah.

And the moment you don't want accountability, you're in trouble, right?

Yeah.

Well, she was very much like, you know, Sam and Nia need me and I don't want to get overwhelmed again like I did.

I understand all of that.

But I know what you're saying.

I think there's definitely something there in it.

It's just how it will work.

And, yeah, you're right.

It's the case of going into stores and it needs to be to me, not to the store.

Or if she wants to do it at the store team, then there needs to be an official role.

Yeah.

If she wants to go to the store team, correct.

Yeah.

Yeah.

I mean, she'd be the best person to come in once every fortnight and run a manager's meeting, right?

She'd be ideal, right, come in the afternoon before, wander the stores, then have the team.

But that requires structure.

Every two weeks there's a store manager's meeting and they all come to it.

And without structure and rhythm and accountability, things don't work with the good intention.

And Ness has got a lot, a lot of reasons why she wants to succeed for the shareholding that she has, for you, important that you succeed.

She wants to help you.

But she knows all this intellectually.

And it'll only end up being a tough conversation between me and her saying, Ness, you're causing too much trouble and you don't have any position.

And we're a public company and you can't be because there's other flow on effects of this.

You know, John will go, well, who the hell is this person running around?

And then it'll be, well, it's Brett's ex-wife and a shareholder.

Well, I don't give a shout that he's a shareholder and that she's a shareholder.

And, you know, just the things I would say.

No way.

So you might need to keep working on that.

But it needs to be a bit more, and Ness doesn't want that because she wants to, she doesn't want to let anybody down, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, all that shit, right?

Yeah, yeah.

So keep that in the back of your mind because it will end in tears if we don't bundle it up.

Now, having said all that, she would be invaluable in some way that could be there.

But she's hard to lasso, and even though we're separated, I'm clearly not the boss.

She just bowls around.

She still thinks she's just, and all that stuff.

Anyway, you get it.

All right.

Okay.

All right, champ.

Go stealth and shit.

See you in a bit.

Bye.

Bye.