SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250908_164457UTC-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Internal Communications
SUMMARY: The text discusses using employee-generated content and recognition to boost morale and showcase positive company culture.
KEYWORDS: employee recognition, internal marketing, company culture, employee engagement, communication strategy
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250908_164457UTC-Meeting Recording.txt]

You.

Oh, she didn't have a look.

She didn't have a look.

Well, I'm sure he is.

Nice to meet you, Adele.

She's up to nutsticks in a second.

Perfect.

All right.

Buddy, thanks, mate.

I just wanted to check in and say thanks.

No.

I was...

Not tomorrow.

Wednesday.

Yeah.

Wednesday, yes.

Okay.

Yeah, not altered.

See you soon.

Ciao.

Bye.

Bye-bye.

He's a good egg.

He's a good egg.

He's there.

And we need...

I need to ask him.

I should have...

Just ask him to take a selfie of himself working.

These are...

I've got loads of...

I've got a photo I can share with you, actually.

I'm going to send it to you right now to get your reaction.

One second.

You have to see this.

Well, what you need sometimes, Ade, is, you know, culture and action and the two things

it does.

So you can even...

It's better if you do it from store-based guys, but Marcin's there in his shed getting

ready and you can send this out to all the team, just you, and go, this is our magnificent

Marcin at home, you know, getting it all ready.

And it sends messages.

What?

This is a video.

This is him wearing some of our new waterproof product.

Turn up the music.

I don't know what you're doing.

I don't like the F word, any, any, because it's not cultural, but I love it.

So two things.

Yes, that is totally appropriate, but it's not appropriate because you send that out to

the stores.

I didn't make it.

The marketing team did.

Yeah, and he looks good.

And you're allowed to have a bit of fun, and that's important, but here's the thing.

You send that out to the stores, and the stores just go, oh, look at those guys, all they do

is dick around.

But if you send out, here's Marcin doing his job, getting us ready for the relaunch in his

zone, thank you, thank you, thank you for blah, blah, blah, and then, by the way, here he

is being our in-house model.

Yeah.

You do those two things together.

And that's what works.

And what you're doing, culture works in a funny way.

So he's busted his ass.

Now, it's better if it's a team member or out in the stores or in the D.C. rather than,

you know, a leader where it's, you know, look at me, look at me, because they go, of course

they should be doing that because they get paid all this money.

And so you try to keep it down, but you've got to get started.

And there's a guy in his workshop doing this, going over and above any expectation, right?

And you've got to hold that up.

Yeah.

So number one, people want recognition.

Number two, it's sending a subtle message out there about what good looks like, you know,

what healthful behaviour is.

And I'll give you an example in LaVisa, right?

Yesterday, I'm with Mia and one of her friends, gone down to Cap 3000, and that's a shopping

dinner, and our LaVisa store at 2.30 in the afternoon is closed, right?

And, of course, that ruins my day.

It's like closed.

Now, it was opened.

Then I go to look at Hollister and Abercrombie and Finch and Victoria's Secrets and LaVisa,

all the things that, and then I come walking back, it's closed.

So I go off my nana and take pictures and send it off to all our leaders.

Now, now this, then I wait, I sit outside, I wait, you can imagine, and then she comes

back and opens the store, and her name is Sophie, and she's been there for the first

week.

She's a week old.

Somebody called in sick.

Nobody, the regional manager or the store manager couldn't be bothered finding a cover,

and this is the shit that, this is the shit you get.

Now, remember, LaVisa is enormously successful, right?

But guess which country is underperforming at the moment?

France, right?

And that's the reason it's underperformed, because nobody gives a shit.

First of all, the girl took a whole hour and five minutes.

We're in a crisis.

Can't you take 20 minutes and grab something?

I mean, it's all about culture, it's all about attitude, it's all about leadership,

it's all about accountability, it's all about care.

But these things happen if you let it, just nobody cares, right?

And it's a Sunday, who the hell's going to know, right?

So blah, blah, blah.

What leadership doesn't recognise is it's all the work you do beforehand,

not what you do and go in and yell at the, which is what's happening right now.

Everybody's being yelled at, right?

Not in a yelling way.

Because I've sent off a message to Mark, I sent off a message to John,

I sent off a message to Maria, I sent off a message to the country manager,

and they're all going to come down on this, feel like a tonne of bricks,

accepting it's their fault.

But it's not because you didn't build the culture.

One of the ways you do it, you have to have rules and regulations

in order they eventually become culture.

But little things like that that go out to everybody, over and above,

thank you, you know, you walk into a store, the reverse of that.

I walk into a store and find there's one person on, same store,

if you invert this.

And I'll go, why are you here on your own?

Because it's a busy store.

And she goes, oh, somebody called in sick.

And she says, I haven't had a lunch break because I don't want to close the store

because we can't let the customer down.

And she's busting to go to the toilet or then you would take a picture of her