SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250905_172915UTC-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Retail Performance Improvement
SUMMARY: The text discusses issues with a retail team's performance, including missed sales opportunities and the need for improved training, motivation, and data monitoring.
KEYWORDS: retail performance, team selling, training and motivation, data integrity, sales opportunities
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250905_172915UTC-Meeting Recording.txt]

Why aren't you there?

Because I've been in Reading today and she only just told me she was going in.

What store is she in?

White City.

White City.

I've asked her to shop again and she's given me lots of messages and headaches.

What's the biggest headache she's given you?

Team not selling.

Just team not selling, which is team not selling.

Yeah.

So that's a no issue and a your issue.

So and we've got to put training in, motivation in.

You know, we went through all that.

The ring trays, the ring captains, the tray captains.

And remember, Leah, just because you say it once.

I know.

You've got to get in there.

You've got to lead the way.

You've got to measure it.

You've got to run mystery shopper reports.

You've got to send Vanessa in and you find out these things because no one's telling you that.

I know.

Like Mia, who wanted two and couldn't find both of them.

Yeah.

And that's happening multiple times every day in every store.

So Zoe and you now need to go into every store and every store visit and go, I want a piercing of this.

Show me.

Yeah.

Because you have to run your own data integrity questions so that you can find the answers to these things.

This is the detail of retail and you've got to essentially because when you see one rat, just remember this, when you see one rat, you don't have to see the other 10 to know that they're there.

And in this case, Mia wanting to, because I assume she wanted them and would have paid for them, right?

Yeah.

And whatever that would be, that'd be 20 pounds plus the product itself.

How much would that be?

Just about 150 quid.

150 quid.

And what day was this that she was in there?

Last Saturday.

Last Saturday.

Okay.

So that's a big day.

But 150 quid on a Saturday where we took two and a half grand, right?

Or even three, I think.

Three, three and a half, I think it was.

Three and a half.

So 150 quid on three and a half is 5% of the takings that day.

Yeah, I know.

Now, that's one, right?

If it's happened to Mia, it's not that that happened, oh, that's just a one-off.

What you have to do, and Zoe has to, because Zoe's a mature leader, is you have to go, that's 5%, and that's for one customer.

And all of us can go, oh, that shit happens, you can't win everything, you know, we have sellouts, and we have this, and we have that.

Bullshit, right, is what you've got to say.

Bullshit.

This is how you win.

That's bullshit.

Where did we go wrong?

What do we do?

How do we ensure that this never happens?

We are going to run out of sales because you do sell out of things, but this is not an item we sold out of.

This is data integrity.

Where are those two things?

Have they been stolen?

Are they being misfiled?

And therefore, the team have to find them, and you then go, if that happened 10 times, 10 times 150 is 1,500.

Yeah.

And you have to assume it's 10 times.

Yeah.

Because that's, I don't make this rule up, but that's genuinely what happens.

And when you fix one thing, 10 other things that hang off that get fixed naturally.

However, the same thing is, when you screw up one thing, 10 other things that hang off that get worse over time.

So that's, and it's, you have to be that paranoid about it.

How did that happen?

Find it.

And then you go back and you also go, well, how often do we have to do our stock takes?

How often do we have to figure this out?

Why is it gone?

And we have to start worrying about these things.

You've got to start bringing them in.

All right.

Wonderful.

And I've got an issue here, which you're probably not going to like, but holiday forms.

You're not going to be there next Friday.

You should be putting in a holiday form, not taking a day off.

So I'm not planning on taking a day off.

I was planning on working remotely.

You can't work remotely.

That's just total bullshit.

Okay.

Okay.

That's, yeah.

Okay.

Fair enough.

When you're traveling, you're traveling.

You're not working.

Take a day off.

If you want to come and visit Ness, come visit her.

Take a day off.

Oh, yeah.

Okay.

Noted.

I'll get it across to you.

Thank you for...

Do I need to get it to you, though?

Or do I need to get it to someone else?

Well, I am your direct...

You're reporting to me, yes.

And now what you have to do here, though, so thank you for that, because this is the way you have to run it, because there's a thing called holiday theft, which is actually as big as shrinkage.

Oh, my God, I think I'm stealing holiday.

So this is what holiday theft is.

People don't put in their forms, but they take hold.

They're approved, so it's not...

But they don't put in their forms, and therefore they get paid, and they don't get taken off their holiday form.

It's called holiday theft.

Now, people do it without knowing it, but people do it deliberately.

Right.

It's a huge deal in retail, and you have to follow...

There's no holiday until the form is processed, and that form has to go through to payroll, and it has to be acknowledged, and you have to check up on it from time to time, right?

Yep.

So who signed off Chloe's holidays?

Chloe?

Who's Chloe?

I have no idea.

Zoe?

Zoe?

Peter did.

That was booked ages and ages ago.

And have you seen that form?