SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250908_164457UTC-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Office Meetings and Schedules
SUMMARY: The text discusses scheduling and attending office meetings, especially between teams in different locations.
KEYWORDS: office meetings, scheduling, remote work, team communication
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250908_164457UTC-Meeting Recording.txt]

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Hey, Leah.

Hi again.

Are you okay?

Yeah, and you?

I am good.

Where are you?

In London, Leah?

Yeah.

In between some places.

Running around, I'm sure.

Shame.

Yeah.

Crazy, crazy.

Are you in London this week?

Yeah.

Leah, I'm not sure.

I need to make a bigger, more habit of coming through to the office.

It's just so good to see the team, you know, and I can come across to you guys and get a

LaVisa at the same time.

So, I need to start.

I need to get into the routine of it.

The problem is most of my meetings with the Melbourne team are early morning because of

time differences.

So, by the time I finish with the morning meetings, it's 11 o'clock.

So, you get to the, you know, it's just, it's hard, but I need to.

I need to, you know, get disciplined and just put once every two weeks just come into the

office.

Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Where are you based usually?

I'm at home, Leah.

I'm in Kent.

I work from home all the time.

It's down southeast, just outside Tunbridge Wells.

Ah, nice.

So, it's about an hour commute.

It's not too bad.

Yeah.

Oh, good.

Good.

How's it going with Zoe, Leah?

Good.

Yeah.

Why'd you ask?

No, I'm just asking.

No, I'm just asking.

She was very quiet.

I know she was on leave for a while.

So, you know, normally I get a lot of questions from Zoe and that, which is great.

But she just went very quiet.

And I know Zoe well.

And when she goes quiet, but then I realized she was on leave.

So, I knew that was probably the reason.

Yeah.

No, she was.

She was away for two weeks.

But she's back in the thick of it now.

I think she's come back down to earth with a bump after a nice leave.

But no, it's all good.

It's fine.

Good.

Hey, Brett.

My God, you're looking like you've been dwarfed by this hand.

I'm just testing some backgrounds.

Zoom in or something.

I'm just testing some backgrounds.

How are you, Russell?

I'm well and yourself.

How are you, Brett?

Well, I'm excited that you're on the floor.

Short notice, but we're always happy to get an invite from you, Brett.

Leah drives me crazy every day.

So, it's nice to have a change.

Yeah.

Where is my, so I sent you guys the Jules P&L that I received today?

Yeah.

And really, Russell, all I wanted to do just was to be clear, because you and I don't speak

that often.

And so, you've got a chance to say, I don't understand what you want, Brett.

And what I would, what I'd like quickly to get, and I'm going to be arriving tomorrow night,

so we'll be discussing this maybe on Thursday.

Is that right?

I know, I just saw, I just got hopped off one call to this one, but I did see an email.

Let me, that you get the schedule, you're put together.

Let's have a look at that right now.

Where the hell is that?

I can't see the dedicated time for this.

Did I read that?

Did you send that to me?

Yeah.

Well, where the hell's it going?

I don't know.

Geez, have I deleted it already?

There's a couple of points that Julia's responded to say you need to change, so.

Yeah.

Maybe Julia's, Julia's deleted it because it's probably wrong.

That's how it works around here.

She's, anyway, I want to put in a session, Leah, to go through the P&L, but I don't really

want to go through the P&L.

I want to dig in.

So, Russell, what I would like, as soon as you can, and hopefully you'll just have all

this at your fingertips, but I want to do a deep dive into every expense and every cost

that we have.

So, I just wanted to run down the list for you.

So, I really, where we have marketing at $97,000, then I want to know every one of those

expenses.

So, now.

I've got it to you, and Brett, just Leah and I, a couple of weeks ago, we decided we're

going to meet every week, once a week.

And last week, we didn't meet, so we've actually got our call scheduled for tomorrow for an hour.

And in that call, what I want to do, Brett, is go through any anomalies where forecast is

extremely different.

And in this P&L, you can see, Leah and I met a little bit earlier, and you can see the

blatant places where we've got not wasted expenditure, but opportunity to save on expenses.

And I thought we'd go through in that detail.

And it's all to hand, Brett.

It's really not difficult to get.

We've got, you know, the P&L I can go through tomorrow with Leah.

And I've already done a GL listing, which by GL accounts, it gives the expense, whatever

currency it's in, the nature of the expense, and the supplier.

So, it's very simple to do, Brett.

Well, if you can get that to me ahead of time, so I can perhaps on the plane or something,

when I get it, I probably won't, but I get a chance.

So, if it's easy, you can send this to me.

And so, and now, the couple of things, I'm really not interested in the forecast.

The forecast is horrible.

We don't even need to worry about forecasting.

You'll still need to, Russell, because this is a cash burn, and it needs to flow up into

cash flow to the mothership.

But we don't even know what our forecast should be because it's a brand new business.

So, it's just, it's just.

It's a percentage of pro forma.

It's a percentage of pro forma at the moment, really.

Yeah.