SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250730_170823-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Product Development and Inventory Management
SUMMARY: The discussion focuses on evaluating new product samples and determining the best strategy for launching and selling them to customers.
KEYWORDS: product samples, product launch, inventory management, customer demand, sales strategy
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250730_170823-Meeting Recording.txt]

Hi.

Hello.

I'm here.

There he is. How are you?

I'm great. How are you?

I'm good.

Let me just turn you up a second. You're very soft.

Let's see what's happening. All right. You've shocked me. You've got my attention.

Where are we? We're in bringing August.

Yeah. So, yeah. So you've obviously read the email from Pierre and John.

Yeah. So.

And I've got is well, how did it go when you you spoke to them?

Yeah. They're very much.

But I said to them, look, you know, we just need a couple of samples.

We need, you know, this isn't for the bulk.

And Pierre said it's the same situation.

You said whether it's two, three, five pieces, 20 pieces is the same.

They only hold one or two pieces in the wrong plating in the thing.

But when I said, well, let's order one or two pieces per item to be fair.

John did bring up a good point. He was like, well, okay, then you sell it.

And then what? And I can see where he's coming from.

Because so.

I think later that if I can jump in the.

When we sat down.

And thought, okay.

We still believe we go to reassess.

And you were bringing it because it's like, well, why can't we do this best seller in this and charge this, right?

And we looked at those 50 best sellers, right?

Then we were to go off to China to just expand that and literally come back with that product.

Yeah, they don't love it.

So that's sort of disappointing. Now, the just keep in mind.

John's, of course, not wrong with then what?

What we need to find out is what is going to resonate with customers.

And then what is not a problem for me because what it actually is is well, then the then what is then we know.

That this product at this price in this environment is going to work.

And then I don't mind if we wait until February.

Because if we go and make all these changes and order all this product and we launch again.

That's not wrong.

Yeah.

That's the that's the issue.

So what's the only thing that's disappointing to me and just because it's disappointing doesn't mean it's not right.

But I just want to make sure that we are double checking that we need this product.

We need the sampling of Lavisa and put together.

You know, because remember that we started with what is the what I call them the rejections, but they're non non margin, whatever it's called.

I should know, but there were many of those pieces, right.

Let's get them into a store in some way now they're very entrepreneurial, but that's why you're there to figure that out so that we can go we put these things in and we.

I haven't seen any of your ideas on featuring and how to how we're going to display it yet.

And then we went.

Let's just they saw it, right.

And it they sold the then what is color you, right.

If they don't sell the then what is OK.

Now I get that it won't help us, but we can't.

We can't wait that long to do something.

We have all the samples coming for the 18th of August.

Everything that we picked is coming.

Now I wonder why we didn't ask for three samples.

We did.

All right. And what happened?

18th of August that will be arriving in London.

How many samples did I should have I read that?

One to two weeks.

So one to two weeks it will take and we've picked around 800.

And they're going to be here.

Yeah. 18th of August.

So samples, when you say samples arrived, you've got how many of each sample?

One to two pieces.

Right. That's the lighting we asked for three.

They can't so we did ask for more than that.

They have to go into bulk because of the PVD vapor or something.

They said it would have to have anything more than that would have to be a bulk.

Pia did ask them.

And they said no.

Okay.

I can get her to push.

She's saying it's not worth pushing.

Yeah.

The only other option is which we discussed.

But it's not enough of the right product is recording la vista product.

But there's not enough of it.

Okay.

So we couldn't even get to you saying that we got.

There's only one sample of each one arriving pretty much.

In some cases we have two to three.

Depending on the factory.

So we've ordered as much as we can.

And what about all the out of.

Margin product that's picking around.

In the vases.

So here saying there isn't really anything.

She said there's literally maybe 10, 5, 10 pieces sat on a desk,

which she sent to us in London.

They're on the way.

Right.

There aren't really believes that.

Because when step, you know, remember now.

I'm not.

I am not in the who does what detail.

So.

I do know that Pia wants to.

Be a part of this and is engaged, right?

Yeah.

She doesn't see this as a shit.

You guys just ignore annoying and.

Therefore, I've great faith that she wants to.

She wants to succeed at this.

She wants to be seen to be part of that success.

But when we said to staff, can you go, you know,

she came back and bought, you know, 30 things.

And that was after she scratched around for.

Like you haven't seen the Levisa product of us, but it is 10 times larger than.

And there is shit everywhere.

Like, which is.

I shouldn't say shit.

That's not true, but there is just samples of.

Everything.

Ideas that don't get started ideas that don't get legs rejected margin product.