SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250915_170909UTC-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Retail Store Refit
SUMMARY: The text discusses issues with fixtures, fittings, and product orders for the refit of several retail stores.
KEYWORDS: retail store refit, fixtures and fittings, product ordering, supply chain management
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250915_170909UTC-Meeting Recording.txt]

of the stores.

The issue is the fixtures and fittings.

They're taking a lot for Reading as it is and a lot for Spark.

Another four or five stores – I think that'll be a call

from the big boss to get that going.

Me and Steph can order the quantities we need

for the rest of the stores.

So on the basis that we can get the panels, right?

On the basis that we can get the panels, we've got to gear up for – yeah,

you're right, every two weeks you've got to go to Paris.

And then we've got to get merge planning and, you know,

everything has to get back warehouse, ticketing,

because you've got to tick it all this, right?

It's a huge job.

I can't – I don't want to cause unrealistic stuff to happen,

but we are going to – we know that we will double

or triple the sales when we do this and we've got to stop the bleeding

and then we've got to – we've got to refit.

Now, the idea is we hold off and refit, which probably won't happen

until God knows when, but probably in the new year,

in which case we suffer and suffer and suffer,

or we bite the bullet and just systematically do all the stores.

So, Reading's aiming to be done by the week –

I'm saying the 29th, we've got to next.

If you – you need to tell me by tomorrow if we can definitely push the button on this,

because I should be – I need to be ordering the product

for all those other stores on Wednesday when I go to Carrot.

Otherwise, it's another wasted trip.

And we need to know it's better if we buy, say, 1,000 shoes of that same product.

Otherwise, what will happen is we'll get the additional scoop,

which is already going to be slightly different from White City and Reading

because of the newness in wholesale.

And it will be like that, the same as the other stores,

if I don't order it all on Wednesday.

At least if we order it all on Wednesday for the other stores,

there's more consistency.

And it will make it easier for the range panning

and the barcode stickering and everything.

So, all we need to know is if you can get the OK,

we'll give you the pennies for each of those stores by Wednesday morning,

then I can go and get the product and we can get it done.

Realistically, to get the rest of the stores done,

we're probably looking at by the end of October.

So, as we enter into November.

The answer is, from a strategy point of view, the answer's easy.

We must shift into high-margin product that customers want.

What is the thing for you to think about is do you have the product team

that, yep, needs to do two-weekly trips?

So, what you're really saying is there will be two-weekly drops.

You go visit, you go place the orders.

You have to know that because one store, now you're going to ask for five

or six stores, does your supply base, your wholesale base,

even have the quantity that is going to satisfy us?

Because they won't be having 1,000 units available for...

Some of those stores only have 24 available as each product.

So, what it would mean is that some of the stores of variances look alike.

Yeah.

So...

I mean, double the barcoding, double the carding.

Yeah.

Now, that'll gear up for you, but that's why we need to...

And then you've got to have all that product carded, put into the DC,

range planned, and then you've got to allocate it.

Yeah.

Correctly.

And do replenishment.

So, it becomes a real business again.

And we've already got out of the practice and the habit of that.

Then we need data integrity.

So, we're about to, it's a bit like we're about to relaunch seven stores

and can we get the product?

Can we make sure that the systems can support it,

that we have the team that can support those systems?

Yeah.

And that's not an easy thing to do.

That's really the answer because the answer is, should we do this?

Yes.

Yeah.

Can we do this and not screw it up?

Because we don't have, we just don't...

It's just the manpower.

The systems and everything can support it.

It's just the manpower.

Yeah.

So, people, having the right people to execute.

There's no question that execution beats the strategy.

We now have the strategy.

We now have the concept.

It's not very costly for us to go in and paint and put the panels up.

It's hardly a cost at all.

We can get those panels.

There's no doubt we'll be able to get them even if we have to air freight

them over.

We'll get them.

Okay.

Then we can do a refit after Christmas.

Close one store, refit.

Close the next one, refit.

And just keep regurgitating it to come to the new look.

We also have to open up and fit out bullring and...

Print cloth.

And we need to know how quickly that can be done.

Josh got a promotion today.

Oh, okay.

He's now in charge of Europe.

Excellent.

On a temporary basis.

And he's going to prove himself.

So, that's just for you to mull over in your head.

So, product, supply chain.

Can the supply chain keep us going?

Can we get out there every two weeks?

Can we...

Because it gets more complicated.

Because you now got to be picking the right stuff, launch it, deliver it,

range plan it, merge plan it, send it out.

This is military precision stuff.

Yep.

Yep.

I've already been thinking about it because that was the next logical step.

So...

And Steph's pregnant.

Sure.