SOURCE: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250908_164457UTC-Meeting Recording.txt
SUBFOLDER: Brett & Leah
TOPIC: Customer Service and Employee Motivation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of prioritizing customer needs and acknowledging employees who go above and beyond, as it helps create a positive company culture.
KEYWORDS: customer service, employee motivation, company culture, employee recognition, problem-solving
---

[Document: Leah Uka & Brett Blundy-20250908_164457UTC-Meeting Recording.txt]

thank you, you know, you walk into a store, the reverse of that.

I walk into a store and find there's one person on, same store,

if you invert this.

And I'll go, why are you here on your own?

Because it's a busy store.

And she goes, oh, somebody called in sick.

And she says, I haven't had a lunch break because I don't want to close the store

because we can't let the customer down.

And she's busting to go to the toilet or then you would take a picture of her

and go, this is Sophie, she's been with us a week, some rascal called,

you know, you would say something not bad, but, you know, called in sick,

let her down.

But she carried on.

And you send that to, in this case, you'd send it to the entire network

of French stores.

And that's sending them, they're reading that and it's going in their heads.

They realise, ah, what you do around here is you push through.

What we do around here is the customer comes first and you get thanked

and acknowledged and that's, and it's the same thing.

And you've, just because you said to me, I've called him up and there he is

bashing the bloody things in and in his own garage.

And if that, some people will go, I'm not doing that.

It's not my, this, they should be getting made and they won't be able

to be made for three weeks.

And, right.

And, and you, and you tell that, you spin that story and you've got

to do it quickly and send it to everybody.

Now, better if it's the lower down guys, but anything you spot that's above

and beyond, sing it.

Okay.

And that helps create the culture and the vibe and the attitude

and how you get on around here, what's expected.

And those people that don't want to do that, they'll find other jobs.

They just drift out of the system.

Yeah.

Over time.

Their end is my lesson.

See you later.

What, or what, what about your mentor?

How is she, did you get slammed up against the wall?

What happened?

Oh, yeah.

She, Ness is brilliant.

I haven't spoken with her.

I haven't spoken with her, but.

Great.

Ness is great.

She's just full of tips and advice, which is good because she just wants

to help.

But I mean, she's not telling me anything that, you know, maybe one or two

things that we don't know that are being addressed, but it's,

it's good to have an outsider opinion go in from a customer perspective

because everyone knows who I am and everyone knows who Zoe is.

Well, they now know who Vanessa is.

Well, in White City.

Yeah, they do, sadly.

But no, she's good.

She's good.

I'm looking forward to seeing her this Friday.

We're going to have a glass of wine in the evening and talk about bits

and pieces.

So, yeah.

She loves it.

You know she does.

She misses it, I think.

Oh, I'm wondering whether she wants a job because she's.

Yeah.

Not my, don't let her take my job.

I don't think, I don't think she'll, I don't think you've got any fear of Ness

taking your job, but.

She doesn't want a job.

I know that.

It's a bit of a dilemma because she has no authority.

She.

So, I just, I just absolutely just, she's just brilliant.

Yeah.

All right.

Well, I haven't spoken to her since her, or have I?

Yeah, she rang you when I was on a phone to you and then you rang her back.

Yeah, yeah.

That was, was that Friday?

Yeah.

Yeah, yeah.

Yeah, yeah.

No, she did.

Because she told me she spoke to you after.

But she had to go or something.

Where, what was she?

God, that's embarrassing.

I can't remember how long she spoke to me for.

Anyway.

Okay.

So, what, are we going to have breakfast or something?

Or are you going out for girls?

Are you going chasing boys?

No, no, no.

We are, no, I was going to actually ask you if you still wanted to meet up because I'm there.

So.

Well, I don't want to interfere with you and Ness, but.

You're not interfering.

Why don't you come over for a glass of wine?

A glass of wine?

In the evening?

It's Friday evening.

Yeah.

Yeah.

Friday evening.

Why don't we have dinner?

At Ness's house?

At Ness's or a restaurant anywhere?

Are you kidding?

You can have bread.

We'll have dinner at my house.

We can do dinner at your house.

Yeah, because.

Oh, yeah, because Ness would have to cook.

Have you had her cooking?

Once.

Maybe we should do dinner at your house.

Once in 20 years.

We can always order a takeaway.

That was a disaster.

No, no.

She's she's cooking.

All right.

We'll figure that out.

Yeah.

Let's just do dinner.

All right.

Bye.

Bye bye.

Bye bye bye.

How do I go?

Let me go.