SOURCE: Leasing Location Basics.pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Leasing Strategies
SUMMARY: This document provides guidance on selecting the optimal location for a retail business, emphasizing the importance of foot traffic, avoiding certain areas, and negotiating effectively with landlords.
KEYWORDS: retail leasing, location selection, foot traffic, landlord negotiation, mall placement
---

[Document: Leasing Location Basics.pptx]
[Presentation Topic: Leasing Location Strategy]

[Slide 1]

Leasing Location Basics

October 2023

[Slide 2]

2

Leasing Location Basics

You can easily get the academic / technical definition from Chat GP

Truth is … the landlords are always trying to trick you

[Slide 3]

3

Leasing Location Basics

Look for locations with strong foot fall…where is the customer ant track

What side of the corridor are they walking on. Some say people always stick to the side of the mall the same as what side of the road they drive. So if they drive on RHS of the road the RHS of the mall will be stronger.

Look for locations in malls Infront/near vertical transport nodes & not beyond those nodes

Never near entry or exit of malls. People here are either coming of going, they are not shopping

Never close to an anchor…must be 3+doors away

Never in a side mall or a cross connecting mall

Never compromise. If there is no vacant shop where you need to be then it’s a NO. Wait until the right opportunity is available

Look out for Columns, expansion joints, ceiling heights

Never on a ramp in front or into the store

Never with steps

Look for highest foot traffic. Don’t get tricked by adjacencies as in sexy brands.

[Slide 4]

4

Leasing Location Basics

In an A mall you can have a B location & it will operate ok. While not perfect its tolerable. In  B or C centre it must be an A location. The weaker the centre the more critical the location must be spot on.

Customers, what are they wearing, do they have shopping bags & if so what brands are the buying or are they just commuters?

Never believe what a landlords or agent tells you…they polish everything. They can’t be relied upon.

Never do a landlord Group deal. There is no such thing as a landlord good deal. The only time this is a good idea is when it’s our idea.

Landlords don’t do favours. Relationships are important and we have to play it with a straight bat. Don’t get conned that they are a nice person & they will help us get a good deal. That’s just not right. It may make dealing easier & more direct but there will be no special mates rates. Landlords pay their Leasing teams highly, they are highly incentivised & their bonus are the deal driver always.

Ask for everything. Nothing is off the table.

A fast deal is always a bad deal. Whenever something is quickly agreed a lot has been left on the table.

Set your reserve & stick to it.