SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Business Software Switching Costs
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges and risks for small businesses in switching from one accounting software like QuickBooks to a competing program, highlighting the high switching costs.
KEYWORDS: accounting software, switching costs, business operations, data integration, QuickBooks
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

And in the same way that you run a risk when you

change banks that your accounts will get scrambled, a

small business owner switching from QuickBooks to

a competing program runs the risk of losing track of some

important bit of financial data that got misfiled during the

transition. If you think an unpaid gas bill from a s crambled

checking account is a problem, imagine if a small business

owner didn’t have enough cash to pay employees because

the accounting program never sent out an invoice to a

customer.

What about the benefits of switching? Maybe the

competition’s program is somewhat cheaper, or maybe it

has some features that QuickBooks lacks. But basic

accounting is about 500 years old (give or take), so it’s

not terribly likely that a new bookkeeping program could

revolutionize the way a small business keeps track of its

finances. Weighing both sides, it’s hard to see how the

benefits of switching could outweigh the costs—which is

why Intuit has dominated the market for years, and will

likely continue to dominate it.

The same story could be told of Intuit’s TurboTax,

though arguably the switching costs are somewhat lower

because there is less embedded personal data and the tax

code changes every year, giving a potential competitor an

easier entrée into the market. But a competing product

would still need to be significantly easier to use, much

cc0044..iinndddd 4477 11//2266//0088 33::0077::4444 AAMM

[48] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

cheaper, or more feature-laden to convince people who

view taxes as an annual chore to bother learning a new

tax-preparation program. Most people hate doing their

taxes, so why would they incur the additional cost of time

spent learning a new tax-prep program?

J oined at the Hip

Intuit is a classic example of one broad category of switch-

ing costs, which you might think of as companies that bene-

fit from tight integration into their clients’ businesses. Small

companies keep using QuickBooks because it becomes part

and parcel of their daily operations, and untangling it from

their business to start afresh with a new accounting pro-

gram would be costly, and possibly risky as well.

This is perhaps the most common type of switching

cost, and we see it in a wide variety of companies. Look at

Oracle, the giant software company that sells massive

database programs that large companies use to store and

retrieve huge amounts of data. Because data are rarely of

any use in their raw form, Oracle’s databases typically

need to be connected to other software programs that

analyze, present, or manipulate the raw data. (Think

about the last item you bought online—the raw data about

the product was probably sitting in an Oracle database,

but other programs pulled it together to show you the

web page from which you made your purchase.)

cc0044..iinndddd 4488 11//2266//0088 33::0077::4444 AAMM

SWITCHING COSTS [49]

So, if a company wanted to change from an Oracle

database to one sold by a competitor, not only would it

need to move all the data seamlessly from the old data-

base to the new one, but it would also have to reattach all

the different programs that pull data from Oracle. That’s

a time-consuming and expensive proposition, not to men-

tion a risky one—the conversion might not work, which

might result in a big business disruption. A competing

database would have to be phenomenally better (or

cheaper) than an Oracle database for a company to choose

to pay the massive cost of ripping out its Oracle database

and installing another one.

Data processors and securities custodians are in the

same camp as Oracle. Companies like Fiserv, Inc. and

State Street Corporation do back-office processing for

banks and asset managers—they essentially do all of the

heavy data crunching and record keeping that keep many

banks and asset managers running smoothly. These com-

panies are so tightly integrated with their clients’ busi-

nesses that they often boast retention rates of 95 percent

or better, making substantial portions of their business

essentially annuities.

Now imagine the chaos at a bank if its books didn’t

balance at night, or the disruption at a large wealth-

management firm if clients received incorrect asset pric-

ing on their statements. In this case, the risk of switching

cc0044..iinndddd 4499 11//2266//0088 33::0077::4444 AAMM

[50] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

probably outweighs any monetary or time considerations,

given how unhappy customers would be if the back-office

processing went awry. No wonder the challenge for firms

like these is not making money, but increasing sales,

because almost every client is so reluctant to leave its cur-

rent custodian or processor.

This type of competitive advantage isn’t limited to

just service and software companies, of course. For exam-

ple, there is a neat company called Precision Castparts

that sells high-tech, superstrong metal components used

in jet aircraft engines and power-plant turbines. Think for

a minute about the low tolerance for failure in these kinds

of products. Steam turbines in power plants can weigh

more than 200 tons and spin at 3,000 revolutions per

minute—imagine the consequences of a cracked turbine

blade. And of course, a jet engine breakdown at 30,000

feet would be, well, really bad.

So, it should come as little surprise that Precision has

been selling to some of its customers for more than 30

years, and that its engineers actually work together with

customers like General Electric when they design new

products. Look at the cost/benefit balance. The only ben-

efit of GE switching to a new supplier would likely be

monetary, as long as Precision keeps up its quality stan-

dards. So, by dumping Precision for someone else, GE

might be able to build turbines and jet engines for less

cc0044..iinndddd 5500 11//2266//0088 33::0077::4455 AAMM

SWITCHING COSTS [51]

money, which might help it make a larger profit margin

when it sells those products.

What about the cost? Well, the explicit cost is mean-

ingful—the new company would need to spend time get-