SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Competitive Advantage and Growth Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how some forms of growth can erode a company's competitive advantage or 'moat', using Microsoft as an example.
KEYWORDS: competitive advantage, moat, growth strategy, Microsoft, diversification
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

decent economic moat, and GE’s margins in particular

have rebounded, but Rolls’ actions hurt all three players at

the time.

T he Bad Kind of Growth

Some kinds of growth can cause moats to erode. In fact,

I’d say the single most common self-inflicted wound to

competitive advantage occurs when a company pursues

growth in areas where it has no moat. Most corporate

managers think bigger is always better (in fairness, man-

agers at larger companies tend to get paid more than

cc0088..iinndddd 111100 11//2266//0088 33::1100::1144 AAMM

ERODING MOATS [111]

managers at smaller companies, so it’s not illogical in

some respects) and so they expand into less profitable

businesses.

My favorite example of this is Microsoft. Yes, the com-

pany still has a very wide moat, but I’d argue that share-

holders in the firm over the past decade have not been well

served by the company’s attempts to expand outside of its

core operating system and office productivity franchises.

The list of sinkholes into which Microsoft has poured

money is longer than you’d think—the Zune, MSN, and

MSNBC are just a start. Did you know that the company

once tried to launch a series of kids’ toys called Actimates?

Or that it blew more than $3 billion on a bunch of Euro-

pean cable companies in the late 1990s?

Although Microsoft would likely be somewhat smaller,

in terms of employees and sales, had it never ventured

into any of these areas, the company’s phenomenal returns

on capital would have been even higher without fruitless

spending on industries in which the company had no com-

petitive advantage. What business does a software com-

pany have starting a cable news channel, for goodness’

sake?

Like many wide-moat businesses, Microsoft found

itself in the enviable position of generating more cash

than it needed to reinvest in the core Windows/Office

franchises. And—also like more than a few wide-moat

cc0088..iinndddd 111111 11//2266//0088 33::1100::1144 AAMM

[112] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

businesses—Microsoft chose to take that cash and use it

to create and expand businesses in which its competitive

advantage was much weaker. Microsoft is so ridiculously

profitable that this misuse of cash did not drag overall

returns on capital down to an unattractive level, but that’s

not the case for every company. For less profitable com-

panies, no-moat investments can hurt returns on capital

enough to make the entire corporation less attractive as

an investment.

You may be asking what Microsoft s hould have done

with all that cash flow it didn’t need to keep expanding

and improving Windows. Well, the company did use some

to expand into complementary areas that have succeeded,

such as database software and operating systems for serv-

ers. It should have just given the rest back to shareholders

as a dividend, a vastly underutilized tool for allocating cap-

ital efficiently.

A company can fill in its own moat by investing heav-

ily in areas in which it has no competitive advantage.

No, I Won’t Pay

This is more of a sign of moat erosion than a cause, but

it’s important nonetheless. If a company that has regu-

larly been able to raise prices starts getting pushback

from customers, you’re getting a strong signal that the

company’s competitive advantage may have weakened.

cc0088..iinndddd 111122 11//2266//0088 33::1100::1144 AAMM

ERODING MOATS [113]

I’ll give you a fairly current example from the analyst

team at Morningstar. In late 2006, one of our analysts

noticed that Oracle, which sells database software, was

less able to raise prices on its software maintenance con-

tracts than it had been in the past. Historically, maintenance

contracts have been one of the most lucrative segments of

companies that sell huge pieces of software to large busi-

nesses. Typically, large corporate customers have favored

maintenance done by the original vendor of the software,

because that company is presumably the most intimately

familiar with the code, and is also the most up-to-date on

new versions and features of the software. Also, Oracle

would essentially force companies into upgrading by

announcing that it would, after a time, no longer support

previous versions of the software. So, Oracle raised its

maintenance fee a little every year, and customers grum-

bled a bit but paid anyway.

So why was Oracle getting pushback on maintenance

pricing now? We did some digging, and found that a few

third-party support companies had sprung up and were

getting a decent amount of business. If a third-party com-

pany could credibly offer maintenance services, custom-

ers wouldn’t necessarily have to upgrade to a new version

of the software. This seemed like a trend that would likely

continue, placing pressure on a highly profitable revenue

stream for Oracle, and potentially narrowing its moat.

cc0088..iinndddd 111133 11//2266//0088 33::1100::1144 AAMM

[114] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

I ’ve Lost My Moat, and I Can’t Get Up

As physicist and philosopher Niels Bohr once said, “Pre-

diction is very difficult, especially if it’s about the future.”

Yet that’s exactly what we need to do when assessing the

durability of a company’s competitive advantage. But

sometimes the future throws you a curve ball, and that’s

when you need to reassess whether a company’s moat is

still intact or the unexpected turn of events has done per-

manent damage to the company’s competitive advantage.

The Bottom Line

1. Technological change can destroy competitive

advantages, but this is a bigger worry for com-

panies that are enabled by technology than it is

for companies that sell technology, because the

effects can be more unexpected.

2. I f a company’s customer base becomes more con-

centrated, or if a competitor has goals other than

making money, the moat may be in danger.

3. Growth is not always good. It’s better for a com-

pany to make lots of money doing what it is good

at, and give the excess back to shareholders, than

it is to throw the excess profits at a questionable

line of business with no moat. Microsoft could