SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Steel Industry Competition
SUMMARY: Mini-mills in the steel industry are facing increasing competition from global firms with access to low-cost steel operations in developing countries.
KEYWORDS: steel industry, competition, mini-mills, global firms, low-cost operations
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

Finally, the mini-mills are facing serious competition

from global firms like Arcelor Mittal, which have access

to very low-cost steel operations in various corners of the

developing world. (Labor costs in Kazakhstan—to name one

Arcelor Mittal mill—are pretty darn low.) As trade barri-

ers have declined and new competition with massive scale

economies has emerged, the mini-mills’ cost advantage has

lessened.

cc0066..iinndddd 8833 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5555 AAMM

[84] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

The upshot of all these cases is that process-based

cost advantages can create a temporary moat if incum-

bents are unlikely to replicate them immediately, and if

new entrants either can’t copy the process or doing so is

likely to destroy the industry’s economics. But notice that

the success of two of our examples—Dell and Southwest—

was partly based on the inaction (or bad strategy, in Gate-

way’s case) of potential competitors. A moat that is built

on lazy or stumbling competitors is not a terribly strong

one. So, process-based moats are worth watching closely,

because the cost advantage often slips away as competi-

tors either copy the low-cost process or invent one of

their own.

L ocation, Location, Location

A second type of cost advantage stems from having an

advantageous location. This type of cost advantage is

more durable than one based on process because loca-

tions are much harder to duplicate. This advantage occurs

most frequently in commodity products that are heavy

and cheap—the ratio of value to weight is low—and that

are consumed close to where they’re produced.

First, let’s return to waste haulers and aggregate pro-

ducers, those pedestrian-but-profitable businesses intro-

duced in Chapter 3 . In addition to having regulatory

moats, because few communities want a new landfill or

cc0066..iinndddd 8844 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5555 AAMM

COST ADVANTAGES [85]

gravel quarry in their neighborhood, these types of busi-

nesses have a solid location-based cost advantage as well.

The further that a garbage truck has to travel to a land-

fill, or that a dump truck full of gravel has to travel to a

construction site, the more it costs to dump the garbage

or deliver the gravel. So, companies with landfills and

quarries located closer to their customers almost invari-

ably have lower costs, which means competitors have a

hard time cracking their markets.

We can look at the quarry-level economics of an

aggregate company and see this clearly. Stone, sand, and

gravel cost roughly $7 per ton at the quarry site, and an

additional $0.10 to $0.15 per ton for every mile spent on

the back of a truck getting to the delivery site. So, just

five to seven miles of transport increase costs by 10 per-

cent, which is passed on to the customer. In practice,

these costs mean that aggregate companies have basically

a mini-monopoly on construction customers located fairly

close to the quarry, and relatively little competition within

the 50-mile radius that is roughly a quarry’s addressable

market.

Cement plants have similar economics, and similar pric-

ing power within a given cement plant’s radius. Ever wonder

why you frequently see an old cement plant near a city cen-

ter or in some other incongruous place? It’s because that

plant is likely the lowest-cost supplier of cement by far to

cc0066..iinndddd 8855 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5566 AAMM

[86] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

construction projects in that area, and is probably incredibly

profitable—which means it pays a lot of taxes, which helps

its owner to fend off local politicians who might want to put

up condos on the site. Like quarries, cement plants often

create mini-monopolies in their immediate vicinity.

Some—though not all—steel companies also have

cheaper costs based on a tough-to-replicate location. For

example, formerly state-owned Posco dominates the

Korean steel market, controlling an estimated 75 percent

of the country’s production. Although Posco has to import

raw materials, which hurts costs, its location on the same

small Korean peninsula as that country’s massive automo-

bile and shipbuilding industries gives it an advantage with

regard to transportation costs. Also, Posco is located only

a day’s shipping time from China, which means it can sup-

ply Chinese customers at a lower cost than Brazilian or

Russian mills with lower input costs but much higher trans-

portation costs. As Chinese steel producers climb up the

quality chain and are able to produce larger quantities of

high-grade steel, this advantage could erode somewhat,

but it has been a powerful one in the recent past.

I t’s Mine, All Mine

A third type of cost advantage that is generally limited to

commodity producers is access to a unique, world-class asset.

If a company is lucky enough to own a resource deposit with

cc0066..iinndddd 8866 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5566 AAMM

COST ADVANTAGES [87]

lower extraction costs than any other comparable resource

producer, it can often have a competitive advantage.

Ultra Petroleum, for example, is a midsize energy firm

that can produce and sell natural gas at an incredibly low

cost due to some advantageous properties in a part of

Wyoming. The company locked up land at a very cheap

price before its potential was widely recognized, and as a

result it is about twice as profitable as the average North

American natural-gas producer. For example, most of

Ultra’s wells cost around $7 million to drill, whereas wells

with comparable reserves elsewhere in North America cost

other companies in the neighborhood of $17 million to

$25 million to drill. That’s a massive cost advantage that

lets Ultra generate some of the highest returns on capital

among the energy companies we cover at Morningstar.

Another firm with this type of cost advantage is an

unusual little company that Morningstar has covered for

a few years called Compass Minerals, which operates in

the truly exciting rock-salt industry. (Think highway deic-

ing, not seasoning french fries.) Compass happens to own

a mine in Ontario called Goderich that produces rock salt

at some of the lowest costs on the globe due to its unique

geology—the vein it is currently mining is more than 100