SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how a company's structural competitive advantage is more important than management decisions in determining long-term profitability.
KEYWORDS: competitive advantage, management decisions, structural factors, industry dynamics, business strategy
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

run competitive advantage than that company’s structural

characteristics. *

Think back to the Janus example in Chapter 9 . Man-

agement did everything possible to run the business badly,

yet profitability returned to high levels after a few years in

the dumps. Or look at H&R Block, which earns fat

returns on capital from a great tax-preparation franchise,

*You might think this would be different at a start-up company, because

management could have a greater impact at a smaller and younger firm, but

some recent research from University of Chicago Professor Steven Kaplan

suggests that’s not the case. In a recent paper (“Should Investors Bet on

the Jockey or the Horse? Evidence from the Evolution of Firms from Early

Business Plans to Public Companies,” CRSP Working Paper 603, August

2007), he and his co-authors conclude that “at the margin, investors in

start-ups should place more weight on investing in a strong business than on

a strong management team.”

cc1100..iinndddd 113355 11//2266//0088 33::1111::4455 AAMM

[136] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

despite pouring capital into sinkholes like Olde Discount

Brokerage. Or McDonald’s, which fell woefully out of

touch with consumer tastes and for a time let customer

service fall to unacceptable levels, yet was able to turn the

business around relatively quickly based on the enduring

strength of the McDonald’s brand. In all three of these

examples, a structural competitive advantage proved to be

much more important in the long run than sub-par mana-

gerial decisions.

Now think about what happened when superstar

CEOs like Jacques Nasser, Paul Pressler, or Gary Wendt

tried to turn around Ford, the Gap, and Conseco, respec-

tively. They met with complete failure in all three cases—

bankruptcy, in Conseco’s—and it wasn’t for lack of trying

or failure of managerial intelligence. There is just not

much you can do with an automaker with structurally

higher costs than the competition, a fashion retailer with

an out-of-date brand, or a lender with too many bad loans

on its books. The best engineer in the world can’t build a

10-story sandcastle. The raw materials just aren’t there.

As he often does, Warren Buffett summed this dynamic

up best when he said, “When management with a reputa-

tion for brilliance tackles a business with a reputation for

bad economics, it is the reputation of the business that

remains intact.”

cc1100..iinndddd 113366 11//2266//0088 33::1111::4455 AAMM

THE BIG BOSS [137]

Perhaps my very favorite example of a well-regarded

CEO being humbled by brutal industry dynamics is

David Neeleman at JetBlue. Neeleman had an impecca-

ble track record when he founded JetBlue. Before that

he had started up the only airline attractive enough to

be purchased by the famously acquisition-shy Southwest

Airlines, and then he helped launch a low-cost carrier in

Canada while waiting for his noncompete agreement

with Southwest to expire. When JetBlue launched,

Neeleman’s planes were brand-new and featured in-seat

satellite TV and leather seats. Because new planes

invariably have lower costs than older planes—they need

less maintenance and they’re more efficient—JetBlue’s

financials looked great just after going public, with

17 percent operating margins and a solid 20 percent

return on equity.

Unfortunately, time doesn’t stand still, and JetBlue’s

cost structure had nowhere to go but up, as its planes aged

and employees accumulated tenure. Also, amenities like

leather seats are relatively easy to copy—which, in fact,

Southwest promptly did. Network airlines, emboldened by

strong postbankruptcy balance sheets, engaged in price

wars with JetBlue on some routes, and JetBlue’s operating

margins plunged. As of this writing, the shares are about

30 percent below their IPO price from five years ago, and

cc1100..iinndddd 113377 11//2266//0088 33::1111::4455 AAMM

[138] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

despite a few less-than-stellar managerial decisions, the

firm’s performance is largely not Neeleman’s fault. The

airline industry simply has brutal economics, and that’s

what ultimately determined the company’s difficulties.

The Celebrity CEO Complex

So why is that CEOs typically receive so much attention

from investors? There are two reasons, one obvious and

one insidious.

The obvious one is that the business media need to

attract an audience, and CEOs are an easy subject. Who

wouldn’t want to read a story about the CEO of a Fortune

500 company that is posting record profits, or watch an

interview with an executive about a company’s successful

international expansion strategy? The executives are typi-

cally happy to have the publicity, and the business reporter

is happy to oblige by writing a topical story about a com-

pany of interest. It’s a win-win for both parties, but it’s

often a disservice to investors who get the idea that these

executives control the fate of their companies the way a star

chef controls the output of his or her kitchen. Unfortu-

nately, even Charlie Trotter would be challenged by the

ingredients available in the kitchen of a local diner, and

even a brilliant CEO has limited latitude for change in a

brutal industry.

cc1100..iinndddd 113388 11//2266//0088 33::1111::4466 AAMM

THE BIG BOSS [139]

The insidious reason that managers get so much

attention as the arbiters of corporate fate is that we are all

biased. It’s inherent in human nature to want to tell stories

and see patterns that may not actually exist—we feel better

when we can identify a cause for every effect that we

observe, and identifying the causal agent as a single person

is infinitely more satisfying than blaming a “lack of compet-

itive advantage.” The truth of the matter, though, is that

CEOs have a hard time either creating a competitive advan-

tage where it doesn’t exist or damaging a competitive

advantage that is very strong to begin with.

It is very easy as an investor to remember the

exceptions—those companies that managed to dig moats

in tough industries, often through the vision of a talented

CEO. Companies like Starbucks, Dell, Nucor, Bed,

Bath, and Beyond, and Best Buy all created substantial

amounts of shareholder wealth by thriving in extremely

brutal industries. But by anchoring on the success of com-