SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Economies of Scale and Distribution Advantages
SUMMARY: The text discusses how large distribution networks can provide significant competitive advantages, with the incremental profit on each item delivered being enormous.
KEYWORDS: economies of scale, distribution networks, cost advantages, delivery, fixed and variable costs
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

cc0077..iinndddd 9922 11//2266//0088 33::0099::3388 AAMM

THE SIZE ADVANTAGE [93]

from that angle, but it is not going to have a meaningful

cost advantage over a smaller competitor.

We can break down scale-based cost advantages further

into three categories: distribution, manufacturing, and niche

markets. Although manufacturing scale tends to get all of

the attention in Economics 101, my experience is that the

cost advantages stemming from large distribution networks

or dominance of a niche market are just as powerful—and,

in an increasingly service-oriented economy, they are more

common as well.

T he Value of the Van

Large distribution networks can be the source of tremen-

dous competitive advantages, and you can easily see why

when you think about the economics of moving stuff from

point A to point B. Let’s look at the fixed and variable

costs of running a fleet of delivery trucks. The trucks

themselves—whether purchased or leased—are a fixed cost,

as are the salaries of their drivers and most of the gasoline

that the trucks need to consume as they trundle along their

routes. The only real variable costs are overtime wages for

busy periods, and some proportion of the gas. (You might

think of the fixed fuel cost being what is needed for the

truck to complete its normal route, and the variable cost

being what’s consumed if the truck needs to go to an out-

of-the-way location not on the usual route.)

cc0077..iinndddd 9933 11//2266//0088 33::0099::3388 AAMM

[94] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

Although building and operating the delivery network is

an expensive proposition for a base level of service, the

incremental profit on each item that the truck fleet delivers

is enormous. Think about it—once the fixed costs are cov-

ered, delivering an extra item that is on a delivery route

is extremely profitable because the variable cost of making

an extra stop is almost nothing. Now imagine that you need

to try to compete with a company that has an established

distribution network. It has likely covered its fixed costs

and is making large incremental profits as it delivers more

stuff, while you’ll need to take on large losses for a time until

(if ) you gain enough scale to become profitable.

One of the main reasons, in fact, that United Parcel

Service (UPS) has much higher returns on capital than

rival FedEx is that it earns a larger proportion of its oper-

ating profits from door-to-door delivery of packages, as

opposed to overnight letter services. A dense ground

delivery network has much better returns on capital than

an overnight express service. A delivery van that’s only

half full will still likely cover its costs, whereas a half-full

cargo jet with time-sensitive packages likely will not.

Many businesses with delivery networks can dig this

type of economic moat. Consider Darden Restaurants,

which operates the Red Lobster chain of casual seafood res-

taurants in the United States. It may not sound exciting,

but getting reasonably fresh seafood to 650 restaurants

cc0077..iinndddd 9944 11//2266//0088 33::0099::3388 AAMM

THE SIZE ADVANTAGE [95]

across an entire continent is not a small task—and having a

large distribution network allows Darden to accomplish

this more efficiently and at a lower cost than its competi-

tors. With many more restaurants than its closest competitor,

Darden clearly benefits from distribution scale.

Moving from tasty crab legs to the less palatable world

of medical waste, you can also see a huge distribution advan-

tage in a company called Stericycle, which is the largest com-

pany collecting and disposing of medical waste in the United

States. Stericycle is 15 times larger than its nearest competi-

tor, giving it unrivaled route density. Having more stops per

route leads directly to more profitable routes, higher returns

on capital, and a wider economic moat—a large and dense

distribution network means that Stericycle can potentially

underprice competitors and still generate higher profits.

Large distribution networks are extremely hard to

replicate, and are often the source of very wide economic

moats. We see this in companies from Sysco, the largest

food-service distributor in the United States, to Fastenal,

one of the largest U.S. distributors of fastening products

for manufacturing firms, to large beverage companies

such as Coca-Cola, Pepsi, and Diageo.

B igger Can Be Better

Cost advantages can also stem from manufacturing scale.

The classic example of this is a factory with an assembly

cc0077..iinndddd 9955 11//2266//0088 33::0099::3399 AAMM

[96] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

line. The closer the factory is to 100 percent capacity, the

more profitable it is, and the larger the factory, the easier

it is to spread fixed costs like rent and utilities over a

larger volume of production. Also, the larger the factory,

the easier it is to specialize by individual tasks or to mech-

anize production. Arguably, the prevalence of this type of

cost advantage has diminished somewhat in the recent

past as enormous low-cost pools of labor in China and

Eastern Europe have become integrated into the global

economy, causing some manufacturing to shift away from

Europe and North America. Still, it’s a very real advan-

tage for some companies.

Perhaps the best example is Exxon Mobil Corpora-

tion, which has lower operating costs than any of the

other supermajor integrated oil companies by virtue of

achieving scale economies in many of its operating seg-

ments. Although the scale advantage is less apparent in

the company’s upstream operations that explore for and

extract oil and natural gas, it’s very apparent in the firm’s

refining and chemical operations, which have returns on

capital that dwarf those of competitors like Valero and

BASF Corporation.

Manufacturing scale needn’t be limited to owning a

larger production facility than the competition. If we

think about scale simply in terms of spreading fixed costs

over a larger sales base, we can see that n onmanufacturing

cc0077..iinndddd 9966 11//2266//0088 33::0099::3399 AAMM

THE SIZE ADVANTAGE [97]

companies can also benefit from economies of scale.

Video-game giant Electronic Arts, for example, has an