SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Business Valuation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of accurately valuing a company and the importance of focusing on the likelihood of future financial performance rather than precise business value.
KEYWORDS: business valuation, competitive advantage, financial performance, growth rate, market price
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

into two hurdles.

First, every company is slightly different, which makes

comparisons tough. Growth rates, returns on capital,

strength of competitive advantage, and a host of other

factors all affect the value of a business, so comparing two

companies with each other is likely to be a difficult exercise.

cc1122..iinndddd 116600 11//2288//0088 77::2277::0033 PPMM

WHAT’S A MOAT WORTH? [161]

(It is useful in some cases—more on that later in this chapter.)

Second, the value of a company is directly tied to its

future financial performance, which is unknown, though

we can obviously make some educated guesses. For these

reasons, most people focus on the information that is eas-

ily attainable about stocks (their market prices) rather than

the information that is harder to obtain (their business

values).

That’s the bad news. The good news is that you don’t

need to know the precise value of a company before buy-

ing its shares. All you need to know is that the current

price is l ower than the most likely value of the business. That

may sound confusing, so let me give you an example.

In the summer of 2007, I noticed that a company I’d

had on my radar screen for some years, called Corporate

Executive Board, had dropped in price by about half over

the previous year. The company had been growing sales

and earnings at a blistering pace of over 30 percent per

year for a few years, and for a variety of reasons, things

hit a wall—sales growth slowed considerably, and earnings

growth dropped to about 10 percent. I did some research,

and I was convinced that the company had plenty of room

left to grow in its market. I was also confident that Cor-

porate Executive Board’s competitive position was still

very strong. Would the company return to its 30 percent

growth rate, or would future growth be lower, say 15 percent?

cc1122..iinndddd 116611 11//2288//0088 77::2277::0033 PPMM

[162] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

I really didn’t know, and the valuation of the shares was

very different under those two scenarios.

So why did I buy the stock? Because while I did not

know exactly what Corporate Executive Board’s shares

were worth, I did know that the stock price at the time

implied that the market was assuming a 10 percent growth

rate. So, my task was simply to decide how likely it was

that the company would never grow faster than 10 percent.

Based on my research, I thought that was a very unlikely

outcome, and so I bought the stock. If the company

returned to a 15 percent growth rate, my investment

would do pretty well, and if the company returned to a

20(cid:1) percent growth rate, I’d have a home run. Only if

the company decelerated to a single-digit growth rate

would I lose money, and I thought the odds of that hap-

pening were acceptably low.

In this example, I reverse-engineered the price of the

shares to see what kinds of growth expectations were

baked in. The key takeaway is that I didn’t have to know

exactly what the future would bring; I just had to know that

the future was very likely going to brighter than the share

price implied. In the case of Corporate Executive Board,

I thought the stock could be worth anywhere from $85 to

$130, but I was confident that the stock would not be

worth much less than its $65 share price. (Time will tell if

I was right.)

cc1122..iinndddd 116622 11//2288//0088 77::2277::0044 PPMM

WHAT’S A MOAT WORTH? [163]

The simple exercise of estimating the value of a share of

a company is the key to buying stocks for less than their

potential value, because in order to buy the shares for less

than their value, you need to have some idea of what that

value is. (It sounds simple, but you’d be amazed at how many

investors have never tried to value the stocks they buy.)

W hat Is a Company Worth, Anyway?

It’s a simple question, so here’s a simple answer: A stock

is worth the present value of all the cash it will generate in

the future. That’s it.

Let’s pick this idea apart a bit. Companies create

value by investing capital and generating a return on that

investment. Some of the cash that a company generates

pays operating expenses, some gets reinvested back in the

business, and the remainder is what’s called “free cash

flow.” Free cash flow is often called “owner earnings,”

because that’s really what it is—the amount of money that

could be extracted from a business every year by the firm’s

owners without harming the company’s operations.

Think of free cash flow like the money a landlord

clears at the end of every year. The owner of an apart-

ment building gets rent (sales), pays for the mortgage and

some annual upkeep (operating expenses), and occasion-

ally spends some money for major repairs like a new roof

or new windows (capital expenditures). What’s left over

cc1122..iinndddd 116633 11//2288//0088 77::2277::0044 PPMM

[164] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

is his or her personal free cash flow, which can be

tucked away in a bank account, spent on a nice Florida

vacation, or used to buy another apartment building. But

whatever the landlord uses it for, it’s not money that is

needed to keep the apartment building functioning as a

cash- generating enterprise.

Sticking with the landlord example, let’s think about

what would make a building full of rental apartments worth

more or less to a prospective purchaser. Growth would

certainly push the value up—if a building had an adjacent

patch of land on which a landlord could build more apart-

ments, it would be worth more than a building without that

land, as the stream of potential future rental income would

be larger. The same goes for the riskiness of the rental

income—a building full of seasoned wage-earners would be

worth more than the same building full of college students,