SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: This text discusses the concept of economic moats, which refers to sustainable advantages that protect a company from competitors, and how it is fundamental to Morningstar's approach to business and stock investing.
KEYWORDS: economic moats, business strategy, sustainable advantage, Morningstar, stock investing
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

Chapter Two

Mistaken Moats 15

Chapter Three

Intangible Assets 29

ffttoocc..iinndddd vviiii 22//11//0088 1122::5566::1100 PPMM

[viii] CONTENTS

Chapter Four

Switching Costs 43

Chapter Five

The Network Effect 57

Chapter Six

Cost Advantages 75

Chapter Seven

The Size Advantage 91

Chapter Eight

Eroding Moats 103

Chapter Nine

Finding Moats 115

Chapter Ten

The Big Boss 133

Chapter Eleven

Where the Rubber Meets the Road 143

ffttoocc..iinndddd vviiiiii 22//11//0088 1122::5566::1100 PPMM

CONTENTS [ix]

Chapter Twelve

What’s a Moat Worth? 159

Chapter Thirteen

Tools for Valuation 171

Chapter Fourteen

When to Sell 187

Conclusion

More than Numbers 197

ffttoocc..iinndddd iixx 22//11//0088 1122::5566::1100 PPMM

ffttoocc..iinndddd xx 22//11//0088 1122::5566::1100 PPMM

Foreword

(cid:1)

W

I Morningstar in 1984, my goal was to help

HEN STARTED

individuals invest in mutual funds. Back then, a few financial

publications carried performance data, and that was about

it. By providing institutional-quality information at afford-

able prices, I thought we could meet a growing need.

But I also had another goal. I wanted to build a business

with an “economic moat.” Warren Buffett coined this term,

which refers to the sustainable advantages that protect a com-

pany against competitors—the way a moat protects a castle.

I discovered Buffett in the early 1980s and studied Berk-

shire Hathaway’s annual reports. There Buffett explains the

moat concept, and I thought I could use this insight to help

ffllaasstt..iinndddd xxii 22//11//0088 1122::5566::3300 PPMM

[xii] FOREWORD

build a business. Economic moats made so much sense to

me that the concept is the foundation for our company and

for our stock analysis.

I saw a clear market need when I started Morning-

star, but I also wanted a business with the potential for a

moat. Why spend time, money, and energy only to watch

competitors take away our customers?

The business I envisioned would be hard for a competi-

tor to replicate. I wanted Morningstar’s economic moat to

include a trusted brand, large financial databases, proprie-

tary analytics, a sizable and knowledgeable analyst staff,

and a large and loyal customer base. With my background

in investing, a growing market need, and a business model

that had wide-moat potential, I embarked on my journey.

Over the past 23 years, Morningstar has achieved

considerable success. The company now has revenues of

more than $400 million, with above-average profitability.

We’ve worked hard to make our moat broader and deeper,

and we keep these goals in mind whenever we make new

investments in our business.

Moats, however, are also the basis of Morningstar’s

approach to stock investing. We believe investors should

focus their long-term investments on companies with

wide economic moats. These companies can earn excess

returns for extended periods—above-average gains that

should be recognized over time in share prices. There’s

ffllaasstt..iinndddd xxiiii 22//11//0088 1122::5566::3300 PPMM

FOREWORD [xiii]

another plus: You can hold these stocks longer, and that

reduces trading costs. So wide-moat companies are great

candidates for anyone’s core portfolio.

Many people invest by reacting: “My brother-in-law

recommended it” or “I read about it in M oney.” It’s also

easy to get distracted by daily price gyrations and pundits

who pontificate about short-term market swings. Far better

to a have a conceptual anchor to help you evaluate stocks

and build a rational portfolio. That’s where moats are

invaluable.

While Buffett developed the moat concept, we’ve

taken the idea one step further. We’ve identified the most

common attributes of moats, such as high switching costs

and economies of scale, and provided a full analysis of

these attributes. Although investing remains an art, we’ve

attempted to make identifying companies with moats more

of a science.

Moats are a crucial element in Morningstar’s stock

ratings. We have more than 100 stock analysts covering

2,000 publicly traded companies across 100 industries. Two

main factors determine our ratings: (1) a stock’s discount

from our estimated fair value, and (2) the size of a com-

pany’s moat. Each analyst builds a detailed discounted cash

flow model to arrive at a company’s fair value. The analyst

then assigns a moat rating—Wide, Narrow, or None—

based on the techniques that you’ll learn about in this

ffllaasstt..iinndddd xxiiiiii 22//11//0088 1122::5566::3300 PPMM

[xiv] FOREWORD

book. The larger the discount to fair value and the larger

the moat, the higher the Morningstar stock rating.

We’re seeking companies with moats, but we want to

buy them at a significant discount to fair value. This is what

the best investors do—legends like Buffett, Bill Nygren at

Oakmark Funds, and Mason Hawkins at Longleaf Funds.

Morningstar, though, consistently applies this methodology

across a broad spectrum of companies.

This broad coverage gives us a unique perspective on the

qualities that can give companies a sustainable competitive

advantage. Our stock analysts regularly debate moats with

their peers and defend their moat ratings to our senior staff.

Moats are an important part of the culture at Morningstar

and a central theme in our analyst reports.

In this book, Pat Dorsey, who heads up our stock

research at Morningstar, takes our collective experience and

shares it with you. He gives you an inside look at the thought

process we use in evaluating companies at Morningstar.

Pat has been instrumental in the development of our

stock research and our economic moat ratings. He is sharp,

well-informed, and experienced. We’re also fortunate that

Pat is a top-notch communicator—both in writing and

speaking (you’ll often see him on television). As you’re

about to find out, Pat has a rare ability to explain investing

in a clear and entertaining way.

ffllaasstt..iinndddd xxiivv 22//11//0088 1122::5566::3300 PPMM

FOREWORD [xv]

In the pages that follow, Pat explains why we think

making investment decisions based on companies’ eco-

nomic moats is such a smart long-term approach—and,

most i mportant, how you can use this approach to build

wealth over time. You’ll learn how to identify companies

with moats and gain tools for determining how much a

stock is worth, all in a very accessible and engaging way.

Throughout the book, you’ll learn about the economic

power of moats by studying how specific companies with