SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Business Strategy and Valuation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the concept of economic moats, which can increase the value of companies and should be considered when investing.
KEYWORDS: economic moats, competitive advantage, business valuation, investment strategy, returns on capital
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

maintaining and expanding its business.

*To calculate present value, we adjust the sum of those future cash flows

for their timing and certainty. A dollar in the hand is more valuable than

one in the bush, so to speak, and cash we’re confident of receiving in the

future is worth more than cash flows we’re less certain about receiving. I’ll

go over some basic valuation principles in Chapters 12 and 13, so don’t

worry if this isn’t clear just yet.

cc0011..iinndddd 88 11//2266//0088 33::0055::5577 AAMM

ECONOMIC MOATS [9]

So, let’s compare two companies, both growing at

about the same clip, and both employing about the same

amount of capital to generate the same amount of cash.

One company has an economic moat, so it should be able

to reinvest those cash flows at a high rate of return for a

decade or more. The other company does not have a moat,

which means that returns on capital will likely plummet as

soon as competitors move in.

The company with the moat is worth more today because

it will generate economic profits for a longer stretch of time.

When you buy shares of the company with the moat, you’re

buying a stream of cash flows that is protected from compe-

tition for many years. It’s like paying more for a car that you

can drive for a decade versus a clunker that’s likely to conk

out in a few years.

In Exhibit 1 .1 , time is on the horizontal axis, and

returns on invested capital are on the vertical axis. You

can see that returns on capital for the company on the left

side—the one with the economic moat—take a long time

to slowly slide downward, because the firm is able to keep

competitors at bay for a longer time. The no-moat com-

pany on the right is subject to much more intense compe-

tition, so its returns on capital decline much faster. The

dark area is the aggregate economic value generated by

each company, and you can see how much larger it is for

the company that has a moat.

cc0011..iinndddd 99 11//2266//0088 33::0055::5588 AAMM

[10] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

EXHIBIT 1.1 Company with an Economic Moat versus a Company

without a Moat

Company with an Economic Moat Company without an Economic Moat

Time Horizon Time Horizon

So, a big reason that moats should matter to you as

an investor is that they increase the value of companies.

Identifying moats will give you a big leg up on picking

which companies to buy, and also on deciding what price

to pay for them.

M oats Matter for Lots of Reasons

Why else should moats be a core part of your stock-pick-

ing process?

Thinking about moats can protect your investment

capital in a number of ways. For one thing, it enforces

investment discipline, making it less likely that you will

overpay for a hot company with a shaky competitive

advantage. High returns on capital will a lways be com-

peted away eventually, and for most companies—and their

investors—the regression is fast and painful.

cc0011..iinndddd 1100 11//2266//0088 33::0055::5588 AAMM

latipaC

detsevnI

no

nruteR

latipaC

detsevnI

no

nruteR

ECONOMIC MOATS [11]

Think of all the once-hot teen retailers whose brands

are now deader than a hoop skirt, or the fast-growing

technology firms whose competitive advantage disap-

peared overnight when another firm launched a better

widget into the market. It’s easy to get caught up in fat

profit margins and fast growth, but the d uration of those

fat profits is what really matters. Moats give us a frame-

work for separating the here-today-and-gone-tomorrow

stocks from the companies with real sticking power.

Also, if you are right about the moat, your odds of per-

manent capital impairment—that is, irrevocably losing a ton

of money on your investment—decline considerably. Com-

panies with moats are more likely to reliably increase their

intrinsic value over time, so if you wind up buying

their shares at a valuation that (in hindsight) is somewhat

high, the growth in intrinsic value will protect your invest-

ment returns. Companies without moats are more likely to

suffer sharp, sudden decreases in their intrinsic value when

they hit competitive speed bumps, and that means you’ll

want to pay less for their shares.

Companies with moats also have greater resilience,

because firms that can fall back on a structural competi-

tive advantage are more likely to recover from temporary

troubles. Think about Coca-Cola’s disastrous launches of

New Coke years ago, and C2 more recently—they were

both complete flops that cost the company a lot of money,

cc0011..iinndddd 1111 11//2266//0088 33::0055::5588 AAMM

[12] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

but because Coca-Cola could fall back on its core brand,

neither mistake killed the company.

Coke also was very slow to recognize the shift in con-

sumer preferences toward noncarbonated beverages such as

water and juice, and this was a big reason behind the firm’s

anemic growth over the past several years. But because Coke

controls its distribution channel, it managed to recover some-

what by launching Dasani water and pushing other newly

acquired noncarbonated brands through that channel.

Or look back to McDonald’s troubles in the early

part of this decade. Quick-service restaurants are an

incredibly competitive business, so you’d think that a firm

that let customer service degrade and failed to stay in

touch with changing consumer tastes would have been

complete toast. And in fact, that’s the way the business

press largely portrayed Mickey D’s in 2002 and 2003. Yet

McDonald’s iconic brand and massive scale enabled it to

retool and bounce back in a way that a no-moat restaurant

chain could not have done.

This resiliency of companies with moats is a huge psy-

chological backstop for an investor who is looking to buy

wonderful companies at reasonable prices, because high-

quality firms become good values only when something

goes awry. But if you analyze a company’s moat prior to it

becoming cheap—that is, before the headlines change