SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Competitive Advantages and Economic Moats
SUMMARY: Examines how some companies can maintain high returns on capital for long periods by developing competitive advantages or 'economic moats' that protect them from competition.
KEYWORDS: return on capital, competitive advantages, economic moats, wealth compounding, competitive threats
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

(bad businesses). A company that can generate high returns

on its capital for many years will compound wealth at a very

prodigious clip.*

Companies that can do this are not common, how-

ever, because high returns on capital attract competitors

like bees to honey. That’s how capitalism works, after

all—money seeks the areas of highest expected return,

which means that competition quickly arrives at the door-

step of a company with fat profits.

So in general, returns on capital are what we call

“mean-reverting.” In other words, companies with high

returns see them dwindle as competition moves in, and

*Return on capital is the best benchmark of a company’s profitability. It

measures how effectively a company uses all of its assets—factories, people,

investments—to make money for shareholders. You might think of it in

the same way as the return achieved by the manager of a mutual fund, ex-

cept that a company’s managers invest in projects and products rather than

stocks and bonds. More about return on capital in Chapter 2.

cciinnttrroo..iinndddd 33 11//2266//0088 33::1144::5599 AAMM

[4] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

companies with low returns see them improve as either they

move into new lines of business or their competitors leave

the playing field.

But some companies are able to withstand the relent-

less onslaught of competition for long periods of time, and

these are the wealth-compounding machines that can form

the bedrock of your portfolio. For example, think about

companies like Anheuser-Busch, Oracle, and J ohnson &

Johnson—they’re all extremely profitable and have faced

intense competitive threats for many years, yet they still

crank out very high returns on capital. Maybe they just

got lucky, or (more likely) maybe those firms have some

special characteristics that most companies lack.

How can you identify companies like these—ones that

not only are great today, but are likely to stay great for

many years into the future? You ask a deceptively simple

question about the companies in which you plan to invest:

“What prevents a smart, well-financed competitor from

moving in on this company’s turf ? ”

To answer this question, look for specific structural

characteristics called competitive advantages or economic

moats. Just as moats around medieval castles kept the

opposition at bay, economic moats protect the high

returns on capital enjoyed by the world’s best companies.

If you can identify companies that have moats and you

can purchase their shares at reasonable prices, you’ll build

cciinnttrroo..iinndddd 44 11//2266//0088 33::1155::0000 AAMM

THE GAME PLAN [5]

a portfolio of wonderful businesses that will greatly

improve your odds of doing well in the stock market.

So, what is it about moats that makes them so spe-

cial? That’s the subject of Chapter 1 . In Chapter 2 , I

show you how to watch out for false positives—company

characteristics that are commonly thought to confer

competitive advantage, but actually are not all that reli-

able. Then we’ll spend several chapters digging into the

sources of economic moats. These are the traits that

endow companies with truly sustainable competitive advan-

tages, so we’ll spend a fair amount of time understanding

them.

That’s the first half of this book. Once we’ve estab-

lished a foundation for understanding economic moats,

I’ll show you how to recognize moats that are eroding,

the key role that industry structure plays in creating com-

petitive advantage, and how management can create (and

destroy) moats. A chapter of case studies follows that

applies competitive analysis to some well-known compa-

nies. I’ll also give an overview of valuation, because even

a wide-moat company will be a poor investment if you pay

too much for its shares.

cciinnttrroo..iinndddd 55 11//2266//0088 33::1155::0000 AAMM

cciinnttrroo..iinndddd 66 11//2266//0088 33::1155::0000 AAMM

h

a p te r

O

C n

e

Economic Moats

(cid:1)

What’s an Economic Moat, and

How Will It Help You Pick

Great Stocks?

F

, it’s common sense to pay more for some-

ORMOSTPEOPLE

thing that is more durable. From kitchen appliances to cars

to houses, items that will last longer are typically able to

command higher prices, because the higher up-front cost

will be offset by a few more years of use. Hondas cost more

than Kias, contractor-quality tools cost more than those

from a corner hardware store, and so forth.

cc0011..iinndddd 77 11//2266//0088 33::0055::5577 AAMM

[8] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

The same concept applies to the stock market. Durable

companies—that is, companies that have strong competitive

advantages—are more valuable than companies that are at

risk of going from hero to zero in a matter of months

because they never had much of an advantage over their

competition. This is the biggest reason that economic

moats should matter to you as an investor: Companies with

moats are more valuable than companies without moats.

So, if you can identify which companies have economic

moats, you’ll pay up for only the companies that are really

worth it.

To understand why moats increase the value of compa-

nies, let’s think about what determines the value of a stock.

Each share of a company gives the investor a (very) small

ownership interest in that firm. Just as an apartment build-

ing is worth the present value of the rent that will be paid by

its tenants, less maintenance expenses, a company is worth

the present value* of the cash we expect it to generate over

its lifetime, less whatever the company needs to spend on

maintaining and expanding its business.

*To calculate present value, we adjust the sum of those future cash flows

for their timing and certainty. A dollar in the hand is more valuable than

one in the bush, so to speak, and cash we’re confident of receiving in the

future is worth more than cash flows we’re less certain about receiving. I’ll

go over some basic valuation principles in Chapters 12 and 13, so don’t

worry if this isn’t clear just yet.

cc0011..iinndddd 88 11//2266//0088 33::0055::5577 AAMM

ECONOMIC MOATS [9]

So, let’s compare two companies, both growing at