SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Sustainable Competitive Advantage
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of economic moats and sustainable competitive advantages in maintaining long-term profitability, contrasting the experiences of Chrysler's minivans and Gentex's rearview mirrors.
KEYWORDS: economic moats, competitive advantage, profit margins, commodity industries, Chrysler, Gentex
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

tainly juice short-term results. For example, Chrysler vir-

tually printed money for a few years when it rolled out the

first minivan in the 1980s. Of course, in an industry where

fat profit margins are tough to come by, this success did

not go unnoticed at Chrysler’s competitors, all of whom

rushed to roll out minivans of their own. No structural

characteristic of the automobile market prevented other

firms from entering Chrysler’s profit pool, so they crashed

the minivan party as quickly as possible.

Contrast this experience with that of a small auto-parts

supplier named Gentex, which introduced an automatically

dimming rearview mirror not too long after C hrysler’s

minivans arrived on the scene. The auto-parts industry is

no less brutal than the market for cars, but Gentex had a

slew of patents on its mirrors, which meant that other

cc0022..iinndddd 1177 11//2266//0088 33::0066::3300 AAMM

[18] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

companies were simply unable to compete with it. The

result was fat profit margins for Gentex for many years,

and the company is still posting returns on invested capital

north of 20 percent more than two decades after its first

mirror hit the market.

One more time, with feeling: Unless a company has

an economic moat protecting its business, competition

will soon arrive on its doorstep and eat away at its profits.

Wall Street is littered with the dead husks of companies

that went from hero to zero in a heartbeat.

Remember Krispy Kreme? Great doughnuts, but no eco-

nomic moat—it is very easy for consumers to switch to a dif-

ferent doughnut brand or to pare back their doughnut con-

sumption. (This was a lesson I had to learn the hard way.) Or

how about Tommy Hilfiger, whose brands were all the rage

for many years? Overzealous distribution tarnished the brand,

Tommy clothing wound up on the closeout racks, and the

company fell off a financial cliff. And of course, who can for-

get Pets.com , eToys, and all the other e-commerce web sites

that are now just footnotes to the history of the Internet

bubble?

More recently, the ethanol craze is an instructive exam-

ple. A confluence of events in 2006, including high crude oil

prices, tight refining capacity, a change in gasoline standards,

and a bumper crop of corn (the main input for ethanol), all

combined to produce juicy 35 percent operating margins for

cc0022..iinndddd 1188 11//2266//0088 33::0066::3300 AAMM

MISTAKEN MOATS [19]

the most profitable ethanol producers, and solid profitability

for almost all producers. Wall Street hyped ethanol as the

next big thing, but unfortunately for investors who valued

ethanol stocks as if they could sustain high profits, ethanol is

a classic no-moat business. It’s a commodity industry with no

possible competitive advantage (not even scale, since a huge

ethanol plant would actually be at a cost d isadvantage because

it would draw corn from a much larger area, driving up input

costs, and it would have to process all of its residual output,

which consumes a lot of natural gas). So, you can guess what

happened next.

A year later, crude prices were still high and refining

capacity in the United States was still tight, but corn

prices had skyrocketed, refineries had switched over to the

new gasoline standard, and lots more ethanol producers

had entered the market. As a result, operating margins

plunged for all ethanol producers, and they were actually

negative for one of the largest producers. W ithout an eco-

nomic moat, a company’s financial results can turn on a dime.

To be fair, it is occasionally possible to take the success

of a blockbuster product or service and leverage it into an

economic moat. Look at Hansen Natural, which markets the

Monster brand of energy drinks that surged onto the market

in the early part of this decade. Rather than resting on its lau-

rels, Hansen used Monster’s success to secure a long-term

distribution agreement with beverage giant Anheuser-Busch,

cc0022..iinndddd 1199 11//2266//0088 33::0066::3300 AAMM

[20] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

giving it an advantage over competitors in the energy-drink

market.

Anyone who wants to compete with Monster now has

to overcome Hansen’s distribution advantage. Is this

impossible to do? Of course not, because Pepsi and Coke

have their own distribution networks. But it does help

protect Hansen’s profit stream by making it harder for

the next upstart energy drink to get in front of consum-

ers, and that’s the essence of an economic moat.

What about a company that has had years of success,

and is now a very large player in its industry? Surely, com-

panies with large market shares must have economic

moats, right?

Unfortunately, bigger is not necessarily better when it

comes to digging an economic moat. It is very easy to

assume that a company with high market share has a sus-

tainable competitive advantage—how else would it have

grabbed a big chunk of the market?—but history shows us

that leadership can be fleeting in highly competitive

markets. Kodak (film), IBM (PCs), Netscape (Internet

browsers), General Motors (automobiles), and Corel (word

processing software) are only a few of the firms that have

discovered this.

In each of these cases, a dominant firm ceded signifi-

cant market share to one or more challengers because it

failed to build—or maintain—a moat around its business.

cc0022..iinndddd 2200 11//2266//0088 33::0066::3311 AAMM

MISTAKEN MOATS [21]

So, the question to ask is not w hether a firm has high mar-

ket share, but rather h ow the firm achieved that share,

which will give you insight into how defensible that domi-

nant position will be.

And in some cases, high market share makes very little

difference. For example, in the orthopedic-device i ndustry—

artificial hips and knees—even the smaller players crank out

very solid returns on invested capital, and market shares

change glacially. There is relatively little benefit to being

big in this market, because orthopedic surgeons typically

don’t make implant decisions based on price.