SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Cost Advantage
SUMMARY: The text discusses companies that have cost advantages, such as Compass Minerals and Aracruz Cellulose, and how these advantages can create durable competitive advantages.
KEYWORDS: cost advantage, competitive advantage, natural resource, scale advantage, location advantage
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

lets Ultra generate some of the highest returns on capital

among the energy companies we cover at Morningstar.

Another firm with this type of cost advantage is an

unusual little company that Morningstar has covered for

a few years called Compass Minerals, which operates in

the truly exciting rock-salt industry. (Think highway deic-

ing, not seasoning french fries.) Compass happens to own

a mine in Ontario called Goderich that produces rock salt

at some of the lowest costs on the globe due to its unique

geology—the vein it is currently mining is more than 100

feet thick—and massive size. Compass also benefits from

the Goderich mine’s location under Lake Huron, allowing

Compass to ship salt into the American Midwest at very

cc0066..iinndddd 8877 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5566 AAMM

[88] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

low cost along rivers and canals. Because salt is pretty

cheap, low transportation costs add to Compass’s com-

petitive advantage, and being near a steady source of

demand—on average, the Midwest has pretty nasty winter

weather—helps as well.

If you look hard enough, you’ll find that this type of

competitive advantage is not limited to companies that dig

stuff out of the ground. Look at Aracruz Cellulose, a

Brazilian company that happens to be not only the largest

producer of paper pulp in the world, but also the lowest-

cost producer. Why? Well, it’s pretty easy—the eucalyp-

tus trees that it uses for pulp grow faster in Brazil than

anywhere else in the world. (Seedlings mature in about

seven years in Brazil, compared with 10 years in neighbor-

ing Chile, and 20+ years in temperate climates like

North America.) It’s not hard to see that if Aracruz’s

resource base refreshes itself every seven years, while the

competition takes 50 to 200 percent longer to grow trees,

then Aracruz will be able to produce more pulp with less

invested capital than anyone else.

I t’s Cheap, But Does It Last?

Cost advantages can be extremely powerful sources of

competitive advantage, but some are more likely to last a

long time than others. Process-based advantages usually

bear close watching, because even if they do last for some

cc0066..iinndddd 8888 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5566 AAMM

COST ADVANTAGES [89]

period of time, it’s often because of some temporary limi-

tation on competitors’ ability to copy that process. Once

that limitation disappears, the moat can get a lot narrower

very quickly. Location-based cost advantages and low

costs based on ownership of some unique asset are much

more durable and easier to hang one’s analytical hat on.

Companies with location advantages often create mini-

monopolies, and world-class natural resource deposits are

by definition pretty hard to replicate.

The big kahuna of cost advantages, of course, is

scale, and scale advantages can create extremely durable

economic moats. When is bigger really better? That’s

the subject of the next chapter.

The Bottom Line

1. Cost advantages matter most in industries where

price is a big part of the customer’s purchase

decision. Thinking about whether a product or

service has an easily available substitute will steer

you to industries in which cost advantages can

create moats.

2. C heaper processes, better locations, and unique

resources can all create cost advantages—but keep

a close eye on process-based advantages. What

one company can invent, another can copy.

cc0066..iinndddd 8899 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5566 AAMM

cc0066..iinndddd 9900 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5577 AAMM

a p t er S e

h v

C e

n

The Size Advantage

(cid:1)

Bigger Can Be Better, If You Know

What You’re Doing.

B

relatively better.

IGGER IS ONLY

When you’re thinking about cost advantages that stem

from scale, remember one thing: The absolute size of a

company matters much less than its size relative to rivals.

Two massive firms that dominate an industry—for example,

Boeing and Airbus—are unlikely to have meaningful scale-

based cost advantages relative to each other. But as we’ll

discuss further later in this chapter, even a company that is

cc0077..iinndddd 9911 11//2266//0088 33::0099::3388 AAMM

[92] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

pretty small in absolute terms can have quite a solid moat

if it is much larger than its competition.

To understand scale advantages, it’s important to remem-

ber the difference between fixed and variable costs. If

you think about your local grocery store, its fixed costs

are rent, utilities, and salaries for some base level of

staffing. The variable costs would be the wholesale cost

of the merchandise that the store needs to stock the

shelves, and perhaps extra compensation costs for high-

traffic times of the year like the holidays. A real-estate

brokerage office, by contrast, would have almost exclu-

sively variable costs. Aside from an office, a phone, a

car, and a computer with a link to the database of homes

for sale, an agent doesn’t have many costs aside from

commissions, which vary with real-estate sales: no sales,

no commissions.

Very broadly speaking, the higher the level of fixed

costs relative to variable costs, the more consolidated an

industry tends to be, because the benefits of size are greater.

It’s no surprise that there are only a few national package-

delivery companies, or automobile manufacturers, or micro-

chip producers—but there are thousands of small real-estate

agencies, consultancies, law offices, and accounting agen-

cies. A law firm with 1,000 lawyers has no cost advantage

over a law firm with 10 lawyers. It may have a greater range

of services it can offer, and it may get additional business

cc0077..iinndddd 9922 11//2266//0088 33::0099::3388 AAMM

THE SIZE ADVANTAGE [93]

from that angle, but it is not going to have a meaningful

cost advantage over a smaller competitor.

We can break down scale-based cost advantages further

into three categories: distribution, manufacturing, and niche

markets. Although manufacturing scale tends to get all of

the attention in Economics 101, my experience is that the

cost advantages stemming from large distribution networks

or dominance of a niche market are just as powerful—and,

in an increasingly service-oriented economy, they are more

common as well.

T he Value of the Van