SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Stock Investment Analysis
SUMMARY: The text discusses reasons to sell a stock, such as deteriorating fundamentals or a change in the original investment thesis.
KEYWORDS: stock selling, investment decisions, anchoring bias, fundamentals analysis
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

into financial trouble, and they were a lot more worried

about paying their bills—especially the interest on their

debt—than they were in building new theaters. I was down

quite a bit on the investment by the time I figured this

out, but I sold anyway. Good thing I did, too, because the

shares subsequently plunged to penny-stock territory.

cc1144..iinndddd 118899 11//2266//0088 33::1144::2277 AAMM

[190] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

I should note that this is far easier said than done,

because we tend to anchor on the price at which we bought

a stock, and we hate losing money. (In fact, numerous

psychological studies have proved that people experience

almost twice as much pain when they lose money than

they experience pleasure when they gain the exact same

amount.) This behavior causes us to focus on irrelevant

information—the price at which we purchased a stock,

which has zero effect on the company’s future prospects—

instead of much more relevant information, such as the

fact that our original assessment of the company’s future

may have been flat-out wrong.

One trick you can use to avoid anchoring is this: Each

time you buy a stock, write down why you bought it and

roughly what you expect to happen with the company’s

financial results. I’m not talking about quarterly earn-

ings forecasts, just rough expectations: Do you expect sales

growth to be steady or to accelerate? Do you expect

profit margins to go up or down? Then, if the company

takes a turn for the worse, pull out your piece of paper

and see whether your reasons for buying the stock still

make sense. If they do, hold on or buy more. But if they

don’t, selling is likely your best option—r egardless of

whether you’ve made or lost money on the shares.

The second reason to sell is if a company’s fundamen-

tals deteriorate substantially and don’t look like they’re

cc1144..iinndddd 119900 11//2266//0088 33::1144::2277 AAMM

WHEN TO SELL [191]

going to rebound. For a long-term investor, this is likely to

be one of the more common reasons to sell: Even the best

companies can hit a wall after years of success. You may

very well have been 100 percent right in your initial assess-

ment of the company’s prospects, its valuation, and its com-

petitive advantages, and you may have had a lot of success

owning the stock—but as economist John Maynard Keynes

once said, “When the facts change, I change my mind.”

Here’s a recent example from a company I once cov-

ered for Morningstar: Getty Images. This is a fascinating

company that capitalized on photography’s digital migra-

tion by building a massive database of digital images that

it distributes to ad agencies and other large image con-

sumers. Getty essentially became the industry’s largest

marketplace for images, making it easy for photographers

to upload images to its database, and for image users to

find exactly the image they need. For a time it was a great

business, with strong growth rates, high returns on capi-

tal, and massive operating leverage.

So what happened? Essentially, the same digital tech-

nology that built the company made it less relevant. As

high-quality digital imaging became more accessible to a

wider range of users, it became easier to create professional-

quality images with cheaper cameras. This led to the rise

of web sites selling images that were admittedly lower-

quality than the average Getty image, but that were much

cc1144..iinndddd 119911 11//2266//0088 33::1144::2277 AAMM

[192] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

cheaper (a few dollars versus a few hundred dollars), and

good enough for less demanding users. Couple this with

the fact that online images don’t need to be of as high

quality as ones used in print media, and Getty’s economics

and growth prospects changed markedly for the worse.

The third reason to sell is that you come across a better

place for your money. As an investor with limited capital,

you want to always be sure that your investments have the

highest possible expected return. So, selling a modestly

undervalued stock to fund the purchase of a ridiculously

mouth-watering opportunity is perfectly logical—and a

darned good idea. Of course, taxes come into play here, and

you may need a larger difference in potential upside to jus-

tify a sale in a taxable account than in a tax-qualified one,

but it is nonetheless something to keep in mind. I wouldn’t

recommend constant portfolio tweaking to move from stocks

with 20 percent upside to stocks with 30 percent upside, but

when a great opportunity comes along, sometimes you need

to sell an existing stock to fund the idea.

For example, when the market sold off during the

credit crunch in late summer of 2007, financial services

stocks were absolutely crushed. Some were deservedly so,

but as is usually the case, Wall Street threw a lot of babies

out with the bathwater, and many stocks were whacked

down to ridiculously cheap levels. Now, I normally keep at

least 5 to 10 percent of my personal account in cash so

cc1144..iinndddd 119922 11//2266//0088 33::1144::2277 AAMM

WHEN TO SELL [193]

that I have dry powder for occasions just like this one—you

never know when the market will lose its mind—but for a

number of reasons, I was caught with very little spare cash

during this particular sell-off. So, I started comparing the

potential upside from my existing positions with some of

the financial stocks that Wall Street was putting on sale.

The net result was that I sold a position that I hadn’t

owned for very long, but which had only modest upside

potential, to fund the purchase of a bank trading at below

book value, which had already agreed to be taken over at a

higher price—a very worthwhile trade-off.

Remember that sometimes the better place for your

money may very well be cash. If a stock has far surpassed

what you think it is worth and your expected return from