SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Financial Analysis
SUMMARY: The text discusses various financial ratios, such as ROE, ROA, and ROIC, which are used to assess a company's profitability and efficiency.
KEYWORDS: ROE, ROA, ROIC, financial ratios, profitability
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

so it’s a good idea to look at ROE alongside how much

debt a company has. Like ROA, you can find ROE calcu-

lated for most companies on just about any financial web

site. Again, as a very broad rule of thumb, you might use

15 percent as a reasonable cutoff—companies that can

consistently crank out ROEs of 15 percent or better are

more likely than not to have economic moats.

Finally, there’s return on invested capital (ROIC),

which combines the best of both worlds. It measures the

return on all capital invested in the firm, regardless of

whether it is equity or debt. So, it incorporates debt—unlike

ROA—but removes the distortion that can make highly

leveraged companies look very profitable using ROE. It

also uses a different definition of profits that helps remove

any effects caused by a company’s financing decisions

(debt versus equity), so we can get as close as possible to

a number that represents the true efficiency of the under-

lying business. There are a number of ways to calculate

cc0099..iinndddd 113300 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5566 AAMM

FINDING MOATS [131]

ROIC, and the formula can be complicated, so it is not a

readily available number like ROA and ROE. The upshot

is that you should interpret ROIC the same way as ROE

and ROA—a higher return is preferable to a lower one.

G o Where the Money Is

Moats increase the value of companies because they

enable companies to stay profitable for a longer stretch of

time. And we want to measure profitability using return

on capital, because companies that use capital efficiently

will increase shareholders’ capital at a faster clip. That

sounds reasonable, but moats are more than just a tool

for finding stronger, more valuable companies. As such,

they should always be a core part of your stock-picking

process.

But remember, you don’t need to invest in every part

of the stock market. Feeling the need to follow the herd

and be exposed to this or that industry without regard to

whether the industry’s economics are attractive is a bad

idea. Willie Sutton famously robbed banks because

“that’s where the money is.” As an investor, you should

strive to remember Willie’s reasoning—some industries

are structurally more profitable than others, and that’s where

the moats are. Your long-term investment dollars should

follow.

cc0099..iinndddd 113311 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5577 AAMM

[132] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

The Bottom Line

1. I t’s easier to create a competitive advantage in

some industries than it is in others. Life is not

fair.

2. M oats are absolute, not relative. The fourth-best

company in a structurally attractive industry may

very well have a wider moat than the best com-

pany in a brutally competitive industry.

cc0099..iinndddd 113322 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5577 AAMM

a p te r

h T

C e

n

The Big Boss

(cid:1)

Management Matters Less

Than You Think.

W

to economic moats, management doesn’t

HEN IT COMES

matter as much as you might think.

This may seem like a shocking statement to those

used to seeing high-profile CEOs on the cover of business

magazines and on television. But it’s true. Long-term

competitive advantages are rooted in the structural busi-

ness c haracteristics that I laid out in Chapters 3 to 7 , and

managers have only a limited amount of ability to affect

cc1100..iinndddd 113333 11//2266//0088 33::1111::4444 AAMM

[134] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

them. Sure, we can all remember the standouts in tough

industries—heck, Starbucks managed to dig an economic

moat around a chain of coffee shops—but these companies

are much more the exceptions than the rule. (Remember

the 1990s craze for bagel chains? No? Exactly.)

This point of view stands in direct opposition to the

words of well-known business writer Jim Collins, who echoed

many other business pundits when he wrote, “Greatness, it

turns out, is largely a matter of conscious choice.”

Well, no. “Conscious choice” can’t turn a struggling

auto-parts company into a highly profitable data proces-

sor any more than I can turn myself into Warren Buffett

by drinking Cherry Coke and eating See’s Candies. Nine

times out of 10, the competitive dynamics of an industry

will have a much greater impact on whether a company

has an economic moat than any managerial decision. This

is not because most managers are incompetent, but rather

because some industries are less competitive than others;

the cold, hard truth is that some CEOs just have an easier

job maintaining high returns on capital.

As I discussed in Chapter 9 , some industries are sim-

ply much more conducive to digging a moat than others.

Throw a dart at a random asset manager, bank, or data

processor, and I’ll almost guarantee that you’ll see higher

long-run returns on capital than a randomly selected auto-

parts company, retailer, or technology hardware company.

cc1100..iinndddd 113344 11//2266//0088 33::1111::4455 AAMM

THE BIG BOSS [135]

As much as business schools and management gurus

would like us to believe that following some simple set of

best practices will enable good companies to become

great ones, it’s just not true. Granted, smart management

can enable a good company to become a better one, and

I’d rather own a company with intelligent capital alloca-

tors at the helm than one run by a bunch of bozos. And

dumb managers can certainly cause great companies to

become less so. However, it’s very rare for managerial

decisions to have a bigger impact on a company’s long-

run competitive advantage than that company’s structural

characteristics. *

Think back to the Janus example in Chapter 9 . Man-

agement did everything possible to run the business badly,

yet profitability returned to high levels after a few years in

the dumps. Or look at H&R Block, which earns fat

returns on capital from a great tax-preparation franchise,

*You might think this would be different at a start-up company, because

management could have a greater impact at a smaller and younger firm, but

some recent research from University of Chicago Professor Steven Kaplan