SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Cost Advantages in Business
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of cost advantages in price-sensitive industries, where using the lowest-cost inputs is crucial for staying competitive.
KEYWORDS: cost advantages, price-sensitive industries, globalized economy, commodity industries, substitutes
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

facility to some low-cost region of the world—China, India,

the Philippines, you name it. They act as if management’s

collective IQ doubled the day some middle manager sug-

gested that the company source low-end parts from a fac-

tory with 80 percent lower labor costs.

This is not genius, nor is it a sustainable competitive

advantage, because those same low-cost resources are

very likely available to any company that wants them. If

one auto-parts supplier starts sourcing low-value-added

components from China, how long will it take its competi-

tors to make the same phone calls and set up similar sup-

ply lines? Not very long at all, because the longer those

competitors wait, the more business they are likely to lose

as the high-cost producers in a commodity industry. In a

globalized economy, using the lowest-cost inputs available

is the only way to stay in business for companies operating

in price-sensitive industries.

Needless to say, cost advantages matter most in

industries where price is a large portion of the customer’s

purchase criteria. Although these industries are usually

cc0066..iinndddd 7766 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5544 AAMM

COST ADVANTAGES [77]

characterized as commodity industries, that’s not strictly

true. Intel, for example, has a massive cost advantage

over Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), and micropro-

cessors are not exactly commodities. (Technically, com-

modities are products with no differentiating factor other

than price.)

I think a more useful way to pick out industries in

which cost advantages are likely to be a big factor is to

imagine whether there are easily available substitutes.

Although an Intel chip is certainly different from an

AMD chip, they both do pretty much the same thing

from a user perspective, and whichever one has the best

price-performance ratio is most likely to get the nod from

buyers. Intel may have lower long-run costs, but if AMD

has chips with much better performance—which has hap-

pened for periods of time—users will temporarily switch

to its products.

Moving from a really tiny product to a really big one,

the story has been largely the same for narrow-body

aircraft, believe it or not. Although they are amazingly

complex products, a Boeing 737 and an Airbus A320 are

not all that different from an airline’s perspective—they

have similar ranges, carry a similar number of passengers,

and so forth. So, an airline shopping for new planes

is simply going to see which manufacturer—Boeing or

Airbus—will give it the better deal, and make its decision

cc0066..iinndddd 7777 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5544 AAMM

[78] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

largely on that basis. * (Airlines that use just one type of

plane, such as Southwest and JetBlue, are much more

the exception than the rule.)

The same can be said of U.S. automakers relative to

their Japanese counterparts. No one would confuse a

Ford Taurus with a Honda Accord, but they serve pretty

much the same function, so the vehicle that costs less

(and perhaps breaks down less), is the one that wins in the

marketplace. Costs matter a lot to automakers because

price is a huge component of the buyer’s decision.

Cost advantages can stem from four sources: cheaper

processes, better locations, unique assets, and greater

scale. Scale-based cost advantages themselves can come in

many forms, and they are so important to understand that

I devote all of Chapter 7 to helping you understand when

bigger really is better. We walk through the other three

types of cost advantages in this chapter.

A Better Mousetrap

Process advantages are fascinating because in theory they

shouldn’t exist for long enough to constitute much of a

competitive advantage. After all, if a company figures out

a way to deliver a product or service at a lower cost,

*The new Boeing 787 may change this dynamic, as it incorporates a num-

ber of technological advances that Airbus has not yet been able to match.

Older-model jets will still likely be sold mainly on price, though.

cc0066..iinndddd 7788 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5544 AAMM

COST ADVANTAGES [79]

wouldn’t the logical step for its competitors be to quickly

copy that process so they can match the leader’s cost

structure? This generally does happen eventually, but it

can take a lot longer than one might expect. It’s worth

understanding why that often takes a fair amount of time,

during which the originator of the low-cost process can

make a lot of money.

I won’t beat a very dead horse by going over the

process-based cost advantages enjoyed by Dell and low-

cost carriers like Southwest Airlines. We’ve all heard

both stories a million times. Dell cut out distributors, sold

direct to buyers, and kept inventory very low by building

personal computers (PCs) to order. Southwest flew only

one type of jet, minimized expensive ground time (fast

turns, in airline jargon), and cultivated an employee cul-

ture that rewarded thrift.

What’s interesting is not as much h ow Dell and South-

west sold PCs and airline seats at far lower costs than

the competition, but w hy they were allowed to essentially

run away with their respective markets when their low-

cost processes were a matter of public record. The

answers are different in each case, but they are instructive

nonetheless.

In Southwest’s case, the incumbent airlines (the majors)

didn’t copy its low-cost process for a number of reasons.

First, a rigid union structure meant that pilots weren’t about

cc0066..iinndddd 7799 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5544 AAMM

[80] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

to start helping clean planes at the incumbents. Second,

Southwest’s point-to-point route structure would have

made it hard for the majors to feed profitable business

and international passengers through their expensively

maintained hubs. Third, Southwest was an aggressively

egalitarian airline—no separate classes, no assigned

seats—in an industry that made a lot of money by treat-

ing some passengers like royalty and charging them

for the privilege. In short, the majors would have had to

figuratively blow up their businesses to gain South-

west’s cost advantage, and it’s hard to blow up your own

business.