SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Competitive Strategy
SUMMARY: The text examines how Southwest Airlines and Dell used their cost advantages to disrupt incumbent firms in their respective industries.
KEYWORDS: cost advantage, disruptive innovation, business model, industry disruption, competitive strategy
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

to start helping clean planes at the incumbents. Second,

Southwest’s point-to-point route structure would have

made it hard for the majors to feed profitable business

and international passengers through their expensively

maintained hubs. Third, Southwest was an aggressively

egalitarian airline—no separate classes, no assigned

seats—in an industry that made a lot of money by treat-

ing some passengers like royalty and charging them

for the privilege. In short, the majors would have had to

figuratively blow up their businesses to gain South-

west’s cost advantage, and it’s hard to blow up your own

business.

However, this does not answer why none of the dozens

of other upstart airlines succeeded the way Southwest did.

Partly, this was because Southwest had already locked up

slots at second-tier airports, and partly it was because

Southwest had the foresight to lock up a continuous sup-

ply of new planes, which have much lower operating costs

than used planes. But an equally important reason was that

Southwest gained sufficient scale before the majors real-

ized it was much of a threat—and by that time, it was too

big to kill. Subsequent start-ups were strangled in their

cradles by incumbents that aggressively cut prices on the

newcomers’ routes, and since the newcomers started with

only a few routes, they couldn’t withstand the losses for

long and folded.

cc0066..iinndddd 8800 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5544 AAMM

COST ADVANTAGES [81]

Incumbent PC makers left Dell alone for the same

reason that the majors initially gave Southwest a pass:

The resellers and retailers that took PCs from the manu-

facturers to the end user were too vital a link in the distri-

bution chain. IBM or Compaq, or anyone else that would

have tried to copy Dell, would have had to blow up its

business in order to compete on equal terms. But why

didn’t other n ew companies copy Dell’s business model?

Actually, a couple of other PC companies—Micron

and Gateway—did try to copy Dell’s business model in the

1990s, but both failed miserably. Micron was too busy try-

ing to run a couple of other business lines to effectively

replicate Dell’s superefficient supply chain, and Gateway

opened retail stores in a bid to differentiate itself and get

into the consumer market. It’s hard to believe now, but as

late as 1996, Dell and Gateway were comparable in size and

profitability. Then their paths diverged sharply as Dell cut

inventory to unheard-of levels, and Gateway opened stores

in strip malls.

Let’s look at one more pair of companies with a process-

based cost advantage before we try to draw some c onclusions.

Nucor and Steel Dynamics both operate m ini-mills, which—

without getting technical—use a process for making steel

that is a lot cheaper than the old integrated steel mills run by

the likes of U.S. Steel and Bethlehem Steel. Nucor came

on the scene in 1969 producing low-grade steel products,

cc0066..iinndddd 8811 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5555 AAMM

[82] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

and quickly took market share from the integrated mills with

lower costs and more flexible production. Steel Dynamics

was started in the mid-1990s by Nucor alumni, and is cur-

rently the lowest-cost steel producer in the United States—its

basic process is the same as Nucor’s, but its technology is

25 years newer.

In this example, both Nucor and Steel Dynamics

took advantage of a new technology that incumbent oper-

ators of integrated mills were unable to implement because

they had sunk billions of dollars into their existing opera-

tions, which they couldn’t just junk to start over. And

while other new entrants to the steel market can (and did)

start companies with a similar mini-mill process, the old

high-cost integrated firms ceded so much market share

that Nucor and Steel Dynamics could post respectable

returns on capital alongside other new mini-mills.

Now, let’s fast-forward all three cases—Southwest,

Dell, and the steel mini-mills—to the present. All three

are still decent businesses, but their moats are weaker

today than they were five or 10 years ago. Why?

Southwest still has a cheaper cost structure than any of

the majors—not exactly a hard thing to do, really—but it

faces competitors like JetBlue and AirTran that have been

able to get access to newer planes and cheap slots at s econd-

tier airports. Also, the declining financial health of the majors

made it easier for low-cost airlines to gain scale—the big

cc0066..iinndddd 8822 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5555 AAMM

COST ADVANTAGES [83]

airlines were struggling so hard to stay afloat that they

could not spare the resources to crush upstarts. So, new

low-cost carriers have been able to copy important parts of

Southwest’s secret sauce and match it on cost.

Dell, meanwhile, is still the lowest-cost manufacturer

of PCs, but its advantage has shrunk considerably as com-

petitors like Hewlett-Packard have retooled their busi-

nesses to cut costs, and high-cost operators like IBM have

sold their PC businesses to more savvy owners like Lenovo.

Dell has also been hurt by shifts in the PC market. Dell

excels at selling cheap desktop PCs to corporations and

sophisticated consumers who know exactly what they want,

but much of the recent growth in the PC market has come

from notebook computers and mass-market consumers.

Dell has almost no cost advantage in notebooks, and non-

techie consumers are often wary of buying a computer

without some handholding from a friendly salesperson at a

retail store.

Finally, the mini-mills are facing serious competition

from global firms like Arcelor Mittal, which have access

to very low-cost steel operations in various corners of the

developing world. (Labor costs in Kazakhstan—to name one

Arcelor Mittal mill—are pretty darn low.) As trade barri-

ers have declined and new competition with massive scale

economies has emerged, the mini-mills’ cost advantage has

lessened.

cc0066..iinndddd 8833 11//2266//0088 33::0088::5555 AAMM

[84] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

The upshot of all these cases is that process-based

cost advantages can create a temporary moat if incum-

bents are unlikely to replicate them immediately, and if