SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Oil and Gas Operations
SUMMARY: The text discusses the strong returns on capital in the company's upstream oil and gas exploration and refining operations compared to competitors.
KEYWORDS: upstream operations, oil and gas extraction, refining and chemicals, economies of scale, returns on capital
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

the company’s upstream operations that explore for and

extract oil and natural gas, it’s very apparent in the firm’s

refining and chemical operations, which have returns on

capital that dwarf those of competitors like Valero and

BASF Corporation.

Manufacturing scale needn’t be limited to owning a

larger production facility than the competition. If we

think about scale simply in terms of spreading fixed costs

over a larger sales base, we can see that n onmanufacturing

cc0077..iinndddd 9966 11//2266//0088 33::0099::3399 AAMM

THE SIZE ADVANTAGE [97]

companies can also benefit from economies of scale.

Video-game giant Electronic Arts, for example, has an

easier time creating fantastic video games than smaller

companies because the cost of bringing a video game to

market—currently around $25 million—is essentially fixed,

and Electronic Arts can spread the massive development

costs of its video games over a larger overall sales base.

Across the pond in the United Kingdom, we see a simi-

lar dynamic at BskyB, the largest provider of pay-television

services in that country. Sky can afford to pay far more for

content than rivals because it can spread the cost over a

larger number of subscribers—it has about three times

more subscribers than Virgin Media, its closest competi-

tor. So, Sky can purchase more Premier League football

matches, more first-run movies, and more hit U.S. televi-

sion shows, which attracts more subscribers, which in turn

gives Sky the financial muscle to keep beefing up its con-

tent offerings. Absent a new market entrant outbidding

Sky for a significant chunk of this content and being willing

to suffer large financial losses as it tried to poach subscrib-

ers, it looks like Sky has a pretty wide economic moat.

B ig Fishes in Small Ponds Make Big Money

A final type of scale advantage is domination of a niche

market. Even if a company is not big in an absolute sense,

being relatively larger than the competition in a specific

cc0077..iinndddd 9977 11//2266//0088 33::0099::3399 AAMM

[98] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

market segment can confer huge advantages. In fact,

companies can build near-monopolies in markets that are

only large enough to support one company profitably,

because it makes no economic sense for a new entrant to

spend the capital necessary to enter the market.

The W ashington Post, for example, owns a number of

cable-TV systems in smaller cities like Boise, Idaho, that

are only large enough to support a single cable-service

operator. Competitors don’t bother spending the capital

needed to build a competing system because the profit

pool is only large enough for one company. If a competi-

tor did build a second cable system, neither it nor the

incumbent would have enough customers to be comfort-

ably profitable. Although the attractive economics of

these small-city cable operations have diminished some-

what since satellite television entered the fray, they are

still good examples of the niche-market moat.

Companies with niche-market moats can generate

fabulous returns on capital while making very mundane

products. For example, I doubt that you’ve ever thought

much about industrial pumps, but it turns out that you

can make a lot of money manufacturing high-quality paint

sprayers and pumps for food processing. A wonderful

little firm in Minneapolis called Graco, Inc. makes both,

and it generates 40 percent returns on capital in the

process.

cc0077..iinndddd 9988 11//2266//0088 33::0099::3399 AAMM

THE SIZE ADVANTAGE [99]

How is this possible? First, the total market for high-end

industrial pumps is not all that large, limiting its attrac-

tiveness to large, well-financed competitors. Second,

Graco spends liberally—about 3 to 4 percent of sales—on

research and development, ensuring that it continually

stays at the cutting edge of customers’ requirements.

Third, Graco’s products often deliver results that are

highly visible to the end consumer, but represent a small

fraction of total production costs. Think of the stain and

lacquer on a piece of furniture or the paint job on a new

car—the finishing touch is not expensive relative to the

product’s total cost, but it’s the first thing the consumer

sees. As a result, Graco can extract premium pricing

from customers like furniture manufacturers or automak-

ers. The extra spending doesn’t affect the cost of the

table or the sports car very much, but it definitely boosts

Graco’s profit margins.

Although this type of competitive advantage is often

found in smaller manufacturing firms, it’s not limited to

the industrial world. There is a neat little software firm

called Blackboard, for example, which has about two-

thirds of the market for learning management systems, a

type of university-wide software application that connects

faculty and students. Blackboard’s software allows fac-

ulty to post assignments, helps students to collaborate on

projects, and enables faculty and students to communicate.

cc0077..iinndddd 9999 11//2266//0088 33::0099::4400 AAMM

[100] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

Like industrial pumps, this is not a mammoth market, so

it’s less likely to attract a giant like Microsoft or Adobe. It

is also a highly specialized market, so a competitor would

probably need to expend substantial resources to learn

what customers want before being successful—and because

the market is relatively small, few companies will try.

A final fascinating example of dominating a niche is

private infrastructure firms. Although these are not

terribly common in the United States, they’re becom-

ing more so elsewhere in the world, with airports being

perhaps the best example. Many airports around the

world are private firms, including most of the airports in

Mexico; the Auckland, New Zealand, airport; Schipol

in Amsterdam; and several others. While regulatory

approval—an intangible asset—is certainly one type of

competitive advantage enjoyed by airports, single-competitor

economics also apply. Many markets have only enough

air traffic to support a single airport profitably, so even

if a competitor could get the regulatory approval to

open up a second airport near Auckland or Puerto Val-

larta, doing so wouldn’t necessarily generate attrac-

tive returns on capital. This keeps new entrants out

of the market, giving many airports very wide economic

moats.

cc0077..iinndddd 110000 11//2266//0088 33::0099::4400 AAMM