SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Customer Switching Costs
SUMMARY: The text discusses how companies can create switching costs to make it difficult for customers to switch to competitors, which helps maintain high returns on capital.
KEYWORDS: switching costs, customer experience, competitive advantage, barriers to entry
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

ented firms, such as retailers, restaurants, packaged-goods

companies, and the like. That’s because low switching costs

are the main weakness of these kinds of companies. You can

walk from one clothing store to another, or choose a differ-

ent brand of toothpaste at the grocery store, with almost no

effort whatsoever. That makes it very hard for retailers and

restaurants to create moats around their businesses. Some,

like Wal-Mart and Home Depot, can do it through econo-

mies of scale, and some, like Coach, can create moats by

building strong brands—but in general, consumer-oriented

firms often suffer from low switching costs.

cc0044..iinndddd 5544 11//2266//0088 33::0077::4455 AAMM

SWITCHING COSTS [55]

Switching costs can be tough to identify because you

often need to have a thorough understanding of a custom-

er’s experience—which can be hard if you’re not the

customer. But this type of economic moat can be very

powerful and long-lasting, so it’s worth taking the time to

seek it out. I hope the examples in this chapter have given

you some food for thought.

Our third source of competitive advantage is the sub-

ject of the next chapter. Although it is arguably a type of

switching cost, the network effect is such a unique and

potentially powerful economic moat that it deserves a cat-

egory all its own.

The Bottom Line

1. Companies that make it tough for customers

to use a competitors’ product or service create

switching costs. If customers are less likely to

switch, a company can charge more, which helps

maintain high returns on capital.

2. S witching costs come in many flavors—tight

integration with a customer’s business, monetary

costs, and retraining costs, to name just a few.

3. Y our bank makes a lot of money from switching

costs.

cc0044..iinndddd 5555 11//2266//0088 33::0077::4466 AAMM

cc0044..iinndddd 5566 11//2266//0088 33::0077::4466 AAMM

h a p te r Fi

C v

e

The Network Effect

(cid:1)

So Powerful, It Gets a Chapter

to Itself.

I

’ amazed by those people who seem to

VE ALWAYS BEEN

have met everyone in creation. You probably know some-

one like this yourself—think of that friend who effortlessly

schmoozes everyone he or she meets and winds up with a

Rolodex the size of a bowling ball. These people create

huge networks of contacts that make them desirable

acquaintances, because the more people they know,

the more people they can connect for mutual benefit. Their

cc0055..iinndddd 5577 11//2266//0088 33::0088::2200 AAMM

[58] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

social value increases as the number of people in their net-

work grows.

Businesses that benefit from the network effect are

very similar; that is, the value of their product or service

increases with the number of users. This may sound

incredibly simple, but it’s actually fairly unusual. Think

about your favorite restaurant. That business delivers

value to you by providing good food at a reasonable price.

It likely doesn’t matter much to you whether the place is

crowded or empty, and in fact, you’d probably prefer it

to be not terribly crowded. The value of the service is

almost completely independent of how many other people

use it.

Now think about some well-known large companies,

like the constituents of the Dow Jones Industrial Aver-

age, for example. (I’ve included Exhibit 5 .1 of the stocks

in the Dow as a refresher.) Exxon Mobil Corporation?

A wonderful business, but it makes money by selling

energy products for more money than the cost of finding

them. More customers are good for Exxon Mobil, but

that’s not something you think about when you choose

which gas station to use. Citigroup? Companies don’t use

Citi for corporate banking because their peers do—they

use Citi because it offers attractive rates on loans. Wal-

Mart? It’s the same story. The giant retailer’s low costs

stem in part from its massive size, but people don’t shop

cc0055..iinndddd 5588 11//2266//0088 33::0088::2200 AAMM

THE NETWORK EFFECT [59]

EXHIBIT 5.1 Companies in the Dow Jones Industrial Average

Security Name Industry Ticker

IBM Computer Equipment IBM

Boeing Company Aerospace & Defense BA

3M Company Diversified Manufacturing MMM

ExxonMobil Corporation Oil & Gas XOM

United Technologies Diversified Manufacturing UTX

Caterpillar, Inc. Construction Machinery CAT

Procter & Gamble Household & Personal Products PG

Altria Group, Inc. Tobacco MO

American International Group Insurance AIG

Johnson & Johnson Drugs JNJ

Honeywell International, Inc. Diversified HON

American Express Company Credit Cards AXP

Coca-Cola Company Beverage Manufacturing KO

McDonald’s Corporation Restaurants MCD

Merck & Co., Inc. Drugs MRK

Hewlett-Packard Company Computer Equipment HPQ

Dupont El de Nemours & Co. Chemicals DD

Citigroup, Inc. International Banks C

J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. International Banks JPM

Verizon Communications, Inc. Telecommunication Services VZ

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Discount Stores WMT

AT&T, Inc. Telecommunication Services T

General Electric Company Diversified Manufacturing GE

Alcoa, Inc. Aluminum AA

General Motors Corporation Automakers GM

Walt Disney Company Media Conglomerates DIS

Home Depot, Inc. Home Supply HD

Microsoft Corporation Software MSFT

Intel Corporation Semiconductors INTC

Pfizer, Inc. Drugs PFE

cc0055..iinndddd 5599 11//2266//0088 33::0088::2211 AAMM

[60] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

at W al-Mart because other people shop at Wal-Mart—they

shop there because stuff is cheap.

Sticking with Dow components, what about American

Express? Ah, now we’re onto something. The rewards

and perks that Amex offers users help it to compete with

other credit cards, but if its cards weren’t accepted at

millions of places where people want to spend money,

Amex could offer triple the level of rewards and still have

a tiny number of users. That huge network of merchants

is what gives Amex a competitive advantage over any

other company that may want to start up a new credit

card. The more places you can use your Amex card, the

more valuable that card becomes to you, which is a big

reason behind the company’s recent push to get Amex

accepted at smaller merchants like convenience stores

and gas stations.

Now think about how many large credit card net-

works there are in the United States. The top four—Visa,