SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Intangible Assets
SUMMARY: The text discusses the limitations of patents and brands as sources of sustainable competitive advantage, highlighting the need for firms to have diverse patent portfolios and a track record of innovation.
KEYWORDS: patents, brands, competitive advantage, intellectual property, innovation
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

or purchase it with regularity—solely because of the brand,

you have strong evidence of a moat. But there are plenty

of well-known brands attached to products and companies

that struggle to earn positive economic returns.

P atent Lawyers Drive Nice Cars

Wouldn’t it be great to get legal protection completely

barring competitors from selling your product? That’s

what patents do, and while they can be immensely valu-

able sources of economic moats, they are not always as

durable a competitive advantage as you might think.

First, patents have a finite life, and it’s a virtual cer-

tainty that competition will arrive quickly once a profitable

patent expires. (Ask any large pharmaceutical company.)

cc0033..iinndddd 3344 11//2266//0088 33::0077::0000 AAMM

INTANGIBLE ASSETS [35]

Legal maneuvering can sometimes extend the life of a pat-

ented product, but guessing which team of lawyers will win

a patent battle is a game with poor odds—unless you just

happen to specialize in intellectual property law, of course.

Patents are also not irrevocable—they can be chal-

lenged, and the more profitable the patent is, the more

lawyers will be trying to come up with ways to attack it.

Many generic drug firms, for example, make challenging

Big Pharma’s patents a core part of their business. They

may succeed with only one challenge in 10, but the payoff

for a successful challenge is so high that the challenges

keep coming.

In general, it pays to be wary of any firm that relies

on a small number of patented products for its profits, as

any challenge to those patents will severely harm the com-

pany and will probably be very hard to predict. The only

time patents constitute a truly sustainable competitive

advantage is when the firm has a demonstrated track

record of innovation that you’re confident can continue,

as well as a wide variety of patented products. Think of

3M, which has literally thousands of patents on hundreds

of products, or a large pharmaceutical company such as

Merck or Eli Lilly. These firms have been cranking out

patents for years, and their historical success gives rea-

sonable assurance that currently patented products will

eventually be replaced by new patented products.

cc0033..iinndddd 3355 11//2266//0088 33::0077::0011 AAMM

[36] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

Brands are much like patents, in that they can often

seem like an almost insurmountable competitive advantage.

But they are also a textbook illustration of the way in which

capital always seeks the area of highest return—that’s why

they come under attack as frequently as they do. At

Morningstar, we typically assign moats only to companies

with diverse patent portfolios and innovative track records.

Companies whose futures hinge on a single patented prod-

uct often promise future returns that sound too good to be

true—and oftentimes, that’s exactly what they are.

A Little Help from the Man

The final category of intangible assets that can create a

lasting competitive advantage is regulatory licenses that

make it tough—or impossible—for competitors to enter a

market. Typically, this advantage is most potent when

a company needs regulatory approval to operate in a mar-

ket but is not subject to economic oversight with regard

to how it prices its products. You might think of the con-

trast between utilities and pharmaceutical companies.

Neither can sell its product (power or drugs) to consum-

ers without approval, but the regulators control what the

utility can charge, whereas the U.S. Food and Drug

Administration has no say over drug prices. It shouldn’t

come as much of a surprise that drug companies are cur-

rently a lot more profitable than utilities.

cc0033..iinndddd 3366 11//2266//0088 33::0077::0011 AAMM

INTANGIBLE ASSETS [37]

In short, if you can find a company that can price like

a monopoly without being regulated like one, you’ve prob-

ably found a company with a wide economic moat.

The bond-rating industry is a great example of lever-

aging a regulatory advantage into a near-monopolistic

position. In order to provide ratings for bonds issued in

the United States, a company has to be granted the desig-

nation of “Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings

Organization.” So, right away, any potential competitor

to the incumbents knows that it will need to undergo an

onerous regulatory inspection if it wants to compete in

this industry. It should come as no surprise, then, that

companies that rate bonds are fantastically profitable.

Moody’s Investors Service, for instance, sports operating

margins north of 50 percent (not a typo), and returns on

capital of around 150 percent.

But you don’t need to rate bonds to enjoy a strong

competitive advantage based on a regulatory approval.

Look at the slot machine industry—about as far from the

staid business of bonds as you could imagine.

As you might expect, slots are heavily regulated to

ensure that the machines don’t give casinos any more than

the legally mandated advantage, and to keep unscrupu-

lous people from rigging the machines for their personal

gain. It’s not easy to get approval to manufacture and sell

slot machines, and losing this approval can be financially

cc0033..iinndddd 3377 11//2266//0088 33::0077::0011 AAMM

[38] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

devastating. One of the industry’s smaller players, WMS

Industries, temporarily lost regulatory approval in 2001

after a software glitch, and it took the firm three years to

recover to its preglitch profit level.

Even so, the regulatory barriers are onerous enough

that there are only four meaningful players in the slot

machine industry in the United States, and there hasn’t

been a new competitor in many years. You might have

expected an upstart to use WMS’s troubles as an oppor-

tunity to break into the industry, given that selling slots is

a very profitable business, but that didn’t happen, partly

because the regulatory barriers are so high.

Companies that offer higher-education degrees, like

Strayer Education or Apollo Group, also need regulatory

approvals, called accreditation. There are different levels

of accreditation in the United States, and the most valu-

able one—which makes it easier for students to transfer