SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Network Effect
SUMMARY: The text discusses the powerful competitive advantage of network effects, using eBay as a case study to illustrate how network-based businesses can become dominant in their markets.
KEYWORDS: network effect, competitive advantage, eBay, online auction market
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

good rule of thumb.

By this point, I imagine that you have a good idea of

why network effects are such a powerful competitive

cc0055..iinndddd 6633 11//2266//0088 33::0088::2211 AAMM

[64] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

advantage: A competing firm would need to replicate the

network—or at least come close—before users would see

more value in the new network and switch away from

the existing one. Generally speaking, that’s a really tall

order. It can happen under the right set of circumstances,

as we’ll see when we discuss financial exchanges later in

the chapter, but network-based businesses are usually

pretty durable. To see why, let’s take a look at a business

that is barely a decade old, but which is already the canon-

ical example of the network effect: eBay.

N etworks in Action

Saying that eBay dominates the U.S. online auction mar-

ket is like saying that Ansel Adams took some decent

snapshots of America’s national parks. “Dominates” is

putting it mildly. As of this writing, eBay had at least an

85 percent share of Internet auction traffic in the United

States, and because it is virtually certain that visitors to

eBay spend more per transaction and are more likely

to buy than are visitors to rival sites, eBay’s share of dol-

lars spent in online auctions is likely much higher than

85 percent. The reason why should be obvious after the

foregoing discussion of the network effect: The buyers

are on eBay because the sellers are there, and vice versa.

Even if a competing site were to launch tomorrow

with fees that were a fraction of eBay’s, it would be

cc0055..iinndddd 6644 11//2266//0088 33::0088::2222 AAMM

THE NETWORK EFFECT [65]

unlikely to get much traffic—no buyers, no sellers, and so

forth. And the intrepid first users wouldn’t have the ben-

efit of eBay’s feedback ratings, telling them which other

users they can trust to fulfill a transaction, nor could they

be assured of getting the best price, given the paucity of

other users. (I once asked a candidate applying for an

analyst job at Morningstar what he would do if I played

venture capitalist, gave him huge amounts of financial

backing, and told him to go beat eBay at its own game in

the United States. He thought for a minute and then

replied, “I’d return the money.” Good answer.)

However, eBay has not been at all successful in some

markets, and we can learn a lot about the network effect by

briefly examining why this has been the case. In Japan, eBay

doesn’t even have a presence—Yahoo! Japan has the vast

majority of the country’s online auction market. The reason

here is even simpler than you might think: Yahoo! Japan

offered auction services five months before eBay did, and so

it was able to amass a large group of buyers and sellers

quickly. Further, Yahoo! Japan had the foresight to advertise

heavily and to not charge fees initially, both of which helped

it to build critical mass faster. By the time eBay launched,

Yahoo! Japan had already won—using the same network

effect that let eBay dominate the U.S. market. EBay spent a

few years trying to compete, but eventually realized that it

was beaten, and pulled out of Japan completely.

cc0055..iinndddd 6655 11//2266//0088 33::0088::2222 AAMM

[66] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

If eBay’s experiences in the United States and in

Japan are clear-cut examples of how an early lead can

build on itself when network economics are in play, the

company’s travails in China showed that being first is not

always enough—even moats based on the network effect

can be overcome under some circumstances. At one point a

few years ago, eBay operated the largest online auction

site in China, with about a 90 percent share of traffic.

However, a home-grown competitor emerged, slashed its

listing fees to zero, and introduced some features that

were particularly attractive to the Chinese market. EBay

lost market share very swiftly, and eventually retreated

from the market.

The lesson here is that in a fast-growing market with

consumer preferences that are still being formed around

a new type of service—online auctions, in this case—the

network effect can be subject to successful attack. Of

course, eBay’s slow response to competitive threats didn’t

help matters, nor did the fact that its competitor in this

case was a Chinese company, and thus gained some advan-

tage from being a local hero of sorts.

But enough about eBay—let’s look at some other

examples of the network effect in action.

It’s not much of a leap to go from eBay, which is really

just an online exchange for all kinds of physical goods, to

financial markets like the NASDAQ, the New York Stock

cc0055..iinndddd 6666 11//2266//0088 33::0088::2222 AAMM

THE NETWORK EFFECT [67]

Exchange, and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. F inancial

exchanges benefit from the network effect much as eBay

does, but with some crucial differences that help illuminate

when network economics are at their strongest, and when

they can break down.

The mechanics of the network effect for a financial

exchange are simple: As more buyers and sellers aggre-

gate on an exchange, exchange participants are increas-

ingly able to find the asset they want at the price they

want. In financial parlance, more buyers and sellers lead

to greater liquidity. This liquidity can be broad, meaning

that participants transact in a wide range of assets, and it

can be deep, meaning that participants can trade a large

volume of assets without affecting the quoted price.

Sounds like a great business, right? Let the network

effect work its magic to build a nice pool of liquidity that’s

both deep and broad, and watch the profits roll in. That’s

actually not a bad description of futures exchanges like the

Chicago Mercantile Exchange (the Merc) and the New York

Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX), which are enormously

profitable companies with wide moats due to their net-

work-induced liquidity. Unfortunately, the story is a bit