SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Investment Analysis
SUMMARY: The book explains why analyzing companies' economic moats is a smart long-term investment approach and how to use this approach to build wealth over time.
KEYWORDS: economic moats, investment decisions, stock research, company valuation, wealth building
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

in a clear and entertaining way.

ffllaasstt..iinndddd xxiivv 22//11//0088 1122::5566::3300 PPMM

FOREWORD [xv]

In the pages that follow, Pat explains why we think

making investment decisions based on companies’ eco-

nomic moats is such a smart long-term approach—and,

most i mportant, how you can use this approach to build

wealth over time. You’ll learn how to identify companies

with moats and gain tools for determining how much a

stock is worth, all in a very accessible and engaging way.

Throughout the book, you’ll learn about the economic

power of moats by studying how specific companies with

wide moats have generated above-average profits over

many years—whereas businesses lacking moats have often

failed to create value for shareholders over time.

Haywood Kelly, our chief of securities analysis, and

Catherine Odelbo, president of our Individual Investor

business, have also played a central role in developing

Morningstar’s stock research. Our entire stock analyst

staff also deserves much credit for doing high-quality

moat analysis on a daily basis.

This book is short. But if you read it carefully, I

believe you’ll develop a solid foundation for making smart

investment decisions. I wish you well in your investments

and hope you enjoy our Little Book.

—JOE M ANSUETO

F , C , CEO, M , I .

OUNDER HAIRMAN AND ORNINGSTAR NC

ffllaasstt..iinndddd xxvv 22//11//0088 1122::5566::3311 PPMM

ffllaasstt..iinndddd xxvvii 22//11//0088 1122::5566::3311 PPMM

Acknowledgments

(cid:1)

A

NY BOOK IS A TEAM

effort, and this one is no exception.

I am very lucky to work with a group of extremely tal-

ented analysts, without whom I would know far less about

investing than I do. The contributions of Morningstar’s

Equity Analyst staff improved this book considerably,

especially when it came to making sure I had just the

right example to illustrate a particular point. It’s a blast

to have such sharp colleagues—they make it fun to come

in to work every day.

Special thanks go to Haywood Kelly, Morningstar’s

chief of securities analysis, for valuable editorial feedback—

and for hiring me at Morningstar many years ago. I’m

ffllaasstt..iinndddd xxvviiii 22//11//0088 1122::5566::3311 PPMM

[xviii] ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

also grateful to director of stock analysis Heather Brilliant

for quickly and seamlessly shouldering my managerial

duties while I completed this book. Last but not least, Chris

Cantore turned ideas into graphics, Karen Wallace tight-

ened my prose, and Maureen Dahlen and Sara Mersinger

kept the project on track. Thanks to all four.

Credit is also due to Catherine Odelbo, president of

securities analysis, for her leadership of Morningstar’s equity

research efforts, and of course to Morningstar founder Joe

Mansueto for building a world-class firm that always puts

investors first. Thanks, Joe.

No one, however, deserves more gratitude than my

wife Katherine, whose love and support are my most pre-

cious assets. Along with little Ben and Alice, our twins,

she brings happiness to each day.

ffllaasstt..iinndddd xxvviiiiii 22//11//0088 1122::5566::3311 PPMM

L I

T TLE

B

E

O

H

O

T

K

THAT

BUILDS

WEALTH

ffllaasstt..iinndddd xxiixx 22//11//0088 1122::5566::3322 PPMM

ffllaasstt..iinndddd xxxx 22//11//0088 1122::5566::3322 PPMM

Intr o d ucti

o

n

The Game Plan

(cid:1)

T

to make money in the stock market.

HEREARELOTSOFWAYS

You can play the Wall Street game, keep a sharp eye on

trends, and try to guess which companies will beat earnings

estimates each quarter, but you’ll face quite a lot of compe-

tition. You can buy strong stocks with bullish chart patterns

or superfast growth, but you’ll run the risk that no buyers

will emerge to take the shares off your hands at a higher

price. You can buy dirt-cheap stocks with little regard for

the quality of the underlying business, but you’ll have to

balance the outsize returns in the stocks that bounce back

with the losses in those that fade from existence.

cciinnttrroo..iinndddd 11 11//2266//0088 33::1144::5599 AAMM

[2] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

Or you can simply buy wonderful companies at rea-

sonable prices, and let those companies compound cash

over long periods of time. Surprisingly, there aren’t all

that many money managers who follow this strategy, even

though it’s the one used by some of the world’s most suc-

cessful investors. (Warren Buffett is the best-known.)

The game plan you need to follow to implement this

strategy is simple:

1. Identify businesses that can generate above-average

profits for many years.

2. Wait until the shares of those businesses trade for

less than their intrinsic value, and then buy.

3. Hold those shares until either the business deterio-

rates, the shares become overvalued, or you find a

better investment. This holding period should be

measured in years, not months.

4. Repeat as necessary.

This Little Book is largely about the first step—finding

wonderful businesses with long-term potential. If you can

do this, you’ll already be ahead of most investors. Later in

the book, I’ll give you some tips on valuing stocks, as well

as some guidance on when you want to sell a stock and

move on to the next opportunity.

cciinnttrroo..iinndddd 22 11//2266//0088 33::1144::5599 AAMM

THE GAME PLAN [3]

Why is it so important to find businesses that can crank

out high profits for many years? To answer this question,

step back and think about the purpose of a company, which

is to take investors’ money and generate a return on it. Com-

panies are really just big machines that take in capital, invest

it in products or services, and either create more capital

(good businesses) or spit out less capital than they took in

(bad businesses). A company that can generate high returns

on its capital for many years will compound wealth at a very

prodigious clip.*

Companies that can do this are not common, how-

ever, because high returns on capital attract competitors

like bees to honey. That’s how capitalism works, after

all—money seeks the areas of highest expected return,

which means that competition quickly arrives at the door-

step of a company with fat profits.

So in general, returns on capital are what we call

“mean-reverting.” In other words, companies with high