SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Financial Valuation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the limitations of book value as a valuation metric, particularly for asset-light and service-oriented companies, and highlights the usefulness of book value in the financial services sector.
KEYWORDS: book value, valuation, financial services, competitive advantage, goodwill
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

dollar of earnings or cash flow is exactly the same from

Company A to Company B, the stuff that makes up book

value can vary dramatically. For an asset-intensive firm

like a railroad or a manufacturing firm, book value repre-

sents the bulk of the assets that generate revenue—things

cc1133..iinndddd 117733 11//2288//0088 77::2277::2299 PPMM

[174] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

like locomotives, factories, and inventory. But for a service

or technology firm, for example, the revenue-generating

assets are people, ideas, and processes, none of which are

generally contained in book value.

Moreover, many of the competitive advantages that

create economic moats are typically not accounted for in

book value. Take Harley-Davidson as an example, which

has a P/B ratio of about 5 as of this writing, meaning that

the company’s current market value is about five times the

rough net worth of its factories, land, and inventory of

yet-to-be-built motorcycle parts. That seems pretty rich,

until you consider that the value of the company’s brand

name is not accounted for in book value, and it’s the

brand that allows Harley to earn 25 percent operating

margins and a 40 percent return on equity.

There is one other quirk to book value worth know-

ing. It can often be inflated by an accounting convention

known as goodwill, which is created when one company

buys another. Goodwill is the difference between the

acquired company’s tangible book value and the price paid

for it by the buyer, and as you can imagine, it can be a

huge number for firms without a lot of physical assets.

(When America Online bought Time Warner, the book

value of the combined firm increased by $130 b illion in

goodwill.) The trouble is, goodwill often represents little

more than the desire of the acquiring firm to buy the

cc1133..iinndddd 117744 11//2288//0088 77::2277::2299 PPMM

TOOLS FOR VALUATION [175]

target before someone else does, and so its value is usually

debatable, to say the very least. You’re best off subtracting

goodwill from book value—and often when you see a

price-to-book ratio that seems too good to be true, it’s

because a big goodwill asset is boosting book value.

So, with all these pitfalls, why bother with book value?

Because it is extremely useful for one sector of the market

that contains a disproportionate number of companies

with solid competitive advantages: financial services. The

assets of a financial company are typically very liquid

(think of the loans on a bank’s balance sheet), so they are

very easy to value accurately, which means that the book

value of a financial services company is usually a pretty

decent approximation of its actual tangible value. The

only caveat here is that an abnormally low price-to-book

ratio for a financial firm can indicate that the book value

is somehow in question—perhaps because the company

made some bad loans that will need to be written off.

T he Multiple That Is Everywhere

As you have no doubt guessed by now, every price multiple

has a good side and a bad side—and the mother of all mul-

tiples, the price-earnings (P/E) ratio, is no different. Price-

earnings ratios are useful because earnings are a decent

proxy for value-creating cash flow, and because earnings

results and estimates are readily available from just about

cc1133..iinndddd 117755 11//2288//0088 77::2277::3300 PPMM

[176] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

any source you care to name. They are tricky, though,

because earnings can be a noisy number, and because a

price-earnings ratio doesn’t mean a whole lot in a vacuum—

a P/E of 14 is neither good nor bad, unless we know some-

thing about the company or we have a benchmark against

which to compare the P/E.

Of course, one of the trickiest aspects of the price-

earnings ratio is that, while there may be only one “P,” there

may be more than one “E.” I’ve seen P/Es calculated using

earnings from the most recent fiscal year, the current fiscal

year, the current calendar year, the past four quarters, and

estimates for the next fiscal year. Which one should you use?

That’s a tough question. Always approach a forecasted

earnings number with some caution. These forecasts are

usually the consensus estimate of all Wall Street analysts

following the company, and multiple studies have shown

that consensus estimates are typically too pessimistic just

before a beaten-down company rebounds, and too optimis-

tic just before a highflier slows down. A reasonable-looking

P/E of 15 becomes a less reasonable 20 if earnings turn out

to be 25 percent less than expected.

My advice is to look at how the company has per-

formed in good times and bad, do some thinking about

whether the future will be a lot better or worse than the

past, and come up with your own estimate of how much

the company could earn in an average year. That’s the

cc1133..iinndddd 117766 11//2288//0088 77::2277::3300 PPMM

TOOLS FOR VALUATION [177]

best basis for a P/E on which to base your valuation

because (1) it is your own, so you know what went into

the forecast, and (2) it is based on an average year for the

company, not the best of times or the worst of times.

Once you have found your “E,” you are ready to use

the P/E ratio. The most common way to use a P/E is to

compare it with something else, such as a competitor, an

industry average, the entire market, or the same company

at another point in time. There is some merit to this

approach, as long as you don’t go about it blindly and you

remember the four main drivers of valuation that I dis-

cussed earlier in the chapter: risk, growth, return on capi-

tal, and competitive advantage.

A company that is trading at a lower P/E than others

in the same industry might be a good value—or it might

deserve that lower P/E because it has lower returns on

capital, less robust growth prospects, or a weaker com-