SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Customer Loyalty and Switching Costs
SUMMARY: The text discusses how banks can maintain high profitability due to the high switching costs customers face when changing banks, leading to customer loyalty and reluctance to switch.
KEYWORDS: switching costs, customer loyalty, banking profitability
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

created by a number of small-scale rules, rather

than one big rule that could be changed.

cc0033..iinndddd 4422 11//2266//0088 33::0077::0022 AAMM

h a p te r F o

C u

r

Switching Costs

(cid:1)

Sticky Customers Aren’t Messy,

They’re Golden .

W

you changed banks?

HEN WAS THE LAST TIME

Unless you have moved recently, I’ll bet the answer is

“It’s been awhile,” and you wouldn’t be alone in sticking

with your current bank. If you talk to bankers, you’ll find

that the average turnover rate for deposits is around

15 percent, implying that the average customer keeps his

or her account at a bank for six to seven years.

cc0044..iinndddd 4433 11//2266//0088 33::0077::4433 AAMM

[44] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

When you think about it, that’s a curiously long time.

After all, money is the ultimate commodity, and bank

accounts don’t vary a whole lot in terms of their features.

Why don’t people switch banks frequently in search of

higher interest rates and lower fees? People will drive a

couple of miles out of their way to save a nickel per gallon

on gasoline, after all, and that’s only a buck or two of sav-

ings per fill-up. A bank account that doesn’t nickel-and-

dime you for late fees and such could easily save you a lot

more than that cheap out-of-the-way gas station can.

The answer is pretty simple, of course. Switching

from the nearby gas station to the cheaper one costs you

maybe 5 to 10 minutes extra of time. That’s it. Moreover,

you know with certainty that is the only cost, because gas-

oline is gasoline. But switching bank accounts involves

filling out some forms at the new bank and probably chang-

ing any direct-deposit or bill-paying arrangements you may

have made. So, the known cost is definitely more than a

few minutes. And then there’s the unknown hassle cost

that could occur if your current bank delays or mishandles

the transfer to your new bank—your paycheck could go

into limbo, or your electricity bill might not get paid.

Now, I’m sure that you know why banks are basically

licenses to print money. The a verage bank in the United

States earns a return on equity of around 15 percent, a

level of profitability that is clearly above average for just

cc0044..iinndddd 4444 11//2266//0088 33::0077::4433 AAMM

SWITCHING COSTS [45]

about any other kind of company. There are lots of rea-

sons for this, but one of the biggest is that bank custom-

ers incur a s witching cost if they want to move from one

bank to another. Plainly speaking, moving your bank

account is a royal pain, so people don’t do it all that often.

Banks know this, so they take advantage of their custom-

ers’ reluctance to leave by giving them a bit less interest

and charging them somewhat higher fees than they would

if moving a bank account were as easy as driving from

one filling station to another.

As you can see, switching costs are a valuable compet-

itive advantage because a company can extract more money

out of its customers if those customers are unlikely to

move to a competitor. You find switching costs when the

benefit of changing from Company A’s product to Com-

pany B’s product is smaller than the cost of doing so.

Unless you use a product yourself—like a bank

account—companies that benefit from switching costs can

be hard to find because you need to put yourself in the

customer’s shoes to really understand the balance between

costs and benefits. And, like any competitive advantage,

switching costs can strengthen or weaken with time.

Let’s start with a software company that is probably

familiar to you: Intuit, which makes QuickBooks and

TurboTax. Intuit has generated returns on capital north of

30 percent for eight years running, and its two flagship

cc0044..iinndddd 4455 11//2266//0088 33::0077::4433 AAMM

[46] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

products have each retained a more than 75 percent share

of their respective markets by successfully keeping the

competition—which has included Microsoft more than

once—from eating into its core franchises. Like the bank

example, this is somewhat surprising on the face of things.

Technology changes rapidly, so it doesn’t seem likely that

Intuit has held off the competition just by having better fea-

tures in its software, and Microsoft is no slouch when it

comes to squashing competitors. The answer lies in switch-

ing costs.

Although strategic decisions by Intuit, such as focusing

on ease of use and a large menu of software versions to fit

different consumers, have definitely helped the company, a

big reason that Intuit has held on to the lion’s share of the

market for these two products is that there are meaningful

switching costs for users of QuickBooks and TurboTax.

If you’re running a small business and you’ve already

entered all of your company’s data into QuickBooks,

switching to a competing program will cost you time.

That time is valuable, especially to a small business owner

who is likely wearing multiple hats at once. Even if a com-

peting program offered a data-import feature, odds are

good that the consumer would want to check a lot of the

data herself, because that information is the financial life-

blood of her business. So, the cost in time is likely to be

quite high.

cc0044..iinndddd 4466 11//2266//0088 33::0077::4444 AAMM

SWITCHING COSTS [47]

And in the same way that you run a risk when you

change banks that your accounts will get scrambled, a

small business owner switching from QuickBooks to

a competing program runs the risk of losing track of some

important bit of financial data that got misfiled during the

transition. If you think an unpaid gas bill from a s crambled

checking account is a problem, imagine if a small business

owner didn’t have enough cash to pay employees because

the accounting program never sent out an invoice to a

customer.

What about the benefits of switching? Maybe the