SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Stock Valuation Analysis
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of considering various factors beyond just the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio when evaluating a company's valuation, such as risk, growth, return on capital, and competitive advantage.
KEYWORDS: valuation, price-to-earnings ratio, cash flow, competitive advantage, investment analysis
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

industry average, the entire market, or the same company

at another point in time. There is some merit to this

approach, as long as you don’t go about it blindly and you

remember the four main drivers of valuation that I dis-

cussed earlier in the chapter: risk, growth, return on capi-

tal, and competitive advantage.

A company that is trading at a lower P/E than others

in the same industry might be a good value—or it might

deserve that lower P/E because it has lower returns on

capital, less robust growth prospects, or a weaker com-

petitive advantage. The same limitations apply to any

comparison of a single company’s price-earnings ratio

with the average P/E of the whole stock market.

A company with a P/E of 20 relative to the market P/E

of about 18 (as of mid-2007) looks a little pricey; but

what if that company is, say, Avon Products, with a wide

economic moat, 40 percent returns on capital, and robust

growth prospects in emerging markets? Hmm—maybe

the shares are not so pricey after all.

cc1133..iinndddd 117777 11//2288//0088 77::2277::3300 PPMM

[178] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

Similar cautions apply when comparing a company’s

current P/E with past price-earnings ratios. It is common

for investors to justify an undervalued stock by declaring,

“The shares are trading at their lowest multiple in a decade!”

(I’ve done this more than a few times myself.) All else being

equal, a company trading for 20 times earnings that has his-

torically traded for 30 to 40 times earnings sounds like one

heck of a deal—as long as it has the same growth prospects,

returns on capital, and competitive position. But if any of

those attributes has changed, then all bets are off. Past per-

formance may not guarantee future results, after all.

L ess Popular, but More Useful

Finally, there’s my favorite price multiple, which uses cash

flow from operations in the denominator, rather than earn-

ings. Without getting into the gory accounting details,

cash flow can present a more accurate picture of a compa-

ny’s profit potential because it simply shows how much

cash is flowing in and out of a business, whereas earnings

are subject to a lot of adjustments. For example, publish-

ers usually have higher cash flow than earnings, because

people pay for a year’s worth of magazines before they

actually receive them. By contrast, a business that that sells

stuff on credit—say, a store selling plasma TVs—will have

higher earnings than cash flow, because the store will record

earnings as soon as you walk out the door with the TV,

cc1133..iinndddd 117788 11//2288//0088 77::2277::3300 PPMM

TOOLS FOR VALUATION [179]

even though it won’t get your cash until you send in your

monthly installment payments.

As you might guess, it’s pretty nice when your cus-

tomers pay you b efore you have to do anything for them.

Businesses with this characteristic—often subscription-

based—tend to have higher cash flow than earnings, so

while they may look expensive using a P/E ratio, they can

look much more reasonably priced using a ratio of price to

cash flow. (More often than not, these kinds of businesses

also have high returns on capital.) For example, the com-

pany I used as an example in the previous chapter, Corpo-

rate Executive Board, typically reports about 50 percent

more cash flow than earnings each year.

The ratio of price to cash flow is also useful because

cash flow tends to be a bit steadier than earnings; for exam-

ple, it is not affected by noncash charges that come from a

corporate restructuring or an asset write-down. Also, cash

flow takes capital efficiency into account in some ways,

because companies that need less working capital to grow

will usually have higher cash flow than earnings. One thing

cash flow does not do is take depreciation into account, so

asset-intensive companies will often have higher cash flow

than earnings, which can overstate their profitability because

those depreciated assets will need to be replaced someday.

That’s it for the four most common multiples, the

first type of tool in our valuation kit. A second useful

cc1133..iinndddd 117799 11//2288//0088 77::2277::3311 PPMM

[180] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

group of tools is yield-based valuation metrics, which are

great because we can compare them directly to an objec-

tive benchmark—bond yields.

Say Yes to Yield

If we turn the P/E on its head and divide earnings per

share by a stock’s price, we get an earnings yield. For

example, a stock with a P/E of 20 (20/1), would have an

earnings yield of 5 percent (1/20), and a stock with a P/E

of 15 (15/1) would have an earnings yield of 6.7 percent

(1/15). With 10-year Treasury bonds trading for about

4.5 percent in mid-2007, those both look like reasonably

attractive rates of return relative to bonds. Of course,

you’re not guaranteed to receive the investment returns

on those two stocks, whereas the T-bond is backed by

Uncle Sam, a fairly trustworthy guy. However, you’re

balancing out the additional risk with something positive:

The earnings stream from a company will generally grow

over time, whereas the bond payments are fixed in stone.

Life is full of trade-offs.

We can improve on an earnings yield with a neat little

measure called the cash return, which is simply the annual

cash yield you’d get if you bought a company, paid off all

its debt, and kept the free cash flow. Going back to our

apartment-building analogy from the preceding chapter,

think of cash return as the income stream, as a percentage

cc1133..iinndddd 118800 11//2288//0088 77::2277::3311 PPMM

TOOLS FOR VALUATION [181]

of the purchase price, that you might get from owning an

apartment building outright after paying for maintenance

and upkeep. Cash return tells us how much free cash

flow a company is generating relative to the cost of buy-

ing the whole company, including its debt burden.

This measure improves on the earnings yield because it