SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Energy Sector Moats
SUMMARY: The text discusses the moats in the energy sector, particularly in the oil and pipeline industries, and how they can lead to attractive returns for investors.
KEYWORDS: oil industry, pipeline industry, moats, regulatory barriers, monopoly power
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

leum Exporting Countries (OPEC) that does a pretty good

job at keeping the price of oil relatively high. Those high

prices create decent returns on capital for many (not all)

oil producers, in addition to the fact that only a small num-

ber of well-capitalized giants have the resources to develop

the increasingly hard-to-access oil fields that are being

discovered.

We also find lots of moats in a small niche of the

energy sector that is, surprisingly, not all that well-known:

pipelines. Many of the companies that operate the vast

network of pipelines used to transport natural gas, gasoline,

crude oil, and a variety of other energy-related products

trade publicly, and they are pretty good businesses. Gen-

erally, building a pipeline requires regulatory approval,

cc0099..iinndddd 112266 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5566 AAMM

FINDING MOATS [127]

which is not always easy to secure, and many pipelines

benefit from the same niche economics discussed in

Chapter 7 : When there is not enough demand between two

points to profitably support multiple pipelines, a single

pipeline enjoys a local monopoly and can charge the maxi-

mum allowed rates. Moreover, those allowed rates can be

fairly attractive, because pipelines have a somewhat looser

regulatory regimen than utilities have. Pipelines are gen-

erally wrapped into a structure known as a master limited

partnership, which can cause some tax complications for

investors, and which is generally unsuitable for tax-deferred

accounts like individual retirement accounts (IRAs) or 401(k)s.

Still, the attractive returns and moaty businesses in this

corner of the energy market make it worth an extra hour

or two come tax time.

Finally, we come to utilities, which are a bit odd in terms

of economic moats. Their natural monopolies over some

geographic areas would seem to make them wide-moat

businesses, but regulatory agencies have—unfortunately for

investors, fortunately for consumers—figured this out, which

is why their returns on capital are usually capped at a rela-

tively low level. Reasonably friendly regulators are the best

asset a utility can have, and this varies considerably by

region—the Northeast and West Coast have some of the

least friendly regulators, while the Southeast is a more

benign environment. Generally speaking, the utility sector is

cc0099..iinndddd 112277 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5566 AAMM

[128] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

not an area of the market where moats are abundant, but

low-cost generating assets and friendly regulators can create

decent returns, if you’re careful about the price you pay.

Measuring a Companys Profitability

’

I hope you understand by now that moats increase the

value of companies by helping them stay profitable for a

longer period of time. So, what is the best way to measure

a company’s profitability? Easy—we look at how much

profit the company is generating relative to the amount of

money invested in the business. From a numbers perspec-

tive, this is the real key to separating great companies

from average ones, because the job of any company is to

take money and invest it in projects, products, or services

to generate more money. The more capital that comes

out relative to the amount that goes in, the better the

business.

Understanding how much economic profit a company

generates p er dollar of capital employed tells us how efficiently

a company is using its capital. More efficient capital users

are going to be better businesses—and better investments—

because they can increase shareholder wealth at a faster

compound rate.

Think about it this way. A company’s management is

similar to the management of a mutual fund. A mutual fund

cc0099..iinndddd 112288 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5566 AAMM

FINDING MOATS [129]

manager takes investors’ money and invests it in stocks or

bonds to generate a return, and a manager who is able to

generate, say, 12 percent returns is going to increase share-

holders’ wealth faster than a manager who can compound

at only 8 percent. Companies aren’t much different. They

take shareholders’ money and invest it in their own busi-

nesses to create wealth. By measuring the return that a

company has achieved, we know how good it is at efficiently

transforming capital into profits.

So, how do we measure return on capital? The three

most common ways are return on assets (ROA), return on

equity (ROE), and return on invested capital (ROIC).

Each gives us the same information, but in a slightly dif-

ferent way.

Return on assets (ROA) measures how much income a

company generates per dollar of assets, and if all compa-

nies were just big piles of assets, we could use it and be per-

fectly happy. It’s a fine starting point, and you can find it

calculated for just about any company on web sites such

as Morningstar.com and elsewhere. Very broadly speaking,

a nonfinancial company that can consistently generate an

ROA of 7 percent or so likely has some kind of competitive

advantage over its peers.

But many firms are at least partially financed with

debt, which gives their returns on capital a leverage

cc0099..iinndddd 112299 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5566 AAMM

[130] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

component that we need to take into account. Enter return

on equity (ROE), which is also a great overall measure of

returns on capital. ROE measures the efficiency with

which a company uses shareholders’ equity—think of it as

measuring profits per dollar of shareholders’ capital. One

flaw of ROE is that companies can take on a lot of debt

and boost their ROE without becoming more profitable,

so it’s a good idea to look at ROE alongside how much

debt a company has. Like ROA, you can find ROE calcu-

lated for most companies on just about any financial web

site. Again, as a very broad rule of thumb, you might use

15 percent as a reasonable cutoff—companies that can

consistently crank out ROEs of 15 percent or better are

more likely than not to have economic moats.

Finally, there’s return on invested capital (ROIC),

which combines the best of both worlds. It measures the

return on all capital invested in the firm, regardless of