SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Competitive Advantages in Business Sectors
SUMMARY: The text analyzes the varying degrees of competitive advantages (moats) in different business sectors, including technology, telecommunications, and media.
KEYWORDS: moats, competitive advantages, business sectors, software vs. hardware, telecommunications, media
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

Utilities 80 1 81

cc0099..iinndddd 111188 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5544 AAMM

FINDING MOATS [119]

In technology, you can see that software companies

tend to have an easier time creating moats than hardware

companies. This is not simply an accounting artifact—

hardware firms are generally more capital-intensive than

software firms—but has a strong basis on the way these

two broad categories of products are used. A piece of

software often needs to be integrated with other pieces

of software to work properly, and this integration leads to

customer lock-in and higher switching costs. Hardware

is more frequently based on common industry standards,

and can be swapped out for new hardware with less effort.

There are important exceptions, of course, especially when

a hardware company—like, say, Cisco Systems—is able to

embed software in its products and create switching costs.

But you’ll generally find more moats among software

companies than among hardware companies.

Given the turmoil in telecommunications over the

past several years, it’s a bit surprising to see that almost

two-thirds of the telecom companies that we cover have

moats, but there’s a simple explanation: More than half

of the telecom companies Morningstar covers are foreign,

and they are often located in countries where the regula-

tory environment is more benign than here in the United

States. In general, moats in the telecom sector are highly

dependent on having either a favorable regulatory struc-

ture or a niche position that is not attractive to potential

cc0099..iinndddd 111199 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5544 AAMM

[120] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

competitors, such as some of the carriers located in rural

parts of the United States. But if you are looking for a

telecom company with a competitive advantage, your best

bet is to look abroad.

Although some media companies have been under

siege recently, the industry is still a reasonably good hunt-

ing ground for companies with competitive advantages.

Companies such as Disney and Time Warner, for exam-

ple, control vast amounts of unique content that may cost

a lot to produce initially, but which costs almost nothing

to redistribute ad infinitum. In general, we’ve found that

diversity and control of distribution channels help media

companies create competitive advantage and a buffer

against the inevitable loss of popularity of any individual

media property. More so than many other sectors, how-

ever, many media companies are threatened with techno-

logical disruption as the Internet blows up well-established

business models. Companies with extremely strong brands

(Disney) or broad distribution networks (Comcast) seem

like they will have the best chance of surviving with moats

intact.

Like telecom companies, health care companies also

face regulatory challenges—a change in Medicare’s reim-

bursement rules can alter smaller companies’ economics

overnight—but the product diversity of larger firms miti-

gates this risk. Don’t let the apparently small percentage

cc0099..iinndddd 112200 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5544 AAMM

FINDING MOATS [121]

of companies with moats in the table above fool you,

because the large number of tiny biotech and single-

product companies in the health care sector skews the

data. Generally, you’ll find more moats among companies

that sell health care products, like drugs or medical

devices, than you will among health maintenance organi-

zations (HMOs) and hospitals that provide health care

services. It’s often harder to differentiate a service offer-

ing relative to a product that requires years or research

and development plus Food and Drug Administration

(FDA) approval to reach the market. And while the giant

drug and device companies usually have solid competitive

advantages, don’t overlook smaller health care companies

that often build very solid moats by dominating a niche—

like Respironics and ResMed in sleep apnea, or Gen-

Probe in blood testing.

Companies that cater directly to the consumer, like

restaurants and retailers, often have a very hard time

building competitive advantages—the percentage of con-

sumer services companies with wide moats is one of the

smallest of all the market sectors. The culprit here is

low switching costs, because walking down the street from

one shop or cafe to another is incredibly easy, and popular

concepts can almost always be copied with ease. Popular

fashion retailers or restaurant chains often present the

illusion of a moat due to their fast growth and the buzz

cc0099..iinndddd 112211 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5544 AAMM

[122] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

that surrounds a new type of store that is opening up

several new locations every month, but be wary, because

the odds are good that a knockoff concept is not far off.

The moats that do exist in consumer services—companies

like Bed Bath & Beyond, Best Buy, Target, or Starbucks—

are generally the result of getting a lot of little things

consistently right for years, which results in the kind of

dependable consumer experience that drives loyalty and

repeat traffic. It can be done, but it’s not easy.

Companies that provide services to businesses are in

many ways the polar opposite of the restaurants and retail-

ers. This sector has one of the highest percentages of

wide-moat companies in Morningstar’s coverage universe,

and that’s largely because these firms are often able to

integrate themselves so tightly into their clients’ business

processes that they create very high switching costs, giv-

ing them pricing power and excellent returns on capital.

Data processors like DST Systems and Fiserv fall into

this category, as do companies with impossible-to-replicate

databases, like IMS Health (prescription drugs) or Dun &

Bradstreet and Equifax (credit histories). This part of the

market also has an outsize number of niche-dominating

firms like Stericycle (medical waste), Moody’s Investors

Service (bond ratings), FactSet (financial data aggregation),

and Blackbaud (fund-raising software for nonprofits).

Although business services firms may be further from

cc0099..iinndddd 112222 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5555 AAMM

FINDING MOATS [123]

your everyday radar screen, they’re usually worth the effort

it takes to get to know them, given how rich in moats the

sector tends to be.

The financial-services sector is another great place to

look for companies with moats. Barriers to entry are quite