SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Economic Moats
SUMMARY: The text discusses how companies with economic moats, or sustainable competitive advantages, can be resilient and bounce back from setbacks, making them attractive investments.
KEYWORDS: economic moats, competitive advantages, business resilience, investing strategy, company valuation
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

complete toast. And in fact, that’s the way the business

press largely portrayed Mickey D’s in 2002 and 2003. Yet

McDonald’s iconic brand and massive scale enabled it to

retool and bounce back in a way that a no-moat restaurant

chain could not have done.

This resiliency of companies with moats is a huge psy-

chological backstop for an investor who is looking to buy

wonderful companies at reasonable prices, because high-

quality firms become good values only when something

goes awry. But if you analyze a company’s moat prior to it

becoming cheap—that is, before the headlines change

from glowing to groaning—you’ll have more insight into

whether the firm’s troubles are temporary or terminal.

cc0011..iinndddd 1122 11//2266//0088 33::0055::5588 AAMM

ECONOMIC MOATS [13]

Finally, moats can help you define what is called a

“circle of competence.” Most investors do better if they

limit their investing to an area they know well—financial-

services firms, for example, or tech stocks—rather than

trying to cast too broad a net. Instead of becoming an

expert in a set of industries, why not become an expert in

firms with competitive advantages, regardless of what

business they are in? You’ll limit a vast and unworkable

investment universe to a smaller one composed of high-

quality firms that you can understand well.

You’re in luck, because that’s exactly what I want to

do for you with this book: make you an expert at recogniz-

ing economic moats. If you can see moats where others

don’t, you’ll pay bargain prices for the great companies of

tomorrow. Of equal importance, if you can recognize no-

moat businesses that are being priced in the market as if

they have durable competitive advantages, you’ll avoid

stocks with the potential to damage your portfolio.

The Bottom Line

1. Buying a share of stock means that you own a

tiny—okay, really tiny—piece of the business.

2. The value of a business is equal to all the cash it

will generate in the future.

(continued)

cc0011..iinndddd 1133 11//2266//0088 33::0055::5588 AAMM

[14] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

3. A business that can profitably generate cash for

a long time is worth more today than a business

that may be profitable only for a short time.

4. Return on capital is the best way to judge a

company’s profitability. It measures how good

a company is at taking investors’ money and gen-

erating a return on it.

5. Economic moats can protect companies from

competition, helping them earn more money for

a long time, and therefore making them more

valuable to an investor.

cc0011..iinndddd 1144 11//2266//0088 33::0055::5599 AAMM

h a p te r T

C w

o

Mistaken Moats

(cid:1)

Don’t Be Fooled by These Illusory

Competitive Advantages.

T

’ in investing that runs, “Bet on

HERES A COMMON CANARD

the jockey, not on the horse”—the notion is that the quality

of a management team matters more than the quality of a

business. I suppose that in horse racing it makes sense. After

all, racing horses are bred and trained to run fast, and so the

playing field among horses seems relatively level. I may be on

thin ice here, having never actually been to a horse race, but

I think it’s fair to say that mules and Shetland ponies don’t

race against thoroughbreds.

cc0022..iinndddd 1155 11//2266//0088 33::0066::2299 AAMM

[16] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

The business world is different. In the stock market,

mules and Shetland ponies do race against thoroughbreds,

and the best jockey in the world can’t do much if his mount is

only weeks from being put out to pasture. By contrast, even

an inexperienced jockey would likely do better than average

riding a horse that had won the Kentucky Derby. As an inves-

tor, your job is to focus on the horses, not the jockeys.

Why? Because the single most important thing to

remember about moats is that they are structural character-

istics of a business that are likely to persist for a number of

years, and that would be very hard for a competitor to

replicate.

Moats depend less on managerial brilliance—how a

company plays the hand it is dealt—than they do on what

cards the company holds in the first place. To strain the

gambling analogy further, the best poker player in the world

with a pair of deuces stands little chance against a rank

amateur with a straight flush.

Although there are times when smart strategies can

create a competitive advantage in a tough industry (think

Dell or Southwest Airlines), the cold, hard fact is that some

businesses are structurally just better positioned than oth-

ers. Even a poorly managed pharmaceutical firm or bank

will crank out long-term returns on capital that leave the

very best refiner or auto-parts company in the dust. A pig

with lipstick is still a pig.

cc0022..iinndddd 1166 11//2266//0088 33::0066::3300 AAMM

MISTAKEN MOATS [17]

Because Wall Street is typically so focused on short-term

results, it’s easy to confuse fleeting good news with the char-

acteristics of long-term competitive advantage.

In my experience, the most common “mistaken moats”

are great products, strong market share, great execution, and

great management. These four traps can lure you into think-

ing that a company has a moat when the odds are good

that it actually doesn’t.

M oat . . . or Trap?

Great products rarely make a moat, though they can cer-

tainly juice short-term results. For example, Chrysler vir-

tually printed money for a few years when it rolled out the

first minivan in the 1980s. Of course, in an industry where

fat profit margins are tough to come by, this success did

not go unnoticed at Chrysler’s competitors, all of whom

rushed to roll out minivans of their own. No structural

characteristic of the automobile market prevented other

firms from entering Chrysler’s profit pool, so they crashed

the minivan party as quickly as possible.

Contrast this experience with that of a small auto-parts

supplier named Gentex, which introduced an automatically