SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Real Estate Valuation
SUMMARY: This passage discusses the key factors that influence the valuation of a rental property, including growth potential, risk, return on capital, and competitive advantage, which also underpin the valuation of any company.
KEYWORDS: real estate valuation, rental property, growth potential, risk, return on capital
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

Sticking with the landlord example, let’s think about

what would make a building full of rental apartments worth

more or less to a prospective purchaser. Growth would

certainly push the value up—if a building had an adjacent

patch of land on which a landlord could build more apart-

ments, it would be worth more than a building without that

land, as the stream of potential future rental income would

be larger. The same goes for the riskiness of the rental

income—a building full of seasoned wage-earners would be

worth more than the same building full of college students,

because the landlord would be more confident of actually

collecting the rent each month without a big hassle.

You’d also imagine that a higher return on capital

would make a building worth more—if you thought you

could raise rents in a certain building and essentially get

more income with no investment, that property would be

worth more than a building with stagnant rents. Finally,

let’s not forget competitive advantage—a building that

was the last to go up before a zoning ordinance prevented

adjacent new apartment buildings would be worth more

cc1122..iinndddd 116644 11//2288//0088 77::2277::0044 PPMM

WHAT’S A MOAT WORTH? [165]

than a building that p otentially faced lots of new apart-

ments competing with it.

Guess what? You’ve just learned the most important

concepts that underpin the valuation of any company: the

likelihood that those estimated future cash flows will actu-

ally materialize (risk), how large those cash flows will

likely be (growth), how much investment will be needed to

keep the business ticking along (return on capital), and

how long the business can generate excess profits (eco-

nomic moat). Keep these four factors in mind when using

price multiples or any other valuation tool, and you’re

certain to make better investing decisions.

Invest, Don’t Speculate

There are three types of tools for valuing companies: price

multiples, yields, and intrinsic values. All three are valu-

able parts of the investing toolkit, and the wise investor

will apply more than one to a prospective purchase. I’ll go

over price multiples and yields in the next chapter. (Intrin-

sic values are a bit more complicated, and generally require

a somewhat technical method called discounted cash flow,

which is a bit beyond the scope of this book. * )

*If you’re interested in learning about how to calculate an intrinsic value,

I’d recommend picking up another book I’ve written about investing, called

The Five Rules for Successful Stock Investing ( John Wiley & Sons, 2004),

which goes into more detail on accounting and valuation.

cc1122..iinndddd 116655 11//2288//0088 77::2277::0044 PPMM

[166] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

However, understanding price multiples and yields

will be easier if we first detour briefly into what drives

stock returns. Over long stretches of time, there are just

two things that push a stock up or down: The i nvestment

return, driven by earnings growth and dividends, and the

speculative return, driven by changes in the price-earnings

(P/E) ratio.

Think of the investment return as reflecting a company’s

financial performance, and the speculative return as reflect-

ing the exuberance or pessimism of other investors. A stock

might go from $10 to $15 per share because earnings have

increased from $1 per share to $1.50 per share, or because

even though earnings stayed flat at $1 per share, the P/E ratio

increased from 10 to 15. In the first case, the stock was

driven completely by investment return; in the latter case, the

shares climbed solely due to speculative return.

When you focus your investment search on compa-

nies with economic moats, you’re maximizing your poten-

tial investment return, because you’re looking for companies

that are likely to create economic value and increase their

earnings over long periods of time.

By paying close attention to valuation, you’re minimizing

the risk of a negative speculative return—that is, the odds that

a change in the mood of other investors will hurt your invest-

ment performance. After all, no one knows what a stock’s

speculative returns will be over the next five or 10 years, but

cc1122..iinndddd 116666 11//2288//0088 77::2277::0055 PPMM

WHAT’S A MOAT WORTH? [167]

we can make some pretty reasonable educated guesses about

the investment return. Careful valuation will help insulate you

against an adverse change in market emotion.

Let’s look at a real-world example. As of mid-2007,

Microsoft had increased earnings per share at an average

rate of roughly 16 percent per year over the past decade.

So, 16 percent was the company’s 10-year average invest-

ment return. But Microsoft’s shares have appreciated at

an average annual rate of only about 7 percent over the

same time period, which means its speculative return must

have been negative, to drag down that juicy 16 percent

investment return. In fact, that’s precisely what happened—

10 years ago, Microsoft shares were valued at a P/E ratio

of 50, and today the P/E ratio is just 20.

Contrast Microsoft with Adobe, which produces Pho-

toshop, Acrobat, and a host of other image-processing

software products. Over the past decade, Adobe’s earn-

ings per share have increased at about 13 percent per year

on average—that’s the investment return. But the shares

have appreciated at almost twice that rate, about 24 percent

per year, because over the past 10 years the stock’s P/E

ratio changed from about 17 to about 45 today, which

added a huge amount of speculative return.

As you can see, a change in the market’s mood—the

speculative return—caused a drastically different outcome for

an investor who bought shares of two companies in the same

cc1122..iinndddd 116677 11//2288//0088 77::2277::0055 PPMM

[168] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

industry that posted roughly the same growth rate over the

past decade. The Microsoft investor has received returns

roughly in line with the market, while the Adobe investor has

made several times his or her initial investment.

Now, the Adobe example is an extreme; buying a

stock with the expectation that the market will deliver