SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Competitive Analysis
SUMMARY: The text analyzes the characteristics of companies with sustainable competitive advantages, which investors can use to identify promising investment opportunities.
KEYWORDS: competitive advantage, economic moats, sustainable returns, investment strategy
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

have thoroughly analyzed the competitive position of

thousands of companies across the globe over the past

several years, so these four characteristics have been

boiled down from a very large data set.

cc0022..iinndddd 2244 11//2266//0088 33::0066::3322 AAMM

MISTAKEN MOATS [25]

This framework for identifying economic moats dif-

fers from a lot of what has been written in the past about

competitive advantage. We think some businesses are

simply better than others—b etter being defined as “more

likely to generate sustainable high returns on capital”—

and there are specific things you can look for to help you

sort out the better companies from the pack. This is not

a message you will hear often when reading books about

business or strategy, and the reason for that is simple.

Most people who write about competitive advantage

are selling their ideas to corporate managers, and so they

focus on generic strategies that any company can pursue

to improve or maintain its competitive position. They

want their ideas to be applicable to as wide an audience as

possible, so the message is typically along the lines of

“Any company can become a top performer if it follows

these principles/strategies/goals.”

This is useful stuff if you are a go-getting corporate

executive trying to improve your company’s performance.

It’s also useful if you’re trying to sell a book on strategy

to these same executives, since a widely applicable set of

principles and a positive message will convince more peo-

ple to buy into your ideas. After all, a blunt listing of the

specific characteristics of great businesses is not likely to

be popular among managers whose companies don’t have

those characteristics.

cc0022..iinndddd 2255 11//2266//0088 33::0066::3322 AAMM

[26] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

But as investors, we’re not stuck trying to make lem-

ons into lemonade, as are the executives trying to shepherd

companies through brutally competitive industries. Instead,

we can survey the entire investment landscape, look for the

companies that demonstrate signs of economic moats, and

focus our attention on those promising candidates. If some

industries are more structurally attractive than others, we

can spend more time investigating them, because our odds

of finding companies with economic moats are higher. We

can even write off entire swaths of the market if we don’t

think they have attractive competitive characteristics.

What we need to know, as investors looking for compa-

nies with economic moats, is how to recognize a competitive

advantage when we see it—regardless of a company’s size,

age, or industry. Generic principles like “focus on the core”

don’t cut the mustard, since they can apply to almost any

firm. We need specific characteristics that help separate

companies with competitive advantages from companies

without competitive advantages.

In G ood to Great (HarperBusiness, 2001), author Jim

Collins wrote, “Greatness is not a matter of circumstance.”

I would respectfully disagree. In my opinion, greatness is

largely a matter of circumstance, and it starts with one of

these four competitive advantages. If you can identify

them, you’ll be head and shoulders ahead of most i nvestors

in your search for the very best businesses.

cc0022..iinndddd 2266 11//2266//0088 33::0066::3322 AAMM

MISTAKEN MOATS [27]

The Bottom Line

1. Moats are structural characteristics inherent to

a business, and the cold hard truth is that some

businesses are simply better than others.

2. Great products, great size, great execution, and

great management do not create long-term com-

petitive advantages. They’re nice to have, but

they’re not enough.

3. The four sources of structural competitive advan-

tage are intangible assets, customer switching

costs, the network effect, and cost advantages.

If you can find a company with solid returns on

capital and one of these characteristics, you’ve

likely found a company with a moat.

cc0022..iinndddd 2277 11//2266//0088 33::0066::3322 AAMM

cc0022..iinndddd 2288 11//2266//0088 33::0066::3333 AAMM

a p t er T h

h r

C e

e

Intangible Assets

(cid:1)

You Can’t Pull Them Off A Shelf,

But They Sure Are Valuable .

“I

” sounds like a grab-bag category for

NTANGIBLE ASSETS

competitive advantage, and in some ways it is. On the sur-

face, brands, patents, and regulatory licenses have little

in common. But as economic moats, they all function in

essentially the same way—by establishing a unique posi-

tion in the marketplace. Any company with one of these

advantages has a mini-monopoly, allowing it to extract a

lot of value from its customers.

cc0033..iinndddd 2299 11//2266//0088 33::0066::5599 AAMM

[30] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

The flip side is that moats based on intangible assets

may not be as easy to spot as you think. Brands can lose

their luster, patents can be challenged, and licenses can

be revoked by the same government that granted them.

Let’s tackle brands first.

P opular Brands Are Profitable Brands, Right?

One of the most common mistakes investors make con-

cerning brands is assuming that a well-known brand endows

its owner with a competitive advantage. In fact, nothing

could be further from the truth. A brand creates an eco-

nomic moat only if it increases the consumer’s willingness

to pay or increases customer captivity. After all, brands

cost money to build and sustain, and if that investment

doesn’t generate a return via some pricing power or repeat

business, then it’s not creating a competitive advantage.

The next time you are looking at a company with a

well-known consumer brand—or one that argues that its

brand is valuable within a certain market niche—ask

whether the company is able to charge a premium relative

to similar competing products. If not, the brand may not

be worth very much.

Look at Sony, for example, which certainly has a well-

known brand. Now ask yourself whether you would pay

more for a DVD player solely because it has the Sony

name on it, if you were comparing it to a DVD player

cc0033..iinndddd 3300 11//2266//0088 33::0077::0000 AAMM

INTANGIBLE ASSETS [31]

with similar features from Philips Electronics or Samsung

or Panasonic. Odds are good that you wouldn’t—at least