SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Switching Costs in Business
SUMMARY: This text discusses the competitive advantage and pricing power that companies can gain from switching costs faced by their customers.
KEYWORDS: switching costs, competitive advantage, pricing power, customer loyalty, risk aversion
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

customers like General Electric when they design new

products. Look at the cost/benefit balance. The only ben-

efit of GE switching to a new supplier would likely be

monetary, as long as Precision keeps up its quality stan-

dards. So, by dumping Precision for someone else, GE

might be able to build turbines and jet engines for less

cc0044..iinndddd 5500 11//2266//0088 33::0077::4455 AAMM

SWITCHING COSTS [51]

money, which might help it make a larger profit margin

when it sells those products.

What about the cost? Well, the explicit cost is mean-

ingful—the new company would need to spend time get-

ting to know GE’s products as intimately as Precision

already does—but the real cost in this case is risk. Given

the incredibly low tolerance for failure on a turbine or jet

engine, it doesn’t make sense for GE to try to shave the

production cost if it increases the risk of product failure.

It would take only one high-profile crack-up caused by a

metal component failure to seriously damage GE’s repu-

tation, after all, which would definitely hurt future sales.

The result is that Precision can earn some pretty fat

margins on the components it sells, partly because its cus-

tomers would need to find a supplier of similar reliability

if they wanted to save money by switching. (The company

also does a good job controlling costs.) That switching

cost, created by years of delivering high-quality parts to

its customers, is what gives Precision a competitive

advantage.

S witching Costs Are Everywhere

The beautiful thing about switching costs is that they

show up in all kinds of industries. Circling back to soft-

ware, Adobe’s moat is also based on switching costs. Its

Photoshop and Illustrator programs are taught to b udding

cc0044..iinndddd 5511 11//2266//0088 33::0077::4455 AAMM

[52] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

designers in school, and they’re complex enough that

switching to another program would mean significant

retraining. Another software company, Autodesk, which

makes the AutoCAD digital-design software that is used

to spec out everything from bridges to buildings, is in an

analogous position. Most engineers learn AutoCAD in

college, and their future employers have no desire to incur

the loss of productivity that would result from retraining

them on new software.

Back in financial services, asset managers have switch-

ing costs that are somewhat analogous to those of banks.

Money that flows into a mutual fund or wealth-manage-

ment account tends to stay there—we call these sticky

assets—and that money generates fees for many years.

For example, during the market-timing scandals in the

mutual fund world, even when some asset management

firms were caught doing blatantly illegal things, most

retained enough assets to remain solidly profitable, despite

legal costs and investor redemptions.

Although the explicit cost of moving a mutual fund

account from Firm A to Firm B is arguably even lower

than moving a bank account, most people perceive the

benefits as uncertain. They have to convince themselves

that the new and less familiar manager will be better than

the manager they have been using, which essentially means

admitting they made a mistake choosing their current

cc0044..iinndddd 5522 11//2266//0088 33::0077::4455 AAMM

SWITCHING COSTS [53]

manager in the first place. This is psychologically tough

for most people, so assets tend to stay where they are. The

switching costs may not be explicitly large, but the benefits

of switching are so uncertain that most people take the

path of least resistance and just stay where they are.

Over in the energy sector, the mundane business of

propane distribution has fairly high switching costs. In

many rural parts of the United States, people aren’t

hooked up to a distribution grid for natural gas, so they

get their heat and cooking gas from tanks of propane

sited near their houses. Generally speaking, these tanks

aren’t owned by the customer but rather leased from the

company that supplies the propane. So, if a competing

propane distributor comes along with a better price and a

customer calls up the existing supplier to cancel the ser-

vice, the current supplier has to swap tanks with the new

supplier, which is a big hassle.

Needless to say, people don’t switch propane distribu-

tors very often, especially because the existing distributor

usually charges a fee if you switch to a competitor. This

gives the distributors a decent amount of pricing power,

and their high returns on capital are financial proof.

In health care, firms that manufacture laboratory

equipment often benefit from switching costs. Waters

Corporation, for example, makes sophisticated and

expensive machines that perform a process called liquid

cc0044..iinndddd 5533 11//2266//0088 33::0077::4455 AAMM

[54] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

chromatography (LC), which separates compounds into

their chemical components for purification and quality

control. For example, an LC machine might test water for

contaminants or oil for impurities. A firm that wanted to

switch from a Waters LC machine to a competitor not

only would need to fork out the substantial cost of a new

LC machine—in the neighborhood of $50,000 to

$100,000—but also would need to retrain a small army of

lab technicians to use the new machine, which results in

lost time and decreased productivity. Because the LC pro-

cess requires the constant use of consumables that are

extremely profitable for Waters, you can see how these

switching costs help Waters achieve remarkable returns

on invested capital north of 30 percent.

You’ll notice I haven’t mentioned many consumer-ori-

ented firms, such as retailers, restaurants, packaged-goods

companies, and the like. That’s because low switching costs

are the main weakness of these kinds of companies. You can

walk from one clothing store to another, or choose a differ-

ent brand of toothpaste at the grocery store, with almost no

effort whatsoever. That makes it very hard for retailers and

restaurants to create moats around their businesses. Some,

like Wal-Mart and Home Depot, can do it through econo-

mies of scale, and some, like Coach, can create moats by

building strong brands—but in general, consumer-oriented