SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Brand Valuation
SUMMARY: The text analyzes how brand value can affect pricing power, even for similar products, using examples like Sony, Tiffany, and USG.
KEYWORDS: brand value, pricing power, brand premium, intangible assets, product differentiation
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

brand is valuable within a certain market niche—ask

whether the company is able to charge a premium relative

to similar competing products. If not, the brand may not

be worth very much.

Look at Sony, for example, which certainly has a well-

known brand. Now ask yourself whether you would pay

more for a DVD player solely because it has the Sony

name on it, if you were comparing it to a DVD player

cc0033..iinndddd 3300 11//2266//0088 33::0077::0000 AAMM

INTANGIBLE ASSETS [31]

with similar features from Philips Electronics or Samsung

or Panasonic. Odds are good that you wouldn’t—at least

most people wouldn’t—because features and price gener-

ally matter more to consumers when buying electronics

than brands do.

Now compare Sony with two companies that sell very

different products, jewelry merchant Tiffany & Company

and building-products supplier USG Corporation. What

these three firms have in common is that they all sell prod-

ucts that are not very different from those sold by their

competitors. Take off the Sony label, and its gadgets seem

the same as anyone else’s. Remove a Tiffany diamond

from the blue box, and it looks no different than one sold

by Blue Nile or Borsheims. And USG’s “ Sheetrock”-

branded drywall is exactly the same as the drywall sold by

its competitors.

Yet Tiffany is able to charge consumers a lot more on

average for diamonds with the same specifications as those

sold by its competitors, mainly because they come in a

pretty blue box. For example, as of this writing, a 1.08-

carat, ideal-cut diamond with G color and VS1 clarity

mounted in a platinum band sold for $13,900 from

Tiffany. A diamond ring of the exact same size, color, and

clarity, a similar cut, and a platinum band sold for $8,948

from Blue Nile. (That’s an expensive blue box!) USG’s

story is even more amazing, because unlike Tiffany—which

cc0033..iinndddd 3311 11//2266//0088 33::0077::0000 AAMM

[32] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

is a luxury brand that would more logically be able to

command a premium—USG sells drywall, about the most

pedestrian product imaginable. Moreover, USG’s wall-

board is basically the same as its competitors’. Check out

how USG describes Sheetrock:

. . . fire-resistant gypsum core encased in 100% recycled

natural-finish face paper and 100% recycled liner paper

on the back side. The face paper is folded around the

long edges to reinforce and protect the core, and

the ends are square-cut and finished smooth. Long edges

of panels are tapered, allowing joints to be reinforced

and concealed with a USG Interior Finish System.

Now, compare this with a competitor’s description of

its wallboard:

. . . fire-resistant gypsum core that is encased in 100%

recycled natural-finish paper on the face side and sturdy

liner paper on the back side. The face paper is folded

around the long edges to reinforce and protect the core,

with the ends being square-cut and finished smooth.

Long edges of the panels are tapered, allowing joints to

be reinforced and concealed with a joint compound

system.

The two descriptions are the same—almost verbatim.

But Sheetrock regularly commands a 10 percent to 15

percent price premium because USG markets heavily to

the construction trade, and has built up a reputation for

durability and strength.

cc0033..iinndddd 3322 11//2266//0088 33::0077::0000 AAMM

INTANGIBLE ASSETS [33]

If a company can charge more for the same product

than its peers just by selling it under a brand, that brand

very likely constitutes a formidable economic moat. Think

about Bayer aspirin—it’s the same chemical compound as

other aspirins, but Bayer can charge almost twice as much

as generic aspirin. That’s a powerful brand.

Of course, the ability to brand a true commodity

product is relatively rare—most brands are attached to

differentiated products like Coke, Oreo cookies, or

Mercedes-Benz cars. In these cases, the brand is valuable

because it reduces a customer’s search costs, but it

doesn’t necessarily give the company pricing power. In

other words, you know what a soft drink will taste like if

it is labeled “Coke,” and you know that a car will be luxu-

rious and durable because it is made by Daimler AG—but

Cokes don’t cost more then Pepsis, and Mercedes-Benzes

don’t cost more than BMWs.

Coke and Pepsi cost about the same, but they taste

different. The same goes for Oreos and Hydrox cookies.

Mercedes-Benz can’t charge a premium relative to similar

cars, but it works hard to ensure that its products live up

to the reputation for quality and durability that the brand

conveys. But because producing cars that outlast the com-

petition costs money, it is hard to argue that Mercedes-

Benz has a profitability advantage due to its brand.

cc0033..iinndddd 3333 11//2266//0088 33::0077::0000 AAMM

[34] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

The big danger in a brand-based economic moat is

that if the brand loses its luster, the company will no lon-

ger be able to charge a premium price. For example, Kraft

used to absolutely dominate the market for shredded

cheese until grocery stores introduced private-label prod-

ucts and consumers realized they could get pretty much

the same thing—after all, processed cheese is processed

cheese—for a lower price.

The bottom line is that brands c an create durable

competitive advantages, but the popularity of the brand

matters much less than whether it actually affects consum-

ers’ behavior. If consumers will pay more for a product—

or purchase it with regularity—solely because of the brand,

you have strong evidence of a moat. But there are plenty

of well-known brands attached to products and companies

that struggle to earn positive economic returns.

P atent Lawyers Drive Nice Cars

Wouldn’t it be great to get legal protection completely

barring competitors from selling your product? That’s

what patents do, and while they can be immensely valu-

able sources of economic moats, they are not always as

durable a competitive advantage as you might think.

First, patents have a finite life, and it’s a virtual cer-