SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Industry Disruption and Moat Erosion
SUMMARY: This text analyzes how technological and industry changes have eroded the competitive moats of once-profitable businesses like Kodak, newspapers, and telephony.
KEYWORDS: technological disruption, industry consolidation, competitive moats, business model erosion, industry changes
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

profitable business of selling celluloid, paper, and chemi-

cals that Kodak enjoyed in the past.

Newspapers were once some of the best businesses in

the world, reliably throwing off massive cash flows through

their lock on local news, advertising, and classifieds. No

more—the Internet has done irrevocable damage to the

business of distributing daily news. Newspapers aren’t

about to disappear, but it’s unlikely they will ever be as

profitable as they once were.

The Internet has also permanently killed long-distance

telephony, another business that was once incredibly

cc0088..iinndddd 110066 11//2266//0088 33::1100::1133 AAMM

ERODING MOATS [107]

profitable. Phone companies for decades minted money as

the gatekeepers of connectivity between far-flung individuals

and businesses. Now that phone calls can be routed over

Internet-protocol networks, the legacy telecom carriers face

structurally worse economics than they once did. Anyone

with a computer and a free piece of software can make calls

for pennies per minute, and a once-reliable source of cash for

long-distance carriers is now gone forever.

And you can ask any well-coiffed music executive

what the Internet has done to the music-publishing busi-

ness. Ouch.

A final example that should be near and dear to the

hearts of investors is the experience of equity exchanges—

and especially floor traders and specialists—over the past

few decades. Once NASDAQ became a viable competitor

by the late 1970s and demonstrated that an all-electronic

exchange was a cheaper alternative to a floor-based exchange,

Pandora’s box was opened. Increasing volume on NAS-

DAQ, combined with ever-lower communications and com-

puting costs, spurred the creation of off-exchange trading

networks like Archipelago. The more trading volume that

bypassed floor traders and specialists, the more precari-

ous their positions became, with the added headwind of

tighter bid-ask spreads hurting profit margins.

Granted, the kind of technological disruption that

structurally damages the economics of an entire industry

cc0088..iinndddd 110077 11//2266//0088 33::1100::1133 AAMM

[108] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

is relatively rare—but it’s a painful experience for investors

who are unable to recognize the change in time. One thing

to remember is that disruptive technologies can hurt the

moats of businesses that are e nabled by technology even

more than businesses that s ell technology, even though

investors in technology-enabled firms may not think they

own a tech stock.

Industrial Earthquakes

Just as changes in the technological scene can cause once-

strong moats to erode, shifts in the structure of industries

can also cause lasting damage to companies’ competitive

advantages. One common change to watch out for is con-

solidation of a once-fragmented group of customers.

In the United States, the rise of big-box retailers like

Target, Wal-Mart, and others has permanently changed the

economics of many consumer-products companies for

the worse. Although a number of factors have contributed

to decreased pricing power for firms like Clorox and

Newell Rubbermaid, the increased buying power of a

concentrated group of customers certainly tops the list.

In Newell’s case, the company’s brands have also been

hurt by Office Max and Staples, which have been pushing

private-label office supplies.

In another area of retail, the demise of mom-and-pop

hardware stores and their replacement by the Lowe’s/

cc0088..iinndddd 110088 11//2266//0088 33::1100::1133 AAMM

ERODING MOATS [109]

Home Depot duopoly has hurt the economics of many

hardware suppliers. Even companies with venerable

brands like Stanley Works or Black & Decker have lost

pricing power now that they sell a sizable percentage of

their wares through Lowe’s and Home Depot, which have

far more negotiating leverage than a fragmented group of

independent hardware stores.

Changes in the industry landscape needn’t be local,

of course. The entry of low-cost workforces in Eastern

Europe, China, and elsewhere into the global labor pool

has permanently damaged the economics of many manu-

facturing businesses. In some cases, the labor differential

is so large that companies that may have once benefited

from a location-based moat have seen that competitive

advantage disappear, as the cost savings from low-cost

labor is large enough to offset high transportation costs.

The wood-furniture industry in the United States has

seen this happen firsthand.

One final change to watch out for is the entry of an

irrational competitor into an industry. Companies that are

deemed strategic by a national government may take

actions that support political or social goals, even though

they result in lower profitability. For example, the busi-

ness of making jet engines for aircraft has been for years

a comfortable oligopoly among General Electric, Pratt &

Whitney (owned by United Technologies), and UK-based

cc0088..iinndddd 110099 11//2266//0088 33::1100::1133 AAMM

[110] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

Rolls-Royce. Standard practice in the industry for a long

time has been to sell the engines at or somewhat below

cost, and to make money on lucrative service contracts;

because jet engines can last for decades, the lengthy

stream of service fees can be quite profitable.

But in the mid-1980s, Rolls-Royce ran into some finan-

cial difficulties and needed subsidies from the British gov-

ernment to keep the company alive. In order to save jobs

and win business at one of the country’s highest-profile

firms, management began cutting prices on both engines

and maintenance contracts. Unfortunately, this practice

continued for years after Rolls-Royce returned to consis-

tent profitability, with the result that margins for Pratt and

GE suffered for a while, as they were forced to match

Rolls’ pricing. Jet engines remained a good business with a

decent economic moat, and GE’s margins in particular

have rebounded, but Rolls’ actions hurt all three players at

the time.

T he Bad Kind of Growth

Some kinds of growth can cause moats to erode. In fact,

I’d say the single most common self-inflicted wound to

competitive advantage occurs when a company pursues

growth in areas where it has no moat. Most corporate

managers think bigger is always better (in fairness, man-

agers at larger companies tend to get paid more than

cc0088..iinndddd 111100 11//2266//0088 33::1100::1144 AAMM

ERODING MOATS [111]

managers at smaller companies, so it’s not illogical in