SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Business Services and Financial Services
SUMMARY: The text discusses the prevalence of moats in the business services and financial services sectors, highlighting examples of niche-dominating firms and the factors contributing to their competitive advantages.
KEYWORDS: business services, financial services, moats, competitive advantages, niche-dominating firms
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

Bradstreet and Equifax (credit histories). This part of the

market also has an outsize number of niche-dominating

firms like Stericycle (medical waste), Moody’s Investors

Service (bond ratings), FactSet (financial data aggregation),

and Blackbaud (fund-raising software for nonprofits).

Although business services firms may be further from

cc0099..iinndddd 112222 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5555 AAMM

FINDING MOATS [123]

your everyday radar screen, they’re usually worth the effort

it takes to get to know them, given how rich in moats the

sector tends to be.

The financial-services sector is another great place to

look for companies with moats. Barriers to entry are quite

high in some areas—who is going to start up a bulge-bracket

investment bank to compete with Goldman Sachs, Lehman

Brothers, and their ilk?—and switching costs protect the

profits of even your most average bank, as we discussed in

Chapter 4 . Sticky assets lead to very durable returns

on capital at almost every asset manager, and financial

exchanges like the Chicago Merc and the NYMEX reap

huge benefits from the network effect. Moats are harder to

dig in the insurance industry, despite wide-moat outliers

like Progressive Casualty Insurance Company and Ameri-

can International Group (AIG), because the products are

more commodity-like and the switching costs are quite low.

Also, many smaller specialty lenders and real estate invest-

ment trusts have a tough time building durable competitive

advantages. Like business services companies, financial

firms can take more work to understand—for one thing,

their financial statements look very different than those of

most companies—but the potential returns make the effort

worthwhile. Moats abound in this area of the market.

Consumer goods is the home of many of the companies

Warren Buffett has called “the inevitables”—companies such

cc0099..iinndddd 112233 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5555 AAMM

[124] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

as Coca-Cola, Colgate-Palmolive, Wrigley, and Procter &

Gamble, with incredibly durable brands and products that

don’t go out of style. Along with financial services, this

sector has one of the highest percentages of wide-moat

firms. It is easy to see why: Brands like Doublemint gum

and Colgate toothpaste aren’t built overnight, and it takes

a lot of capital to maintain them through advertising and

constant innovation. The sector is another great place to

look for moats, but be wary of firms where the brand’s

value may be fleeting (clothing manufacturers like Kenneth

Cole or Tommy Hilfiger), private-label products may

threaten (Kraft or Del Monte), or low-cost labor may be

permanently altering the industry’s economics (Ethan

Allen or Steelcase). And while “the inevitables” may be

the best known, don’t ignore niche-dominating companies

like McCormick & Company (spices), Mohawk Industries

(carpets), Tiffany ( jewelry), or Sealed Air (packaging).

When cost is all that matters, it’s tough for many

companies in an industry to dig a moat, which is one of the

big reasons that we see so few moats in industrial materials.

Whether you are mining for metal, producing chemicals,

making steel, or banging out auto parts, it is very hard to

differentiate your product from those sold by your com-

petitors, which means that all your customers care about

is price. And like it or not, only a few companies in any com-

modity industry can truly have sustainable cost advantages.

cc0099..iinndddd 112244 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5555 AAMM

FINDING MOATS [125]

In the metals area, we find that only the biggest of the

big—companies like BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto—are

able to create moats.

Don’t write off industrial companies entirely, though—

because that’s what many investors do. Those willing to dig

can find some real gems in this part of the market. What is

especially attractive is that many investors in industrial stocks

tend to treat them as a monolithic group that you buy when

the economy is getting stronger and sell when it’s getting

weaker. Although it is true that many companies in this sec-

tor are sensitive to the overall economy, the tendency of

the market to throw the baby (firms with moats) out with the

bathwater (no-moat companies) can create big opportunities

for those of us who look for competitive advantage. After

all, this sector is home to niche-dominating firms like

Graco (industrial pumps) and Nalco (water treatment), cost-

advantaged companies like Steel Dynamics (steel) and Vulcan

(construction aggregates), and companies that benefit from

significant switching costs, like General Dynamics (defense)

and Precision Castparts (advanced metal forgings). There

are plenty of moats in the old economy, if you know what to

look for.

On the surface, energy stocks seem much like commodity

metals, but moats are more prevalent here than you might

think for two reasons. First, companies that specialize

in producing natural gas benefit from the difficulty of

cc0099..iinndddd 112255 11//2266//0088 33::1100::5555 AAMM

[126] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

transporting gas over long distances. Although copper or

even coal can be shipped around the world pretty easily,

natural gas can really only be transported economically via

pipeline—and pipelines don’t cross oceans. As a result, nat-

ural-gas producers in North America can create moats by

having lower costs than their nearby competitors, because

they don’t need to compete against supercheap natural

gas coming out of the Middle East. So, North American gas

producers can create moats by developing reserves that

are low on the cost curve and have a reasonable life. Unlike

natural gas, oil is traded globally—but also unlike natural

gas, there’s this cartel called the Organization of Petro-

leum Exporting Countries (OPEC) that does a pretty good

job at keeping the price of oil relatively high. Those high

prices create decent returns on capital for many (not all)

oil producers, in addition to the fact that only a small num-

ber of well-capitalized giants have the resources to develop

the increasingly hard-to-access oil fields that are being

discovered.

We also find lots of moats in a small niche of the

energy sector that is, surprisingly, not all that well-known:

pipelines. Many of the companies that operate the vast

network of pipelines used to transport natural gas, gasoline,