SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Regulatory Barriers and Competitive Advantages
SUMMARY: The text discusses how regulatory approvals and accreditations create significant barriers to entry and competitive advantages for companies in industries like slot machines and for-profit education.
KEYWORDS: regulatory barriers, accreditation, competitive advantage, NIMBY companies, local approvals
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

machine industry in the United States, and there hasn’t

been a new competitor in many years. You might have

expected an upstart to use WMS’s troubles as an oppor-

tunity to break into the industry, given that selling slots is

a very profitable business, but that didn’t happen, partly

because the regulatory barriers are so high.

Companies that offer higher-education degrees, like

Strayer Education or Apollo Group, also need regulatory

approvals, called accreditation. There are different levels

of accreditation in the United States, and the most valu-

able one—which makes it easier for students to transfer

credits to public universities—is not at all easy to get.

Having accreditation is a huge competitive advantage

by itself, because a degree from a nonaccredited school is

worth far less to students than one from an accredited

school. Moreover, only accredited schools can accept fed-

erally subsidized student loans, and because these are a

huge source of revenue for most nonelite educational

institutions, potential competitors are put at a further dis-

advantage. Essentially, there is no way to compete with

cc0033..iinndddd 3388 11//2266//0088 33::0077::0011 AAMM

INTANGIBLE ASSETS [39]

the incumbents in this highly profitable industry without

being accredited, and accreditation is given out only

grudgingly by the regulatory agencies.

Moody’s, the slot machine industry, and the for-profit

education industry are all examples of single licenses or

approvals giving companies sustainable competitive advan-

tages. But this kind of moat isn’t always based on one

large license; sometimes a collection of smaller, hard-to-

get approvals can dig an equally wide moat.

My favorite example of this is what I call the NIMBY

(“not in my backyard”) companies, such as waste haulers

and aggregate producers. After all, who wants a landfill

or stone quarry located in their neighborhood? Almost

no one, which means that existing landfills and stone quar-

ries are extremely valuable. As such, getting new ones

approved is close to impossible.

Trash and gravel may not sound exciting, but the moat

created by scores of mini-approvals is very durable. After

all, companies like trash haulers and aggregate firms rely

on hundreds of municipal-level approvals that are unlikely

to disappear overnight en masse.

What really makes these locally approved landfills

and quarries so valuable for companies like Waste

Management and Vulcan Materials is that waste and

gravel are inherently local businesses. You can’t profitably

dump trash hundreds of miles from where it is collected,

cc0033..iinndddd 3399 11//2266//0088 33::0077::0022 AAMM

[40] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

and you can’t truck aggregates much farther than 40 or

50 miles from a quarry without pricing yourself out of the

market. (Trash is heavy, and gravel is even heavier.) So,

local approvals for landfills and quarries create scores of

mini-moats in these industries.

Contrast waste and gravel with another industry that

has strong NIMBY characteristics—refining. Although

there hasn’t been a new refinery built in the United States

for decades, and local approvals for expansions of existing

refineries are pretty tough to come by, the economic situ-

ation of a refinery isn’t nearly as good as that of a landfill

or quarry. The reason is simple: Refined gasoline has a

much higher value-to-weight ratio, and it can also be

moved very cheaply via pipelines.

So, if a refinery tried to raise prices in a particular area,

gasoline from more distant refineries would flow into the

locality to take advantage of the higher prices. As a result,

while there are regional variations in gasoline pricing, refin-

ers generally can barely eke out high-single-digit to low-teens

returns on capital over a cycle, while aggregate producers

and waste haulers enjoy much steadier returns on invested

capital in the mid to upper teens over many years.

O ne Moat Down, Three to Go

Although intangible assets may be just that—I can’t haul

a brand or patent off a shelf and show it to you—they can

cc0033..iinndddd 4400 11//2266//0088 33::0077::0022 AAMM

INTANGIBLE ASSETS [41]

be extremely valuable as sources of competitive a dvantage.

They key in assessing intangible assets is thinking about

how much value they can create for a company, and how

long they are likely to last.

A well-known brand that doesn’t confer pricing power

or promote customer captivity is not a competitive advan-

tage, no matter how familiar people may be with it. And a

regulatory approval that doesn’t create high returns on

capital—think refiners—isn’t all that valuable. Finally, a

patent portfolio that is too vulnerable to legal challenge,

perhaps because it’s not diversified, or perhaps because

the company has nothing in the pipeline as a follow-up,

doesn’t constitute much of a moat.

But if you can find a brand that gives pricing power,

or a regulatory approval that limits competition, or a

company with a diversified set of patents and a solid his-

tory of innovation, then the odds are good you’ve found a

company with a moat.

The Bottom Line

1. Popular brands aren’t always profitable brands.

If a brand doesn’t entice consumers to pay more,

it may not create a competitive advantage.

(continued)

cc0033..iinndddd 4411 11//2266//0088 33::0077::0022 AAMM

[42] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

2 . Patents are wonderful to have, but patent lawyers

are not poor. Legal challenges are the biggest risk

to a patent moat.

3. Regulations can limit competition—isn’t it great

when the government does something nice for

you? The best kind of regulatory moat is one

created by a number of small-scale rules, rather

than one big rule that could be changed.

cc0033..iinndddd 4422 11//2266//0088 33::0077::0022 AAMM

h a p te r F o

C u

r

Switching Costs

(cid:1)

Sticky Customers Aren’t Messy,

They’re Golden .

W

you changed banks?

HEN WAS THE LAST TIME

Unless you have moved recently, I’ll bet the answer is

“It’s been awhile,” and you wouldn’t be alone in sticking

with your current bank. If you talk to bankers, you’ll find

that the average turnover rate for deposits is around

15 percent, implying that the average customer keeps his