SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Competitive Advantage Analysis
SUMMARY: This text examines the factors that contribute to a firm's competitive advantage, questioning the assumption that high market share or operational efficiency alone constitute a sustainable advantage.
KEYWORDS: competitive advantage, market share, operational efficiency, moat, business strategy
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

So, the question to ask is not w hether a firm has high mar-

ket share, but rather h ow the firm achieved that share,

which will give you insight into how defensible that domi-

nant position will be.

And in some cases, high market share makes very little

difference. For example, in the orthopedic-device i ndustry—

artificial hips and knees—even the smaller players crank out

very solid returns on invested capital, and market shares

change glacially. There is relatively little benefit to being

big in this market, because orthopedic surgeons typically

don’t make implant decisions based on price.

Also, switching costs are relatively high because each

company’s device is implanted in a slightly different fash-

ion, so doctors tend to stick with one company’s devices,

and these switching costs are the same for all industry play-

ers, regardless of size. Finally, technological innovations

are incremental, so there is not much benefit to having an

outsized research budget.

So, size c an help a company create a competitive

advantage—more on this in Chapter 7 —but it is rarely the

source of an economic moat by itself. Likewise, high mar-

ket share is not necessarily a moat.

What about operational efficiency, often labeled as

“great execution”? Some companies are praised for being

good at blocking and tackling, and experience shows that

some companies manage to achieve goals more reliably than

cc0022..iinndddd 2211 11//2266//0088 33::0066::3311 AAMM

[22] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

competitors do. Isn’t running a tight ship a competitive

advantage?

Sadly, no—absent some structural competitive advantage,

it’s not enough to be more efficient than one’s competitors. In

fact, if a company’s success seems to be based on being leaner

and meaner than its peers, odds are good that it operates in a

very tough and competitive industry in which efficiency is the

only way to prosper. Being more efficient than your peers is a

fine strategy, but it’s not a sustainable competitive advantage

unless it is based on some proprietary process that can’t be

easily copied.

Talented CEOs are fourth in our parade of mistaken

moats. A strong management team may very well help a

company perform better—and all else equal, you’d certainly

rather own a company run by geniuses than one managed by

also-rans—but having a smart person at the helm is not a

sustainable competitive advantage for a wide variety of rea-

sons. For one thing, the few studies that have been done

to try to isolate the effect of managerial decisions show that

management’s impact on corporate performance is not

that large, after controlling for industry and a variety of

other factors. This makes sense, given that the practical

impact that one person can have on a very large organization

is likely not all that large in the majority of cases.

More important, picking great managers is unlikely

to be a useful forward-looking endeavor, and our goal in

cc0022..iinndddd 2222 11//2266//0088 33::0066::3311 AAMM

MISTAKEN MOATS [23]

identifying moats is to try to gain some sense of c onfidence

in the sustainability of a company’s future performance.

Executives come and go, after all, especially in an era in

which hiring a superstar CEO can instantly boost a com-

pany’s market value by billions of dollars. How do we

know that the brilliant manager on whom we’re hanging

our hopes of future outperformance will still be with the

company three years down the road? Generally speaking,

we don’t. (More on management in Chapter 10 .)

And finally, I would submit that assessing managerial

brilliance is far easier e x post than it is e x ante— think back

for a moment on all the rising stars of the executive firma-

ment who have since fallen to earth. The difference between

Cisco Systems CEO John Chambers and Enron’s Kenneth

Lay is far easier to recognize with the benefit of 20/20

hindsight. This would be why you rarely see lists of “the

next decade’s great managers” in the business press.

Instead, all you see are backward-looking surveys and stud-

ies that assume a company’s financial or share-price

performance is largely attributable to the CEO. Surveys of

top corporate managers asking for opinions about their

peers suffer from the same bias.

T hese Moats Are the Real Deal

So, if great products, high market share, efficient oper-

ations, and smart executives are all unreliable signs of

cc0022..iinndddd 2233 11//2266//0088 33::0066::3311 AAMM

[24] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

an economic moat, what should you look for? Here’s

your list:

• A company can have i ntangible assets, like brands,

patents, or regulatory licenses that allow it to sell

products or services that can’t be matched by com-

petitors.

• The products or services that a company sells may

be hard for customers to give up, which creates

customer switching costs that give the firm pricing

power.

• Some lucky companies benefit from network

economics, which is a very powerful type of economic

moat that can lock out competitors for a long time.

• Finally, some companies have c ost advantages, stemming

from process, location, scale, or access to a unique

asset, which allow them to offer goods or services at a

lower cost than competitors.

In our experience at Morningstar, these four catego-

ries cover the vast majority of firms with moats, and using

them as a filter will steer you in the right direction. We

have thoroughly analyzed the competitive position of

thousands of companies across the globe over the past

several years, so these four characteristics have been

boiled down from a very large data set.

cc0022..iinndddd 2244 11//2266//0088 33::0066::3322 AAMM

MISTAKEN MOATS [25]

This framework for identifying economic moats dif-

fers from a lot of what has been written in the past about

competitive advantage. We think some businesses are

simply better than others—b etter being defined as “more

likely to generate sustainable high returns on capital”—

and there are specific things you can look for to help you