SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Stock Investment Strategies
SUMMARY: The text discusses various reasons to sell stocks, including taking profits, avoiding negative returns, and reducing risk in concentrated portfolios.
KEYWORDS: stock selling, portfolio management, investment decision-making, stock valuation, risk management
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

potential upside from my existing positions with some of

the financial stocks that Wall Street was putting on sale.

The net result was that I sold a position that I hadn’t

owned for very long, but which had only modest upside

potential, to fund the purchase of a bank trading at below

book value, which had already agreed to be taken over at a

higher price—a very worthwhile trade-off.

Remember that sometimes the better place for your

money may very well be cash. If a stock has far surpassed

what you think it is worth and your expected return from

now on is actually negative, then selling it makes sense

even if you don’t have any other good investment ideas at

the time. After all, even the modest return that cash deliv-

ers is better than a negative return—which is exactly what

you’ll get if you own a stock that has run beyond even the

most optimistic assessment of its value.

The final reason to sell is the best one of all. If you’ve

had a screaming success with an investment and its mar-

ket value has grown to make up a big chunk of your port-

folio, it may make sense to dial down the risk and shrink

the position. This is a very personal decision, as some

people are very comfortable with concentrated portfolios

cc1144..iinndddd 119933 11//2266//0088 33::1144::2288 AAMM

[194] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

(at one point in early 2007, half my personal portfolio was

in just two stocks), but many investors are more comfort-

able limiting individual positions to 5 percent or so of

their portfolios. It’s your call, but if you get the willies

having 10 percent of your portfolio in a single stock, even

if it still looks undervalued, listen to your stomach and

trim the position. You have to live with your own portfo-

lio, after all, and if keeping position sizes down makes you

more comfortable, so be it.

Before closing this chapter, I want to quickly draw

your attention to the fact that none of the four reasons to

sell that I’ve laid out is based on what happens to stock

prices. They’re all centered on what happens, or is likely

to happen, to the v alues of the companies whose stock you

own. Selling just because a stock price has dropped makes

absolutely no sense whatsoever, unless the value of the

business has declined as well. Conversely, selling just

because a stock has skyrocketed makes no sense, unless

the value of the business has not increased in tandem.

It’s very tempting to use the past performance of the

stocks in your portfolio to decide when to sell. Remember,

though, that what matters is how you expect a business to

perform in the future, not how its share price has per-

formed in the past. There’s no reason why stocks that are

up a lot should drop, just as there’s no reason why stocks

that have cratered have to come back eventually. If you

cc1144..iinndddd 119944 11//2266//0088 33::1144::2288 AAMM

WHEN TO SELL [195]

own a stock that is down 20 percent and the business has

gotten worse and isn’t getting better, you might as well

book the loss and take the tax break. The trick is to always

stay focused on the future performance of the business,

not the past performance of the shares.

The Bottom Line

1. If you have made a mistake analyzing the company,

and your original reason for buying is no longer

valid, selling is likely to be your best option.

2. It would be great if solid companies never

changed, but that’s rarely the case. If the funda-

mentals of a company change permanently—not

temporarily—for the worse, you may want to sell.

3. The best investors are always looking for the best

places for their money. Selling a modestly under-

valued stock to fund the purchase of a supercheap

stock is a smart strategy. So is selling an overval-

ued stock and parking the proceeds in cash if there

aren’t any attractively priced stocks at the time.

4. S elling a stock when it becomes a huge part of

your portfolio can make sense, depending on your

risk tolerance.

cc1144..iinndddd 119955 11//2266//0088 33::1144::2288 AAMM

cc1144..iinndddd 119966 11//2266//0088 33::1144::2288 AAMM

C

o n cl usi

o

n

More than Numbers

(cid:1)

I

.

LOVE THE STOCK MARKET

I don’t love all the raving and ranting about job

reports and Federal Reserve meetings, nor the breathless

discussions of quarterly earnings reports minutes after

they hit the newswires. Most if this is just noise, anyway,

and has little bearing on the long-term value of individual

companies. I largely ignore it, and so should you.

What does get me up in the morning is the opportu-

nity to see how thousands of companies all try to solve the

exact same problem: How do I make more money than

my competitor across the street? Companies can create

bbootthh0011..iinndddd 119977 11//2266//0088 33::1155::3399 AAMM

[198] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

competitive advantages in a wide variety of ways, and see-

ing what separates the great from the merely good is an

endlessly fascinating intellectual exercise.

Of course, it can be financially rewarding as well,

assuming you wait patiently for quality businesses to trade

for less than their intrinsic value before making an invest-

ment. The key is to realize that you can let the companies

in your portfolio do some of the heavy lifting for you in

terms of investment returns. Companies with strong com-

petitive advantages can regularly post returns on capital

of 20(cid:1) percent, which is a rate of return that very few

money managers can achieve over long periods of time. *

The opportunity to become part owner of enterprises that

can compound capital at such a rate—especially if your

ownership stakes are purchased for 80 cents on the dollar—

has the potential to build a lot of wealth over time.