SOURCE: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Market Concentration and Network Effects
SUMMARY: This text examines how network effects create natural monopolies and oligopolies, with a focus on the competitive advantages of American Express and Microsoft.
KEYWORDS: network effect, market concentration, competitive advantage, American Express, Microsoft
---

[Document: Little-Book-That-Builds-Wealth_Dorsey.pdf]

a tiny number of users. That huge network of merchants

is what gives Amex a competitive advantage over any

other company that may want to start up a new credit

card. The more places you can use your Amex card, the

more valuable that card becomes to you, which is a big

reason behind the company’s recent push to get Amex

accepted at smaller merchants like convenience stores

and gas stations.

Now think about how many large credit card net-

works there are in the United States. The top four—Visa,

MasterCard, Amex, and Discover—account for 85 per-

cent of all spending on credit cards nationwide. That’s a

huge amount of market concentration, and it illustrates

a fundamental reason why the network effect can be an

extremely powerful competitive advantage: Network-

based businesses tend to create natural monopolies and

oligopolies. As economist and academic Brian Arthur has

succinctly put it, “Of networks, there will be few.”

cc0055..iinndddd 6600 11//2266//0088 33::0088::2211 AAMM

THE NETWORK EFFECT [61]

This makes a lot of sense. If the value of a good or

service increases with the number of people using it, then

the most valuable network-based products will be the ones

that attract the most users, creating a virtuous circle that

squeezes out smaller networks and increases the size of

dominant networks. And as the dominant networks get

bigger, they also get stronger. That sounds like a pretty

powerful competitive advantage.

But of course, the very nature of the network effect

means that there won’t be a very large number of busi-

nesses that benefit from it, given the propensity of net-

works to consolidate around the leader. Let’s put this theory

to the test in a simple way by looking at the companies in

the Dow Jones Industrial Average and seeing which ones

benefit from the network effect.

It turns out that only two companies in the Dow

derive the bulk of their competitive advantage from the

network effect—Amex and Microsoft. We’ve already

talked about Amex’s moat, and the way the network effect

helps Microsoft is fairly easy to understand as well. Lots

of people use Word, Office, and Windows because,

well—lots of people use Word, Office, and Windows.

It’s hard to argue that Windows is the acme of PC

operating systems, but its massive user base means that

you pretty much have to know how to operate a Windows-

based PC to survive in corporate America. Word and

cc0055..iinndddd 6611 11//2266//0088 33::0088::2211 AAMM

[62] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

Excel are similar. Even if a competitor showed up on the

scene next week with a word processor or spreadsheet that

was five times easier to use and half the price, it would

have a hard time gaining traction in the market because

Excel and Word have become (like it or not) the common

language of knowledge workers around the world.

In fact, there has been an Office competitor called

“OpenOffice” on the market for several years, selling for

a lot less than Excel and Word—it’s actually free, which

is a tough price to beat. The word-processing and spread-

sheet programs look and feel a lot like Word and Excel,

and the files are (largely) compatible with their Microsoft

analogs. I’ve tried OpenOffice, and it’s pretty good. But it

really hasn’t gained much market share among mainstream

businesses because there are some small differences, and

since the rest of the world still uses Microsoft Office, peo-

ple don’t want to bother using a program that produces

files they might not be able to share with others.

If a product that is pretty good and costs nothing

can’t dent a company’s market share, I think you can

safely say that company has a competitive advantage.

There is another interesting fact that comes out of

our quick tour through the Dow, which is that Amex and

Microsoft both operate in relatively new industries. Credit

cards have been around for only a few decades, after all,

and the PC industry is even younger. As you look for

cc0055..iinndddd 6622 11//2266//0088 33::0088::2211 AAMM

THE NETWORK EFFECT [63]

network-based businesses, you’ll find this is not a fluke—

the network effect is much more common among busi-

nesses based on information or knowledge transfer than

among businesses based on physical capital.

This is the case because information is what econo-

mists call a “nonrival” good. Most goods can be used by

only one person at a time—if I buy a big earthmover from

Caterpillar, no one else can use it while I’m excavating a

foundation. (These types of things are called “rival”

goods.) But I can use the Amex payment network at the

same time as millions of other cardholders, in the same

way that all those cardholders could use the New York

Stock Exchange (NYSE) at the same time to find out how

much some shares of American Express would cost. One

person’s use of the Amex network or the NYSE does not

impede the ability of others to use those networks—and in

fact, the more people who use these networks, the more

valuable they are to others.

The bottom line is that you’re most likely to find the

network effect in businesses based on sharing informa-

tion, or connecting users together, rather than in busi-

nesses that deal in rival (physical) goods. As we’ll see later

in the chapter, this is not exclusively the case, but it’s a

good rule of thumb.

By this point, I imagine that you have a good idea of

why network effects are such a powerful competitive

cc0055..iinndddd 6633 11//2266//0088 33::0088::2211 AAMM

[64] THE LITTLE BOOK THAT BUILDS WEALTH

advantage: A competing firm would need to replicate the

network—or at least come close—before users would see

more value in the new network and switch away from

the existing one. Generally speaking, that’s a really tall

order. It can happen under the right set of circumstances,

as we’ll see when we discuss financial exchanges later in

the chapter, but network-based businesses are usually