SOURCE: Managing_by_Walking_Around_Additional Reading.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Management by Walking Around (MBWA)
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Management
SUMMARY: Managing by walking around emphasizes interpersonal contact, open appreciation, and recognition to build civility and performance in the workplace.
KEYWORDS: employee engagement, employee appreciation, communication, workplace culture, management by walking around
---

[Document: Managing_by_Walking_Around_Additional Reading.pdf]

Proposition 35

Managing by Walking Around

In a Word Management by walking around emphasizes the importance of inter-

personalcontact,openappreciation,andrecognition.Itisoneofthemostimportant

ways to build civility and performance in the workplace.

Background

Thehallmarksofthemodernorganizationaresatelliteoffices,remoteoffices,home

offices, virtual offices, hoteling facilities, and the electronic mail that underpins—

and promotes—these. Today, knowledge workers receive few telephone calls and

electronic mail is their communication vehicle of choice. (The use of videocon-

ferencingisgrowingtoo.)Afterall,whyshouldtheywalkaroundiftheycantype,

point, and click? At the receiving end, managers are known to collect more than

150 messages each day. Yet, as knowledge workers on the rise tote up electronic

status, they also distance themselves from colleagues.

Managing by walking around was popularized by Tom Peters1 and Robert

Watermanintheearly1980sbecauseitwas(alreadythen) feltthatmanagers were

becomingisolatedfromtheirsubordinates.AtHewlett-Packard,wheretheapproach

1Peterssawmanagingbywanderingaroundasthebasisofleadershipandexcellenceandcalledit

thetechnologyoftheobvious.

©AsianDevelopmentBank2017 321

O.Serrat,KnowledgeSolutions,DOI10.1007/978-981-10-0983-9_35

322 35 ManagingbyWalkingAround

was practiced from 1973, executives were encouraged to know their people,

understand their work, and at the same time make themselves more visible and

accessible. Hewlett and Packard’s (1995) business philosophy, centered on deep

respectforpeopleandacknowledgmentoftheirbuilt-indesiretodoagoodjob,had

evolved into informal, decentralized management and relaxed, collegial commu-

nication styles. Theirs was the opposite of drive-by management.

Rationale

The basic principle is that command and control is ineffective in modern organi-

zations.Nothingismoreinstructivethanseeingwhatactuallytranspiresinthereal

world and learning from that. Management by walking around is a leadership

technique that has stood the test of time and can be used by any manager. Except

forvirtualorganizations,2andmostofusstilldonotworkthroughtheseevenifwe

interfacevariouslywiththem,face-to-faceinteractionremainsasurewaytoreceive

andgivefeedbackwherevermanagersseestaffregularly.Why?Because itisstaff,

not managers, who create an organization’s products and deliver its services, and

appreciation of that can only come from knowing what happens on the ground.

Becausepeoplelivetobepartofsomething,andbeingintimatelyintouchopensup

more lines of informal communication3 and produces stronger team dynamics and

performance. The human touch still works best.

Approach

Ifyouwaitforpeopletocometoyou,you’llonlygetsmallproblems.Youmustgo

andfindthem.Thebigproblemsarewherepeopledon’trealizetheyhaveoneinthe

firstplace.

—W.EdwardsDeming

Adeskisadangerousplacefromwhichtoviewtheworld.

—JohnleCarré

2Virtualorganizationsareorganizedentities,whethercorporateorcharitable,thatdoesnotexistin

any one central location but instead exist solely through the Internet. There are social, psycho-

logical, ethical, and technical implications to the nature and rise of these, better discussed

elsewhere.

3In high-performance organizations the intensity of communications is unmistakable. It usually

startswithaninsistenceoninformality.

Approach 323

Managing by walking around requires personal involvement, good listening

skills,andtherecognitionthatmostpeopleinanorganizationwanttocontributeto

itssuccess.Itshouldnotbeforcedandcannotbeacharade.Itworksifyoudisplay

sincerity and civility and are genuinely interested in staff and their work. Try to

1. Wander about as often as you can, but recurrently and preferably daily.

2. Relax as you make your rounds.

3. Share and invite good news.

4. Talk about family, hobbies, vacations, and sports.

5. Watch and listen without judgment.

6. Invite ideas and opinions to improve operations, products, services, etc.

7. Be responsive to problems and concerns.

8. Look out for staff doing something right, and give them public recognition.

9. Project the image of a coach and mentor, not that an inspector.

10. Give staff on-the-spot help.

11. Use the opportunity to transmit the organization’s values.

12. Swap value and legacy stories.

13. Share your dreams.

14. Have fun.

Benefits

Managing by walking around does not just cut through vertical lines of commu-

nication. It also

1. Builds trust and relationships.

2. Motivates staff by suggesting that management takes an active interest in

people.

3. Encourages staff to achieve individual and collective goals.

4. Strengthens ability to drive cultural change for higher organizational

performance.

5. Refreshes organizational values.

6. Makes work less formal.

7. Creates a healthy organization.

Reference

Packard D (1995) The HP way: how Bill Hewlett and I built our company. HarperCollins

Publishers

324 35 ManagingbyWalkingAround

Theopinionsexpressedinthischapterarethoseoftheauthor(s)anddonotnecessarilyreflectthe

viewsoftheAsianDevelopmentBank,itsBoardofDirectors,orthecountriestheyrepresent.

Open Access This chapter is licensed under the terms of the Creative Commons

Attribution-NonCommercial3.0IGOlicense(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/igo/)

whichpermitsanynoncommercialuse,sharing,adaptation,distributionandreproductioninany

mediumorformat,aslongasyougiveappropriatecredittotheAsianDevelopmentBank,provide

alinktotheCreativeCommonslicenseandindicateifchangesweremade.

Any dispute related to the use of the works of the Asian Development Bank that cannot be

settledamicablyshallbesubmittedtoarbitrationpursuanttotheUNCITRALrules.Theuseofthe

Asian Development Bank’s name for any purpose other than for attribution, and the use of the

AsianDevelopmentBank’slogo,shallbesubjecttoaseparatewrittenlicenseagreementbetween

theAsianDevelopmentBankandtheuserandisnotauthorizedaspartofthisCC-IGOlicense.

Notethatthelinkprovidedaboveincludesadditionaltermsandconditionsofthelicense.

Theimagesorotherthirdpartymaterialinthischapterareincludedinthechapter’sCreative

Commons license, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not

included in the chapter’s Creative Commons license and your intended use is not permitted by

statutoryregulationorexceedsthepermitteduse,youwillneedtoobtainpermissiondirectlyfrom

thecopyrightholder.