SOURCE: Marketing-Myopia.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Energy Innovations and the Petroleum Industry
SUMMARY: The text discusses the petroleum industry's reluctance to embrace innovative energy solutions that could replace traditional fuel systems for automobiles.
KEYWORDS: energy innovations, petroleum industry, alternative fuels, customer needs, disruption
---

[Document: Marketing-Myopia.pdf]

forewefirstreducethepricetothepoint where in fuel systems specifically designed to power auto-

we believe more sales will result. Then we go mobiles. Not only are these developments concen-

ahead and try to make the prices. We do not trated in firms outside the petroleum industry, but

botheraboutthecosts.Thenewpriceforcesthe petroleum is almost systematically ignoring them,

costs down. The more usual way is to take the securely content in its wedded bliss to oil. It is the

costsandthendeterminetheprice;andalthough story of the kerosene lamp versus the incandescent

8 HARVARD BUSINESSREVIEW September–October1975

lamp all over again. Oil is trying to improve hydro- companiesactivelyworkingonitindicateabeliefin

carbonfuelsratherthandevelopanyfuelsbestsuited ultimatesuccess...thetimingandmagnitudeofits

to the needs of their users, whether or not made in impactare tooremote towarrantrecognition inour

different ways and with different raw materials from forecasts.”

oil. One might, of course, ask: Why should the oil

Herearesomethingswhichnonpetroleumcompa- companies doanything different?Wouldnotchemi-

nie.sare workingon: calfuelcells,batteries,orsolarenergykillthepresent

productlines?Theansweristhattheywouldindeed,

Over a dozen such firms now have advanced

and that is precisely the reason for the oil firms’

workingmodelsofenergysystemswhich,when

having to develop these power units before their

perfected, will replace the internal combustion

competitorsdo,sotheywillnot be companieswith-

engine and eliminate the demand for gasoline.

out anindustry.

The superior merit of each of these systems is

Management might be more likely to do what is

their elimination of frequent, time-consuming,

needed for its ownpreservationif itthought ofitself

andirritatingrefuelingstops.Mostofthesesys-

asbeing inthe energy business.But eventhat would

tems are fuel cells designed to create electrical

notbeenoughifitpersistsinimprisoningitselfinthe

energy directly from chemicals without com-

narrowgripof itstightproductorientation.Ithasto

bustion.Mostofthemusechemicalsthatarenot

. think of itself as taking care of customer needs, not

derivedfromoil,generallyhydrogenandoxygen.

finding, refining, or even selling oil. Once it genu-

Severalothercompanieshaveadvancedmodels

inely thinksof its business as takingcareof people’s

of electric storage batteries designed to power

transportationneeds, nothing can stopitfromcreat-

automobiles.Oneoftheseisanaircraftproducer

ing its own extravagantlyprofitable growth.

thatisworkingjointlywithseveralelectricutil-

Creative destruction. Since words are cheap and

ity companies. The latter hope to use off-peak

deedsaredear,itmaybeappropriatetoindicatewhat

generating capacity tosupplyovernight plug-in

this kind of thinking involves and leads to. Let us

batteryregeneration.Anothercompany,alsous-

startatthebeginning—thecustomer.Itcanbeshown

ingthebatteryapproach,isamedium-sizeelec-

thatmotoristsstronglydislikethebother,delay,and

tronics firm with extensivesmall-batteryexpe-

experienceofbuyinggasoline.Peopleactuallydonot

rience that it developed in connection with its

buy gasoline. They cannot see it, taste it, feel it,

workonhearingaids.Itiscollaboratingwithan

appreciate it, or really test it. What they buy is the

automobile manufacturer. Recent improve-

right to continue driving their cars. The gas station

ments arising from the need for high-powered

is likeatax collector towhompeoplearecompelled

miniature power storage plants in rockets have

topaya periodic toll as the price ofusingtheircars.

putuswithinreachofarelativelysmallbattery

This makes the gas station a basically unpopular

capable of withstanding great overloads or

institution.Itcanneverbemadepopularorpleasant,

surgesofpower.Germaniumdiodeapplications

onlyless unpopular,less unpleasant.

and batteries using sintered-plate and nickel-

To reduce its unpopularity completely means

cadmiumtechniquespromisetomakearevolu-

. eliminatingit.Nobodylikesataxcollector,noteven

tion inour energysources.

a pleasantly cheerful one. Nobody likes to interrupt

Solarenergyconversionsystemsarealsogetting

a trip to buy a phantom product, not even from a

increasingatten-tion.Oneusually cautious De-

handsomeAdonisoraseductiveVenus.Hence,com-

troit auto executive recently ventured that so-

panies that are working on exotic fuel substitutes

lar-powered carsmightbe common by 1980.

whichwilleliminate theneedforfrequentrefueling

As for the oil companies, they are more or less areheadingdirectlyintotheoutstretchedarmsofthe

“watching developments,” as one research director irritated motorist.They areriding awave ofinevita-

putittome.Afewaredoingabitofresearchonfuel bility, not because they are creating something that

cells, but this research is almost always confined to istechnologicallysuperiorormoresophisticated,but

developingcellspoweredbyhydrocarbonchemicals. becausetheyaresatisfyingapowerfulcustomerneed.

None of them are enthusiastically researching fuel Theyarealsoeliminatingnoxiousodorsandairpol-

cells, batteries, or solar power plants. None of them lution.

arespendingafractionasmuchon researchin these Oncethepetroleumcompaniesrecognizethecus-

profoundly important areas as they are on the usual tomer-satisfyinglogicofwhatanotherpowersystem

run-of-the-mill things like reducing combustion can do, they will see that they have no more choice

chamberdepositingasolineengines.Onemajorinte- about working on an efficient, long-lasting fuel (or

grated petroleum companyrecentlytookatentative somewayofdeliveringpresentfuelswithoutbother-

lookatthefuelcellandconcludedthatalthough“the ingthemotorist)thanthebigfoodchainshadachoice

HARVARDBUSINESSREVIEW September–October1975 9

about going into the supermarket business, or the oriented toward the product rather than the people

vacuum tube companies had a choice aboutmaking who consume it. It develops the philosophy that

semiconductors.Fortheirowngoodtheoilfirmswill continued growth is a matter of continued product

havetodestroytheirownhighlyprofitableassets.No innovationandimprovement.

amount ofwishfulthinkingcansavethem fromthe A number of other factors tend to strengthen and

necessity of engaging in this form of “creative de- sustain this belief:

struction.”

1.Becauseelectronicproductsarehighlycomplex

IphrasetheneedasstronglyasthisbecauseIthink

and sophisticated, managements become top-

management must make quite an effort to break

heavy with engineers and scientists. This cre-

itselfloosefrom conventionalways.Itisalltooeasy

ates a selective bias in favor of research and

in this day and age for a company or industry to let

production at the expense of marketing. The

itssenseofpurposebecomedominatedbytheecono-

organization tends to view itself as making

mies offull productionandtodevelopadangerously

things rather than satisfying customer needs.

lopsided product orientation. In short, if manage-

Marketing gets treated as a residual activity,

mentletsitselfdrift,it invariably drifts in thedirec-

“something else” that must be done once the

tion of thinking of itself as producing goods and

vital job of product creation and production is

services, not customer satisfactions. While it prob-

completed.

ably will not descend to the depths of telling its

2. To this bias in favor of product research, devel-

salespeople, “You get rid of it; we’ll worry about

opment, and production is added the bias in

profits,” it can, without knowing it, be practicing

favorofdealingwithcontrollablevariables.En-

precisely that formula for withering decay. The his-

gineers and scientists are at home in the world

toric fate of one growth industry after another has

of concrete things like machines, test tubes,

beenits suicidal product provincialism.

production lines, and even balance sheets. The

abstractionstowhichtheyfeelkindlyarethose

whicharetestableormanipulatableinthelabo-

DANGERS OF R&D

ratory or, if not testable, then functional, such

as Euclid’s axioms. In short, the managements

Another big danger to a firm’s continued growth

of the new glamor-growth companies tend to

ariseswhentopmanagementiswhollytransfixedby

favorthosebusinessactivitieswhichlendthem-

the profit possibilities of technical research and de-

selves to careful study, experimentation, and

velopment. To illustrate I shall turn first to a new

control—the hard, practical realities of the lab,

industry—electronics—andthenreturnoncemoreto

theshop, the books.

theoilcompanies.Bycomparingafreshexamplewith

a familiar one, I hope to emphasize the prevalence What gets shortchanged are the realities of the

andinsidiousnessof a hazardousway of thinking. market.Consumersareunpredictable,varied,fickle,

Marketingshortchanged.Inthecaseofelectronics, stupid,shortsighted,stubborn,andgenerallybother-

the greatest danger which faces the glamorous new some. This is not what the engineer-managers say,

companies in this field is not that they do not pay butdeepdownintheirconsciousness,itiswhatthey

enough attention to research and development, but believe.Andthisaccountsfortheirconcentratingon