SOURCE: Marketing-Myopia.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Petroleum Industry Analysis
SUMMARY: The text discusses the complacency and wrongheadedness in the petroleum industry, which has led to missed opportunities and near disasters.
KEYWORDS: petroleum industry, complacency, missed opportunities, industry analysis, business strategy
---

[Document: Marketing-Myopia.pdf]

neeringworkindevelopingandapplyingthepresent- managements. For the sake of continuity, because

valuemethodofinvestmentevaluation,inemployee this second belief is tied closely to the first, I shall

relations, and in working with backward countries, continue withthesameexample.

the petroleum business is a distressing example of Idea of Indispensability. The petroleum industry

how complacency and wrongheadedness can stub- isprettymuchpersuadedthatthereisnocompetitive

bornly convert opportunityintoneardisaster. substituteforitsmajorproduct,gasoline—orifthere

One of the characteristics ofthisand other indus- is,thatitwillcontinuetobeaderivativeofcrudeoil,

triesthathavebelievedverystronglyinthebeneficial such asdieselfuelor kerosenejetfuel.

consequences of an expanding population, while at Thereisalotofautomaticwishfulthinkinginthis

thesametimebeingindustrieswithagenericproduct assumption. The trouble is that most refining com-

for which there has appeared to be no competitive paniesownhugeamountsofcrudeoilreserves.These

substitute, is that the individual companies have havevalueonlyifthereisamarketforproductsinto

sought to outdo their competitors by improving on which oil can be converted—hence the tenacious

what they are already doing. This makes sense, of belief in the continuing competitive superiority of

course, if one assumes that sales are tied to the automobile fuels madefromcrudeoil.

country’s population strings, because the customer This idea persists despite all historic evidence

can compare products only on a feature-by-feature against it. The evidence not only shows that oil has

basis.I believeitissignificant, forexample,that not neverbeenasuperiorproductforanypurposeforvery

sinceJohnD.Rockefellersentfreekerosenelampsto long,butitalsoshowsthattheoilindustryhasnever

Chinahastheoilindustrydoneanythingreallyout- reallybeenagrowthindustry.Ithasbeenasuccession

HARVARDBUSINESSREVIEW September–October1975 5

of different businesses that have gone through the themselves should have made the gas revolution.

usualhistoriccyclesof growth,maturity,and decay. Theynotonlyownedthegas;theyalsoweretheonly

Its overall survival isowedto aseriesofmiraculous peopleexperiencedinhandling,scrubbing,andusing

escapes from total obsolescence, of last-minute and it,theonlypeopleexperiencedinpipelinetechnology

unexpectedreprievesfromtotaldisasterreminiscent andtransmission,andtheyunderstoodheatingprob-

of thePerils of Pauline. lems.But, partlybecausetheyknewthatnaturalgas

Perilsofpetroleum.Ishallsketchinonlythemain wouldcompetewiththeirownsaleofheatingoil,the

episodes. oilcompaniespooh-poohed thepotentials of gas.

First, crude oil was largely a patent medicine. But The revolution was finally started by oil pipeline

even before that fad ran out, demand was greatly executives who, unable to persuade their own com-

expanded by the use of oil in kerosene lamps. The paniestogointogas,quitandorganizedthespectacu-

prospectoflightingtheworld’slampsgaverisetoan larly successful gas transmission companies. Even

extravagant promise of growth. The prospects were aftertheirsuccessbecamepainfullyevidenttotheoil

similar to those the industry now holds for gasoline companies, the latter did not go into gas transmis-

inother partsofthe world. Itcan hardlywait forthe sion.The multibillion-dollar businesswhichshould

underdeveloped nations to geta carineverygarage. have been theirs went to others. As in the past, the

Inthedaysofthekerosenelamp,theoilcompanies industry was blinded by its narrow preoccupation

competed with each other and against gaslight by witha specificproduct andthevalueofitsreserves.

trying toimprovethe illuminatingcharacteristicsof It paid little or no attention to its customers’ basic

kerosene. Then suddenly the impossible happened. needs and preferences.

Edisoninventedalightwhichwastotallynondepen- Thepostwaryearshavenotwitnessedanychange.

dentoncrudeoil.Haditnotbeenforthegrowinguse Immediately afterWorldWarII,theoilindustrywas

of kerosene in space heaters, the incandescent lamp greatly encouraged about its future by the rapid ex-

would have completely finished oil as a growth in- pansionofdemandforitstraditionallineofproducts.

dustry at that time. Oil would have been good for In 1950 most companies projected annual rates of

littleelse thanaxle grease. domestic expansion of around 6% through at least

Thendisasterandreprievestruckagain.Twogreat 1975. Though the ratio of crude oil reserves to de-

innovations occurred, neither originating in the oil mandintheFreeWorldwasabout20to1,with10to

industry. The successful development of coal-burn- 1beingusuallyconsideredareasonableworkingratio

ingdomesticcentral-heatingsystemsmadethespace in the United States, booming demand sent oil ex-

heaterobsolete.Whiletheindustryreeled,alongcame plorers searching for more without sufficient regard

its most magnificent boost yet—the internal com- towhatthefuturereallypromised.In1952they“hit”

bustion engine, also invented by outsiders. Then in the Middle East; the ratio skyrocketed to 42to 1.

when the prodigious expansion for gasoline finally If grossadditions to reserves continueat theaverage

began to level off in the 1920s, along came the mi- rateofthepastfiveyears(37billionbarrelsannually),

raculous escape of a central oil heater. Once again, then by 1970 the reserve ratio will be up to 45 to 1.

the escape was provided by an outsider’s invention This abundanceofoil has weakened crudeand prod-

anddevelopment.Andwhenthatmarketweakened, uct pricesall over theworld.

wartimedemandforaviationfuelcametotherescue. Uncertainfuture. Management cannotfindmuch

After the war the expansionofcivilianaviation, the consolation today in the rapidly expanding petro-

dieselization of railroads, and the explosive demand chemicalindustry,anotheroil-usingideathatdidnot

forcarsandtruckskepttheindustry’sgrowthinhigh originateintheleadingfirms.ThetotalUnitedStates

gear. production of petrochemicals is equivalent to about

Meanwhile, centralized oil heating—whose boom 2% (by volume) of the demand for all petroleum

potential had only recently been proclaimed—ran products. Although the petrochemical industry is

into severe competition from natural gas.While the nowexpectedtogrowbyabout10%peryear,thiswill

oil companies themselves owned the gas that now not offset other drains on the growth of crude oil

competed with their oil, the industry did not origi- consumption. Furthermore, while petrochemical

natethenaturalgasrevolution,norhasittothisday productsare manyandgrowing,itiswelltoremem-

greatlyprofitedfromitsgasownership.Thegasrevo- berthattherearenonpetroleumsourcesofthebasic

lutionwasmadebynewlyformedtransmissioncom- raw material, such as coal. Besides, a lot of plastics

panies that marketedthe productwith anaggressive can be produced with relatively little oil. A 50,000-

ardor. They starteda magnificentnewindustry,first barrel-per-day oil refinery is now considered the ab-

against theadviceandthen againsttheresistanceof soluteminimumsize forefficiency.Buta5,000-bar-

theoil companies. rel-per-daychemical plant is agiantoperation.

Byallthelogicofthesituation,theoil companies Oil has never been a continuously strong growth

6 HARVARD BUSINESSREVIEW September–October1975

industry. It has grown by fits and starts, always mi- By contrast, a truly marketing-minded firm tries to

raculously saved by innovations and developments create value-satisfying goods and services that con-

not of its own making. The reason it has not grown sumers will want to buy. What it offers for sale

inasmoothprogressionisthateachtimeitthought includes not only the generic product or service but

it had asuperior product safe fromthepossibilityof alsohowitismadeavailabletothecustomer,inwhat

competitivesubstitutes,theproductturnedouttobe form, when, under what conditions, and at what

inferiorandnotoriouslysubjecttoobsolescence.Un- termsoftrade.Mostimportant,whatitoffersforsale

tilnow,gasoline(formotorfuel,anyhow)hasescaped isdeterminednotbythesellerbutbythebuyer.The

this fate. But, as we shallsee later, it too may be on seller takes cues from the buyer in such a way that

its lastlegs. theproductbecomesaconsequenceofthemarketing

The point of all this is that there is no guarantee effort,not vice versa.

against product obsolescence. If a company’s own LaginDetroit.Thismaysoundlikeanelementary

research does not make it obsolete, another’s will. ruleofbusiness,butthatdoesnotkeepitfrombeing

Unlessanindustryisespeciallylucky,asoilhasbeen violatedwholesale.Itiscertainlymoreviolatedthan

until now, it can easily go down in a sea of red honored. Taketheautomobile industry.

figures—justastherailroadshave,asthebuggywhip Here mass production is most famous, most hon-

manufacturers have, as the corner grocery chains ored, and hasthe greatest impact onthe entire soci-

have,as most ofthe bigmoviecompanieshave,and ety.Theindustryhashitcheditsfortunetotherelent-

indeed asmanyother industrieshave. less requirements of the annual model change, a

The best way for a firm to belucky isto make its policythatmakescustomerorientationanespecially

ownluck.Thatrequiresknowingwhatmakesabusi- urgentnecessity.Consequently,theautocompanies

ness successful. One of the greatest enemies of this annually spend millions of dollars on consumer re-

knowledgeis massproduction. search. But the fact that the new compact cars are

selling so well in their first year indicates that De-