SOURCE: Marketing-Myopia.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Product-Oriented Marketing
SUMMARY: The text discusses how companies in the electronics industry have become too focused on product research and development, neglecting the realities of the market and customer needs.
KEYWORDS: product-oriented marketing, technology focus, customer needs, market realities
---

[Document: Marketing-Myopia.pdf]

ariseswhentopmanagementiswhollytransfixedby

favorthosebusinessactivitieswhichlendthem-

the profit possibilities of technical research and de-

selves to careful study, experimentation, and

velopment. To illustrate I shall turn first to a new

control—the hard, practical realities of the lab,

industry—electronics—andthenreturnoncemoreto

theshop, the books.

theoilcompanies.Bycomparingafreshexamplewith

a familiar one, I hope to emphasize the prevalence What gets shortchanged are the realities of the

andinsidiousnessof a hazardousway of thinking. market.Consumersareunpredictable,varied,fickle,

Marketingshortchanged.Inthecaseofelectronics, stupid,shortsighted,stubborn,andgenerallybother-

the greatest danger which faces the glamorous new some. This is not what the engineer-managers say,

companies in this field is not that they do not pay butdeepdownintheirconsciousness,itiswhatthey

enough attention to research and development, but believe.Andthisaccountsfortheirconcentratingon

that theypay too much attention to it.Andthefact what theyknowand what they can control,namely,

that the fastest growing electronics firms owe their product research, engineering, and production. The

eminence to their heavy emphasis on technical re- emphasisonproductionbecomesparticularlyattrac-

search is completely beside the point. They have tive whenthe product can bemade at declining unit

vaulted to affluence on a sudden crest of unusually costs. There is no more inviting way of making

strong general receptiveness to new technical ideas. money thanby runningtheplant full blast.

Also, their success has been shaped in the virtually Today the top-heavy science–engineering–produc-

guaranteedmarketofmilitarysubsidiesandbymili- tion orientation of so many electronics companies

taryordersthatinmanycasesactuallyprecededthe worksreasonablywellbecausetheyarepushinginto

existence of facilities to make the products. Their new frontiers in whichthearmed services havepio-

expansion has, in other words, been almost totally neeredvirtuallyassuredmarkets.Thecompaniesare

devoidof marketing effort. in the felicitous position of having to fill, not find,

Thus, they are growing up under conditions that markets;ofnothavingtodiscoverwhatthecustomer

come dangerously close to creating the illusionthat needs and wants but of having the customer volun-

a superior product will sell itself. Having created a tarily come forward with specific new product de-

successfulcompanybymakingasuperiorproduct,it mands. If a team of consultants had been assigned

is not surprising that management continues to be specificallytodesignabusiness situationcalculated

10 HARVARD BUSINESSREVIEW September–October1975

.

.

topreventtheemergenceanddevelopmentof acus- “In Refinery Processes”

tomer-oriented marketing viewpoint, it could not “In PipelineOperations”

have produced anything better than the conditions

justdescribed. Significantly, every one of the industry’s major

Stepchildtreatment.Theoilindustryisastunning functional areas is listed, except marketing. Why?

example of how science, technology, and mass pro- Eitheritisbelievedthatelectronicsholdsnorevolu-

ductioncandivertanentiregroupofcompaniesfrom tionary potential for petroleum marketing (whichis

theirmaintask.To theextentthe consumerisstud- palpablywrong),ortheeditorsforgottodiscussmar-

iedatall(whichisnotmuch),thefocusisforeveron keting (which is more likely and illustrates its step-

gettinginformationwhichisdesignedtohelptheoil child status).

companies improve what they are now doing. They The order in which the four functional areas are

trytodiscover moreconvincingadvertisingthemes, listed also betrays the alienation of the oil industry

more effective sales promotional drives, what the from the consumer. The industry is implicitly de-

market shares of the various companies are, what finedasbeginning with the search foroilandending

peoplelikeordislikeaboutservicestationdealersand with its distribution fromthe refinery. But the truth

oil companies, and so forth. Nobody seems as inter- is,itseemstome,thatthe industry beginswiththe

ested in probing deeply into the basic human needs needs of the customer for its products. From that

that the industry might be trying to satisfy as in primal position its definition moves steadily back-

probingintothebasicpropertiesoftherawmaterial stream to areas of progressively lesser importance,

that the companies work with in trying to deliver until it finally comesto restatthe “searchfor oil.”

customersatisfactions. Beginning and end.Theview thatan industryisa

Basic questions about customers and markets sel- customer-satisfying process, not a goods-producing

dom get asked.The latter occupya stepchildstatus. process,isvitalforallbusinesspeopletounderstand.

Theyarerecognizedasexisting,ashavingtobetaken An industrybeginswiththecustomer andhisorher

care of, but not worth very much real thought or needs,notwithapatent,arawmaterial,oraselling

dedicated attention. No oil company gets as excited skill.Giventhecustomer’sneeds,theindustrydevel-

aboutthecustomersinitsownbackyardasaboutthe opsbackwards,firstconcerningitselfwiththephysi-

oil in the Sahara Desert. Nothing illustrates better caldeliveryofcustomersatisfactions.Thenitmoves

the neglect of marketing than its treatment in the back further to creating the things by which these

industry press. satisfactionsareinpartachieved.Howthesemateri-

The centennial issue of the American Petroleum als are created is a matter of indifference to the

Institute Quarterly, published in 1959 to celebrate customer, hence the particular form of manufactur-

thediscoveryof oilin Titusville, Pennsylvania,con- ing, processing, or what-have-you cannot be consid-

tained 21 feature articles proclaiming the industry’s ered as a vital aspect of the industry. Finally, the

greatness.Onlyoneofthesetalkedaboutitsachieve- industry moves back still further to finding the raw

ments in marketing, and that was only a pictorial materialsnecessary for making its products.

recordofhowservicestationarchitecturehaschanged. Theironyofsomeindustriesorientedtowardtech-

The issue also contained a special section on “New nicalresearchanddevelopmentisthatthescientists

Horizons,” which was devoted to showing the mag- who occupy the high executive positions are totally

nificentroleoilwouldplayinAmerica’sfuture.Every unscientificwhenitcomes todefiningtheir compa-

reference wasebullientlyoptimistic,neverimplying nies’ overall needs and purposes. They violate the

once that oil might have some hard competition. firsttworulesofthescientificmethod—beingaware

Even the reference to atomic energy was a cheerful ofanddefiningtheircompanies’problems,andthen

catalogueofhowoilwouldhelpmakeatomicenergy developing testable hypotheses about solving them.

a success. There was not a single apprehension that Theyarescientificonlyabouttheconvenientthings,

the oilindustry’saffluencemight bethreatened ora such aslaboratoryand product experiments.

suggestion that one “new horizon” might include The customer (and the satisfaction of his or her

newandbetterwaysofservingoil’spresentcustomers. deepest needs) is not considered as being “the prob-

But the most revealing example of the stepchild lem”—notbecausethereisanycertainbeliefthatno

treatmentthatmarketinggetsisstillanotherspecial such problem exists, but because an organizational

seriesofshortarticleson“TheRevolutionaryPoten- lifetimehasconditioned managementto look in the

tial of Electronics.” Under that heading, this list of oppositedirection. Marketingis a stepchild.

articlesappeared in thetable of contents: I do not mean that selling is ignored. Far from it.

.

Butselling,again,isnotmarketing.Asalreadypointed

.

“In theSearchfor Oil” out, selling concernsitself with the tricks and tech-

“In Production Operations” niques of getting people to exchange their cash for

HARVARDBUSINESSREVIEW September–October1975 11

yourproduct.Itisnotconcernedwiththevaluesthat preceding examples and analysis. It would take an-

theexchangeisallabout.Anditdoesnot,asmarket- other article to show in detail what is required for

inginvariablydoes, view theentirebusinessprocess specific industries.In any case, it shouldbeobvious

asconsistingofatightlyintegratedefforttodiscover, that building an effective customer-oriented com-

create, arouse, and satisfy customer needs. The pany involves far more than good intentions or pro-

customer is somebody “out there” who, with motional tricks; it involves profound matters of hu-

propercunning,canbeseparatedfromhisorherloose manorganizationandleadership.Forthepresent,let

change. me merely suggest what appear to be some general

Actually, not even selling gets much attention in requirements.

sometechnologicallymindedfirms.Becausethereis Visceralfeelofgreatness.Obviouslythecompany

avirtuallyguaranteedmarketfortheabundantflow has to do what survival demands. It has to adapt to

of their new products, they do not actually know the requirements of the market, and it has to do it

whatarealmarketis.Itisasiftheylivedinaplanned sooner ratherthanlater.Butmeresurvival is a so-so