SOURCE: Marketing-Myopia.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Customer-Centric Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the concept of 'Marketing Myopia' and how businesses should focus on customer needs rather than their own products.
KEYWORDS: marketing myopia, customer orientation, product orientation, business strategy
---

[Document: Marketing-Myopia.pdf]

tegicobjecthasbeentocapitalizeonglasstechnology. observe the changes, all right, but devalue their sig-

Decidingtoconcentrateonmarkets,anothercom- nificance or underestimate their ability to nibble

pany has determined that “we want to help people away atthe company’s markets.

(primarilywomen)enhancetheirbeautyandsenseof Once dramatically alerted to the concept of seg-

youthfulness.” This company has expanded its line ments, sectors, and customers, though, managers of

ofcosmeticproducts,butithasalsoenteredthefields capital-intensive businesses have become more re-

of proprietary drugsand vitaminsupplements. sponsive to the necessityof balancingtheirinescap-

All these examples illustrate the “policy” results ablepreoccupationwith“payingthebills”orbreak-

of“MarketingMyopia.”Ontheoperatinglevel,there ingevenwiththefactthatthebestwaytoaccomplish

has been, I think, an extraordinary heightening of this may be topaymore attention to segments, sec-

sensitivity to customers and consumers. R&D de- tors, and customers.

partmentshavecultivatedagreater“external”orien- The second reason industrial-products companies

tation toward uses, users, and markets— balancing have probablybeen more influenced bythe articleis

therebythepreviouslyone-sided“internal”focuson that, in the case of the more technical industrial

materialsandmethods;uppermanagementhasreal- productsorservices,thenecessityofclearlycommu-

izedthatmarketingandsalesdepartmentsshouldbe nicating product and service characteristics to pros-

HARVARDBUSINESSREVIEW September–October1975 13

pects results in a lot of face-to-face “selling” effort. “MarketingMyopia”was notintended asanalysis

Butpreciselybecausetheproductis socomplex,the orevenprescription;itwasintendedasmanifesto.It

situation produces salespeople who know the prod- didnot pretendtotake a balanced position. Nor was

uctmorethantheyknowthecustomer,whoaremore it a new idea: Peter F. Drucker, J. B. McKitterick,

adept at explaining what they have and what it can Wroe Alderson, John Howard, and Neil Borden had

dothanlearningwhatthecustomer’sneedsandprob- each done more original and balanced work on “the

lemsare.Theresulthasbeenanarrowproductorien- marketingconcept.”Myscheme,however,tiedmar-

tationrather thanaliberatingcustomerorientation, keting more closely to the inner orbit of business

and “service” has often suffered. To be sure, sellers policy. Drucker—especially in The Concept of the

said, “We have to provide service,” but they tended Corporation and The Practice of Management—

to define service by looking into the mirror rather originallyprovidedmewitha greatdeal of insight.

thanoutthewindow.Theythoughttheywerelook- Mycontribution,therefore,appearsmerelytohave

ing out the window at the customer, but it was been asimple, brief,and useful wayofcommunicat-

actuallya mirror—a reflectionoftheir ownproduct- ing an existing way of thinking. I tried to do it in a

oriented biasesrather than areflec-tion oftheircus- very direct, but responsible, fashion, knowing that

tomers’situations. fewreaders(customers),especiallymanagersandlead-

ers, could stand much equivocation or hesitation. I

A Manifesto, Not a Prescription also knew that the colorful and lightly documented

Not everythinghas been rosy.A lot ofbizarre things affirmation works better than the tortuously rea-

havehappened as aresult of thisarticle: sonedexplanation.

.

But why the enormous popularity of what was

Some companies have developed what I call actually such a simple preexisting idea? Why its

“marketingmania”—they’vebecomeobsessively appealthroughout the worldtoresolutelyrestrained

responsive to every fleeting whim of the cus- scholars, implacably temperate managers, and high

tomer. Mass-production operations have been governmentofficials,allaccustomedtobalancedand

converted to approximations of job shops,with thoughtful calculation? Isit that concrete examples,

cost and price consequences far exceeding the joinedtoillustrateasimpleideaandpresentedwith

.

willingness of customerstobuytheproduct. someattentiontoliteracy,communicatebetterthan

Management has expanded product lines and massive analytical reasoning that reads as though it

addednew linesofbusiness withoutfirst estab- weretranslatedfromtheGerman?Isitthatprovoca-

lishing adequate control systems to run more tive assertions are more memorable and persuasive

.

complexoperations. thanrestrainedandbalancedexplanations,nomatter

Marketing staffs have suddenly and rapidly ex- who the audience? Is it that the character of the

panded themselves and their research budgets message is as much the message as its content? Or

withouteithergettingsufficientpriororganiza- was mine not simply a different tune but a new

tional support or, thereafter, producing suffi- symphony?Idon’tknow.

.

cientresults. Ofcourse,I’ddoitagainandinthesameway,given

Companiesthatarefunctionallyorganizedhave mypurposes,evenwithwhatmoreInowknow—the

converted to product-, brand-, or market-based good and the bad, the power of facts, and the limits

organizations with the expectation of instant ofrhetoric.Ifyourmissionisthemoon,youdon’tuse

and miraculous results. The outcome has been acar.DonMarquis’scockroach,Archy,providessome

ambiguity, frustration, confusion, corporate in- finalconsolation:“Anideaisnotresponsibleforwho

fighting, losses, and finally a reversion to func- believesinit.”

tionalarrangementsthathasonlyworsenedthe

.

situation. 1. Jacques Barzun, “Trains and the Mind of Man,” Holiday,

Companies have attempted to “serve” custom- February1960,p.21.

2. Formore detailsseeM. M.Zimmerman,The SuperMarket:

ersbycreatingcomplexandbeautifullyefficient

A Revolution in Distribution (New York: McGraw-Hill Book

products or services that buyers are either too

Company,Inc.,1955),p.48.

risk-aversetoadoptorincapableoflearninghow 3.Ibid.,pp.45–47.

toemploy—ineffect,therearenowsteamshov- 4.TheAffluent Society(Boston:HoughtonMifflinCompany,

els for people who haven’t yet learned to use 1958),pp.152–160.

5. HenryFord,My Life and Work(NewYork: Doubleday,Page

spades. This problem has happened repeatedly

&Company,1923),pp.146–147.

intheso-calledserviceindustries(financialserv-

6. Jacques Barzun, “Trains and the Mind of Man," Holiday,

ices, insurance, computer-based services) and February1960,p.20.

withAmericancompaniessellinginless-devel-

oped economies.

14 HARVARD BUSINESSREVIEW September–October1975