SOURCE: Marketing-Myopia.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Customer-Oriented Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of a customer-centric approach in building an effective business, involving organizational leadership and a visceral sense of greatness.
KEYWORDS: customer-oriented, organizational leadership, customer-creating value, business strategy, customer needs
---

[Document: Marketing-Myopia.pdf]

asconsistingofatightlyintegratedefforttodiscover, that building an effective customer-oriented com-

create, arouse, and satisfy customer needs. The pany involves far more than good intentions or pro-

customer is somebody “out there” who, with motional tricks; it involves profound matters of hu-

propercunning,canbeseparatedfromhisorherloose manorganizationandleadership.Forthepresent,let

change. me merely suggest what appear to be some general

Actually, not even selling gets much attention in requirements.

sometechnologicallymindedfirms.Becausethereis Visceralfeelofgreatness.Obviouslythecompany

avirtuallyguaranteedmarketfortheabundantflow has to do what survival demands. It has to adapt to

of their new products, they do not actually know the requirements of the market, and it has to do it

whatarealmarketis.Itisasiftheylivedinaplanned sooner ratherthanlater.Butmeresurvival is a so-so

economy, moving their products routinelyfrom fac- aspiration. Anybody can survive in some way or

tory to retail outlet. Their successful concentration other,eventheskid-rowbum.Thetrickistosurvive

onproductstendstoconvincethemofthesoundness gallantly, to feel the surging impulse of commercial

ofwhattheyhavebeendoing,andtheyfailtoseethe mastery; not just to experience the sweet smell of

gatheringcloudsover themarket. success, but to have the visceral feel of en-

trepreneurialgreatness.

No organization can achieve greatness without a

CONCLUSION vigorousleader whoisdrivenonwardbyapulsating

will to succeed. A leader has to have a vision of

Lessthan75yearsago,Americanrailroadsenjoyeda grandeur,avisionthatcanproduceeagerfollowersin

fierce loyaltyamongastute WallStreeters.European vast numbers.Inbusiness, thefollowersarethe cus-

monarchs invested in them heavily. Eternal wealth tomers.

was thought to be the benediction for anybody who In order to produce these customers, the entire

could scrape a few thousand dollars together to put corporation must be viewed as a customer-creating

into rail stocks. No other form of transportation and customer-satisfying organism. Management

couldcompetewiththerailroadsinspeed,flexibility, mustthinkofitselfnotasproducingproductsbutas

durability,economy,and growthpotentials. providing customer-creating value satisfactions. It

As Jacques Barzun put it, “By the turn of the must push this idea (and everything it means and

century it was an institution, an image of man, a requires)intoeverynookandcrannyoftheorganiza-

tradition,acodeofhonor,asourceofpoetry,anursery tion.Ithastodothiscontinuouslyandwiththekind

ofboyhooddesires,asublimestoftoys,andthemost of flair that excites and stimulates the people in it.

solemn machine—next to the funeral hearse—that Otherwise, the company will be merely a series of

marks theepochs in man’s life.”6 pigeonholed parts, with no consolidating sense of

Even after the advent of automobiles, trucks, and purposeor direction.

airplanes, the railroad tycoons remained imper- In short, the organization must learn to think of

turbably self-confident. If you had told them 60 itselfnotasproducinggoodsorservicesbutasbuying

years before that in 30 years they would be flat on customers,asdoingthethingsthatwillmakepeople

theirbacks,broke,andpleadingforgovernmentsub- wantto dobusinesswith it. And thechiefexecutive

sidies, they would have thought you totally de- has the inescapable responsibility for creating this

mented. Such a future was simply not considered environment,thisviewpoint,thisattitude,thisaspi-

possible.Itwasnotevenadiscussablesubject,oran ration. The chief executive must set the company’s

askablequestion, or amatterwhich anysane person style,itsdirection,anditsgoals.Thismeansknowing

would consider worth speculating about. The very preciselywhereheorshewantstogoandmakingsure

thought was insane.Yet a lot of insanenotionsnow the whole organization is enthusiastically aware of

have matter-of-fact acceptance—for example, the where that is. This is a first requisite of leadership,

idea of 100-ton tubes of metal moving smoothly forunlessaleaderknowswhereheisgoing,anyroad

through the air 20,000 feet above the earth, loaded willtakehimthere.

with 100 sane and solid citizens casually drinking If any road is okay, the chief executive might

martinis—and they have dealt cruel blows to the as well pack his attaché case and go fishing. If an

railroads. organizationdoesnotknoworcarewhereitisgoing,

Whatspecificallymustothercompaniesdotoavoid itdoesnotneedtoadvertisethatfactwithaceremo-

this fate? What does customer orientation involve? nial figurehead. Everybody will notice it soon

These questions have in part been answered by the enough.

12 HARVARD BUSINESSREVIEW September–October1975

RETROSPECTIVE COMMENTARY somewhat more willingly accommodated than be-

fore; finance departments have become more recep-

Amazed,finally,byhisliterarysuccess,IsaacBashevis tivetothelegitimacyofbudgetsformarketresearch

Singerreconciledanattendantproblem:“Ithinkthe and experimentation in marketing; and salespeople

momentyouhavepublishedabook,it’snotanymore have been better trained to listen to and understand

your private property. . . . If it has value, everybody customer needs and problems rather than merely to

canfindinitwhathefinds,andIcannottellthemanI “push”theproduct.

did not intend it to be so.” Over the past 15 years,

A Mirror, Not a Window

“Marketing Myopia” has become a case in point.

Remarkably,thearticle spawned alegion of loyal par- My impression is that the article has had more im-

tisans—nottomentionahostofunlikelybedfellows. pact in industrial-products companies than in con-

Its most common and, I believe, most influential sumer-productscompanies—perhapsbecausethefor-

consequence is the way certain companies for the merhadlaggedmostincustomerorientation.Thereare

first time gave serious thought to the question of at least two reasons for this lag: (1) industrial-prod-

whatbusinesses they arereally in. uctscompaniestendtobemorecapitalintensive,and

The strategic consequences of this have in many (2)inthepast,atleast,they havehad to rely heavily

casesbeendramatic.Thebest-knowncase,ofcourse, oncommu-nicatingface-to-facethetechnicalcharac-

is theshift in thinking ofoneselfas beingin the “oil ter of what they made and sold. These points are

business”tobeinginthe“energybusiness.”Insome worthexplaining.

instances the payoff has been spectacular (getting Capital-intensive businesses are understandably

into coal, for example) and in others dreadful (in preoccupied with magnitudes, especially where the

termsofthetimeandmoneyspentsofaronfuelcell capital, once invested, cannot be easily moved, ma-

research). Another successfulexample isa company nipulated,ormodifiedfortheproductionofavariety

withalargechainofretailshoestoresthatredefined of products—e.g., chemical plants, steel mills, air-

itself as a retailer of moderately priced, frequently lines, and railroads. Understandably, they seek big

purchased,widelyassortedconsumerspecialtyprod- volumes and operating efficiencies to pay off the

ucts. The result was a dramatic growth in volume, equipmentand meetthecarrying costs.

earnings,and return on assets. At least one problem results: corporate power be-

Some companies, again for the first time, asked comes disproportionately lodged with operating or

themselves whether they wished to be masters of financialexecutives.Ifyoureadthecharterofoneof

certaintechnologiesforwhichtheywouldseekmar- thenation’slargestcompanies,youwillseethatthe

kets,ormastersofmarketsforwhichtheywouldseek chairman of the finance committee, not the chief

customer-satisfyingproducts and services. executiveofficer,isthe“chief.”Executiveswithsuch

Choosingtheformer,onecompanyhasdeclared,in backgroundshaveanalmosttrainedincapacitytosee

effect,“Weareexpertsinglasstechnology.Weintend that getting “volume” may require understanding

toimproveandexpandthatexpertisewiththeobject andservingmanydiscreteandsometimessmallmar-

of creating products that will attract customers.” ketsegmentsratherthangoingafteraperhapsmythi-

This decision has forced the company into a much cal batchof big or homogeneouscustomers.

moresystematicandcustomer-sensitivelookatpos- These executives also often fail to appreciate the

sible marketsand users,even though its stated stra- competitive changes going on around them. They

tegicobjecthasbeentocapitalizeonglasstechnology. observe the changes, all right, but devalue their sig-

Decidingtoconcentrateonmarkets,anothercom- nificance or underestimate their ability to nibble

pany has determined that “we want to help people away atthe company’s markets.

(primarilywomen)enhancetheirbeautyandsenseof Once dramatically alerted to the concept of seg-

youthfulness.” This company has expanded its line ments, sectors, and customers, though, managers of

ofcosmeticproducts,butithasalsoenteredthefields capital-intensive businesses have become more re-

of proprietary drugsand vitaminsupplements. sponsive to the necessityof balancingtheirinescap-

All these examples illustrate the “policy” results ablepreoccupationwith“payingthebills”orbreak-

of“MarketingMyopia.”Ontheoperatinglevel,there ingevenwiththefactthatthebestwaytoaccomplish

has been, I think, an extraordinary heightening of this may be topaymore attention to segments, sec-