SOURCE: Marketing-Myopia.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Mass Production and Marketing
SUMMARY: The text discusses how mass production can lead to a focus on production over marketing, neglecting customer needs.
KEYWORDS: mass production, marketing, customer orientation, product-orientation, selling
---

[Document: Marketing-Myopia.pdf]

figures—justastherailroadshave,asthebuggywhip Here mass production is most famous, most hon-

manufacturers have, as the corner grocery chains ored, and hasthe greatest impact onthe entire soci-

have,as most ofthe bigmoviecompanieshave,and ety.Theindustryhashitcheditsfortunetotherelent-

indeed asmanyother industrieshave. less requirements of the annual model change, a

The best way for a firm to belucky isto make its policythatmakescustomerorientationanespecially

ownluck.Thatrequiresknowingwhatmakesabusi- urgentnecessity.Consequently,theautocompanies

ness successful. One of the greatest enemies of this annually spend millions of dollars on consumer re-

knowledgeis massproduction. search. But the fact that the new compact cars are

selling so well in their first year indicates that De-

troit’s vast researches have for a long time failed to

PRODUCTION PRESSURES revealwhatcustomersreallywanted.Detroitwasnot

persuaded that people wanted anything different

Mass-production industries are impelled by a great fromwhattheyhadbeengettinguntilitlostmillions

drivetoproducealltheycan.Theprospectofsteeply ofcustomers to othersmall-carmanufacturers.

decliningunitcostsasoutputrisesismorethanmost How could this unbelievablelag behindconsumer

companiescanusuallyresist.Theprofitpossibilities wants have been perpetuated so long? Why did not

look spectacular. All effort focuses on production. researchrevealconsumerpreferencesbeforeconsum-

Theresultis thatmarketinggets neglected. ers’ buying decisions themselves revealed the facts?

John Kenneth Galbraith contends that just the Isthatnotwhatconsumerresearchisfor—tofindout

opposite occurs.4 Output is so prodigious that all beforethefact whatisgoingtohappen?Theanswer

effortconcentrateson tryingto getrid ofit.Hesays is that Detroit never really researched customers’

thisaccountsforsingingcommercials,desecrationof wants. It only researched their preferences between

the countryside with advertising signs, and other the kinds of things which it had already decided to

wasteful and vulgarpractices.Galbraith hasafinger offer them. For Detroit is mainly product-oriented,

on something real,buthemissesthestrategic point. not customer-oriented. To the extent that the cus-

Massproductiondoesindeedgenerategreatpressure tomer is recognized as having needs that the manu-

to“move”theproduct.Butwhatusuallygetsempha- facturer shouldtrytosatisfy,Detroitusuallyactsas

sized is selling, not marketing. Marketing, being a if the job can be done entirely by product changes.

moresophisticatedandcomplexprocess,getsignored. Occasionallyattentiongetspaidtofinancing,too,but

The difference between marketing and selling is that is done more in order to sell than to enable the

more than semantic. Sellingfocusesonthe needs of customerto buy.

theseller,marketing on theneedsofthebuyer. Sell- Asfortakingcareofothercustomerneeds,thereis

ing is preoccupied with the seller’s need to convert not enough being done to write about. The areas of

the product into cash, marketing with the idea of thegreatestunsatisfiedneedsareignored or,atbest,

satisfyingthe needsofthe customerbymeansofthe getstepchildattention.Theseareatthepointofsale

product and the whole cluster of things associated and on the matter of automotive repair and mainte-

withcreating,delivering,and finally consumingit. nance. Detroit viewstheseproblemareasasbeingof

In some industries the enticements of full mass secondary importance. That is underscored by the

productionhavebeensopowerfulthatformanyyears fact that the retailing and servicing ends of this in-

top management in effect has told the sales depart- dustryareneitherownedandoperatednorcontrolled

ments,“Yougetridof it;we’llworry aboutprofits.” bythemanufacturers.Oncethecarisproduced,things

HARVARDBUSINESSREVIEW September–October1975 7

are pretty much in the dealer’s inadequate hands. that method may be scientific in the narrow

Illustrative of Detroit’s arms-length attitude is the sense, it is not scientific in the broad sense,

fact that, while servicing holds enormous sales- because what earthly use is it to know the cost

stimulating,profit-buildingopportunities,only57of if it tells you that you cannot manufacture at a

Chevrolet’s7,000dealersprovidenightmaintenance priceatwhichthearticlecanbesold?Butmore

service. to the point is the fact that, although one may

Motorists repeatedly express their dissatisfaction calculate what a cost is,and ofcourse all ofour

withservicingandtheirapprehensionsaboutbuying costsarecarefullycalculated,nooneknowswhat

cars under the present selling setup. The anxieties acostoughttobe.Oneofthewaysofdiscovering

andproblemstheyencounterduringtheautobuying ...istonameapricesolowastoforceeverybody

and maintenance processes are probably more in- intheplacetothehighestpointofefficiency.The

tenseandwidespreadtodaythanmanyyearsago.Yet low price makes everybody dig for profits. We

theautomobilecompaniesdonotseemtolistentoor make more discoveries concerningmanufactur-

to take their cues from the anguished consumer. If ingandsellingunderthisforcedmethodthanby

they do listen, it must be through the filter of their any methodof leisurely investigation.5”

ownpreoccupation withproduction.Themarketing

effort is still viewed as a necessary consequence of Productprovincialism.Thetantalizingprofitpos-

the product—not vice versa, as it should be. That is sibilities of low unit production costs may be the

thelegacyofmassproduction,withitsparochialview mostseriouslyself-deceivingattitudethatcanafflict

thatprofitresidesessentiallyinlow-costfullproduc- a company, particularly a “growth” company where

tion. an apparently assured expansion of demand already

WhatFordputfirst.Theprofitlureofmassproduc- tends to undermine a proper concern for the impor-

tionobviouslyhasaplaceintheplansandstrategyof tanceof marketingand thecustomer.

business management, but it must always follow Theusualresultofthisnarrowpreoccupationwith

hard thinking aboutthe customer. Thisisoneofthe so-calledconcretemattersisthatinsteadofgrowing,

most important lessons that we can learn from the theindustrydeclines.Itusuallymeansthattheprod-

contradictorybehaviorofHenryFord.InasenseFord uctfailstoadapttotheconstantlychangingpatterns

was both the most brilliant and the most senseless of consumer needs and tastes, to new and modified

marketer in American history. He was senselessbe- marketing institutions and practices, or to product

causeherefusedtogivethecustomeranythingbuta developments in competing or complementary in-

black car. He was brilliant because he fashioned a dustries. The industry has its eyes so firmly on its

production system designed tofit market needs.We own specific product that it does not see how it is

habitually celebrate him for the wrong reason, his being madeobsolete.

production genius. His real genius was marketing. The classic example of this is the buggy whip

We think he was able to cut his selling price and industry.No amountof product improvementcould

thereforesellmillionsof$500carsbecausehisinven- stave off its death sentence. But had the industry

tion of the assembly line had reduced the costs. defined itselfasbeinginthetransportation business

Actually he invented the assembly line because he rather than the buggy whip business, it might have

had concludedthat at $500he couldsellmillionsof survived. It would have done what survival always

cars. Mass production was the result, not the cause, entails,thatis,change.Evenifithadonlydefinedits

of his low prices. business as providing a stimulant or catalyst to an

Fordrepeatedlyemphasizedthispoint,butanation energysource,itmighthavesurvivedbybecominga

of production-oriented businessmanagers refuses to manufacturer of, say, fanbelts orair cleaners.

hear thegreatlessonhetaught.Hereishisoperating Whatmaysomedaybeastillmoreclassicexample

philosophyas heexpresseditsuccinctly: is, again, the oil industry. Having let others steal

marvelousopportunitiesfromit(e.g.,naturalgas,as

“Our policy is to reduce the price, extend the already mentioned, missile fuels, and jet engine lu-

operations, and improve the article. You will bricants), one would expect it to have taken steps

noticethatthereductionofpricecomesfirst.We nevertoletthathappenagain.Butthisisnotthecase.

havenever consideredanycostsas fixed.There- Wearenowseeingextraordinarynewdevelopments

forewefirstreducethepricetothepoint where in fuel systems specifically designed to power auto-

we believe more sales will result. Then we go mobiles. Not only are these developments concen-

ahead and try to make the prices. We do not trated in firms outside the petroleum industry, but

botheraboutthecosts.Thenewpriceforcesthe petroleum is almost systematically ignoring them,

costs down. The more usual way is to take the securely content in its wedded bliss to oil. It is the

costsandthendeterminetheprice;andalthough story of the kerosene lamp versus the incandescent

8 HARVARD BUSINESSREVIEW September–October1975

lamp all over again. Oil is trying to improve hydro- companiesactivelyworkingonitindicateabeliefin

carbonfuelsratherthandevelopanyfuelsbestsuited ultimatesuccess...thetimingandmagnitudeofits