SOURCE: Marketing-Myopia.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Marketing Strategy
SUMMARY: The article discusses how companies can ensure continued growth by defining their industries broadly and focusing on customer needs rather than just their own products.
KEYWORDS: marketing myopia, customer-orientation, product-orientation, growth strategy, industry definition
---

[Document: Marketing-Myopia.pdf]

Marketing Myopia

by Theodore Levitt

Harvard Business Review

Reprint 75507

HBR

SEPTEMBER–OCTOBER 1975

Marketing Myopia

by Theodore Levitt

E

verymajorindustrywasonceagrowthindus- because of their own myopia. As with the rail-

try. But some that are now riding a wave of roads, Hollywood defined its business incor-

growth enthusiasm are very much in the rectly. It thought it was in the movie business

shadow of decline. Others which are thought of as whenitwasactuallyintheentertainmentbusi-

seasoned growth industries have actually stopped ness.“Movies”impliedaspecific,limitedprod-

growing. In every case the reason growth is threat- uct.Thisproducedafatuouscontentmentwhich

ened,slowed,orstoppedisnotbecausethemarketis

saturated. It is because there has been a failure of

Howcanacompanyensureitscontinuedgrowth?In1960,

management.

“MarketingMyopia”answeredthatquestioninanewand

Fateful purposes. The failure is at the top. The

challenging way by urging organizations to define their

executivesresponsiblefor it,inthelastanalysis, are industriesbroadlytotakeadvantageofgrowthopportuni-

thosewho deal with broad aimsand policies. Thus: ties. Using the archetype of the railroads, Mr. Levitt

.

showed how they declined inevitably as technology ad-

vancedbecausetheydefinedthemselvestoonarrowly.To

The railroads did not stop growing because the

continue growing, companies must ascertain and act on

need for passenger and freight transportation

their customers’ needs and desires, not bank on the pre-

declined.Thatgrew.Therailroadsareintrouble

sumptive longevity of their products. The success of the

today notbecausethe needwasfilledbyothers

articletestifiestothevalidityofitsmessage.Ithasbeen

(cars,trucks,airplanes,eventelephones)butbe-

widely quotedandanthologized,andHBRhassoldmore

cause it was not filled by the railroads them- than 265,000 reprints of it. The author of 14 subsequent

selves. They let others take customers away articlesinHBR,Mr.Levittisoneofthemagazine’smost

fromthembecausetheyassumedthemselvesto prolific contributors. In a retrospective commentary, he

be in the railroad business rather than in the considers the use and misuse that have been made of

transportation business. The reason they de- “Marketing Myopia,” describing itsmanyinterpretations

fined their industry incorrectly was that they andhypothesizingaboutitssuccess.

wererailroad-orientedinsteadoftransportation-

At the time of the article’s publication, Theodore Levitt

oriented; they were product-oriented instead of

. was lecturer in business administration at the Harvard

customer-oriented.

Business School. Now a full professor there, he is the

Hollywoodbarelyescapedbeingtotallyravished

author of six books, including The Third Sector: New

by television. Actually, all the established film

Tactics fora ResponsiveSociety(1973)andMarketingfor

companies went through drastic reorganiza- BusinessGrowth(1974).His mostrecentarticleforHBR

tions.Somesimplydisappeared.Allofthemgot was“DinosaursamongtheBearsandBulls”(January-Feb-

into trouble not because of TV’s inroads but ruary1975).

Copyright©1975bythePresidentandFellowsofHarvardCollege.Allrightsreserved.

fromthebeginningled producerstoviewTV as andmovies?ThisviewcommitspreciselytheerrorI

a threat. Hollywood scorned and rejected TV have been talking about. It defines an industry, or a

whenitshouldhavewelcomeditasanopportu- product, or a cluster of know-how so narrowly as to

nity—an opportunity to expand the entertain- guarantee its premature senescence. When we men-

mentbusiness. tion “railroads,” we should make sure we mean

“transportation.” As transporters, the railroads still

TodayTVisabiggerbusinessthantheoldnarrowly

have a good chance for very considerable growth.

defined movie business ever was. Had Hollywood

Theyarenotlimitedtotherailroadbusinessassuch

been customer-oriented (providing entertainment)

(though in my opinion rail transportation is poten-

ratherthanproduct-oriented(makingmovies),would

tially a much stronger transportation medium than

ithavegone throughthefiscal purgatory thatitdid?

is generally believed).

I doubt it. What ultimately saved Hollywood and

What the railroads lack is not opportunity but

accounted for its resurgence was the wave of new

someofthemanagerialimaginativenessandaudacity

young writers, producers, and directors whose pre-

thatmadethemgreat.EvenanamateurlikeJacques

vious successes in television had decimated the old

Barzuncan seewhatis lackingwhen hesays:

moviecompaniesandtoppledthebigmoviemoguls.

Thereareotherlessobviousexamplesofindustries “I grieve to see the most advanced physicaland

thathavebeenandarenowendangeringtheirfutures social organization of the last century go down

byimproperlydefiningtheirpurposes.Ishalldiscuss in shabby disgrace for lack of the samecompre-

some in detail later and analyze the kind of policies hensive imagination that built it up. [What is

that lead to trouble. Right now it may help to show lacking is] the will of the companies to survive

what a thoroughly customer-oriented management and to satisfy the public by inventiveness and

candotokeepagrowthindustrygrowing,evenafter skill.1”

the obvious opportunities have been exhausted; and

here there are two examples that have been around

for a long time. They are nylon and glass—specifi-

SHADOW OF OBSOLESCENCE

cally, E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Company and

CorningGlass Works.

It is impossible to mention a single major industry

Bothcompanieshavegreat technicalcompetence.

thatdidnotatonetime qualifyforthe magic appel-

Their product orientation is unquestioned. But this

lationof“growthindustry.”Ineachcaseitsassumed

alone does not explain their success. After all, who

strength lay in the apparently unchallenged supe-

was more pridefully product-oriented and product-

riority of its product. There appeared to be no effec-

conscious than the erstwhile New England textile

tive substitute for it. It was itself a runaway substi-

companiesthathave beensothoroughly massacred?

tutefortheproductitsotriumphantlyreplaced.Yet

The DuPonts and the Cornings have succeeded not

one after another of these celebrated industries has

primarilybecauseoftheirproductorresearchorien-

come under a shadow. Let us look briefly at a few

tation but because they have been thoroughly cus-

more of them, this time taking examples that have

tomer-oriented also. It is constant watchfulness for

sofarreceived alittle less attention:

opportunities to apply their technical know-how to

Dry cleaning. This was once a growth industry

the creation of customer-satisfying uses which ac-

with lavish prospects. In an age of wool garments,

countsfor theirprodigiousoutputofsuccessfulnew

imagine being finally able to get them safely and

products. Without a very sophisticated eye on the

easilyclean.The boom wason.

customer, most of their new products might have

Yethereweare30yearsaftertheboomstarted,and

beenwrong,their salesmethods useless.

theindustryisintrouble.Wherehasthecompetition

Aluminum has also continued to be a growth in-

comefrom?Fromabetterwayofcleaning?No.Ithas

dustry, thanks to the effortsof two wartime-created

come from synthetic fibers and chemical additives

companieswhichdeliberatelysetaboutcreatingnew

that have cut the need for dry cleaning. But this is

customer-satisfyinguses.WithoutKaiserAluminum

only the beginning. Lurking in the wings and ready

&ChemicalCorporationandReynoldsMetalsCom-

tomakechemicaldrycleaningtotallyobsolescentis

pany,thetotaldemandforaluminumtodaywouldbe

thatpowerfulmagician,ultrasonics.

vastly less.

Electric utilities. Thisis anotherone ofthosesup-

Errorofanalysis.Somemayarguethatitisfoolish

posedly “no-substitute” products that has been en-

tosettherailroadsoffagainstaluminumorthemov-

thronedonapedestalofinvinciblegrowth.Whenthe

ies off against glass. Are not aluminum and glass

incandescentlampcame along,kerosenelightswere

naturallysoversatilethattheindustriesareboundto

finished.Laterthewaterwheelandthesteamengine

have more growth opportunities than the railroads

were cut to ribbons by the flexibility, reliability,

HARVARDBUSINESSREVIEW September–October1975 3

simplicity,and justplain easy availabilityofelectric ness. This meant the wholesale destruction of their

motors.Theprosperityofelectricutilitiescontinues huge investments in corner store sites and in estab-

to wax extravagant as the home is converted into a lisheddistributionandmerchandisingmethods.The

museumofelectricgadgetry.Howcananybodymiss companies with “the courage of their convictions”

byinvesting in utilities,withnocompetition, noth- resolutelystucktothecornerstorephilosophy.They

ingbut growthahead? kept theirpride but lost theirshirts.

But a second look is not quite so comforting. A Self-deceiving cycle. But memories are short. For

score of nonutility companies are well advanced to- example,itishardforpeoplewhotodayconfidently

warddevelopingapowerfulchemicalfuelcellwhich hail the twin messiahs of electronics and chemicals