SOURCE: Marketing-Myopia.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2019
TOPIC: Industry Disruption
SUMMARY: This text discusses how industries can be disrupted by new technologies and changing consumer preferences, leading to the obsolescence of existing business models.
KEYWORDS: industry disruption, technological innovation, business model obsolescence, consumer trends, market competition
---

[Document: Marketing-Myopia.pdf]

were cut to ribbons by the flexibility, reliability,

HARVARDBUSINESSREVIEW September–October1975 3

simplicity,and justplain easy availabilityofelectric ness. This meant the wholesale destruction of their

motors.Theprosperityofelectricutilitiescontinues huge investments in corner store sites and in estab-

to wax extravagant as the home is converted into a lisheddistributionandmerchandisingmethods.The

museumofelectricgadgetry.Howcananybodymiss companies with “the courage of their convictions”

byinvesting in utilities,withnocompetition, noth- resolutelystucktothecornerstorephilosophy.They

ingbut growthahead? kept theirpride but lost theirshirts.

But a second look is not quite so comforting. A Self-deceiving cycle. But memories are short. For

score of nonutility companies are well advanced to- example,itishardforpeoplewhotodayconfidently

warddevelopingapowerfulchemicalfuelcellwhich hail the twin messiahs of electronics and chemicals

couldsitinsomehiddenclosetofeveryhomesilently toseehowthingscouldpossiblygowrongwiththese

ticking off electric power. The electric lines that galloping industries. They probably also cannot see

vulgarizesomanyneighborhoodswillbeeliminated. howareasonablysensiblebusinesspersoncouldhave

Sowilltheendlessdemolitionofstreetsandservice beenasmyopicasthefamousBostonmillionairewho

interruptions during storms. Also on the horizon is early in the twentieth century unintentionally sen-

solarenergy,againpioneeredbynonutilitycompanies. tenced his heirs to poverty by stipulating that his

Who says that the utilities have no competition? entire estate be forever invested exclusively in elec-

Theymaybenaturalmonopoliesnow,buttomorrow tricstreetcarsecurities.Hisposthumousdeclaration,

they may be natural deaths. To avoid this prospect, “There will always be a big demand for efficient

they toowillhave todevelopfuelcells,solarenergy, urban transportation,”isnoconsolationtohisheirs

andotherpowersources.Tosurvive,theythemselves who sustain life by pumping gasoline at automobile

will have to plot the obsolescence of what now pro- fillingstations.

ducestheir livelihood. Yet, in a casual survey I took among a group of

Grocerystores.Manypeoplefindithardtorealize intelligent business executives, nearly half agreed

that there ever was a thriving establishmentknown thatitwouldbehardtohurttheirheirsbytyingtheir

asthe“cornergrocerystore.”Thesupermarkettook estates forever to the electronics industry. When I

over with a powerful effectiveness. Yet the big food then confronted them with the Boston streetcar ex-

chains of the 1930s narrowly escaped being com- ample, they chorused unanimously, “That’s differ-

pletely wiped out by the aggressive expansion of ent!” Butis it? Is not thebasic situation identical?

independent supermarkets. The first genuine super- Intruth,thereisno suchthing as a growthindus-

marketwas openedin1930,inJamaica, LongIsland. try,Ibelieve.Thereareonlycompaniesorganizedand

By 1933 supermarkets were thriving in California, operated to createandcapitalize ongrowth opportu-

Ohio, Pennsylvania, and elsewhere. Yet the estab- nities.Industriesthatassumethemselvestoberiding

lished chains pompously ignored them. When they someautomaticgrowthescalatorinvariablydescend

chose to notice them, it was with such derisive de- intostagnation.Thehistoryofevery deadanddying

scriptionsas“cheapy,”“horse-and-buggy,”“cracker- “growth” industry shows a self-deceiving cycle of

barrel storekeeping,”and “unethicalopportunists.” bountifulexpansionandundetecteddecay.Thereare

The executive of one big chain announced at the four conditionswhichusually guaranteethis cycle:

timethathefoundit“hardtobelievethatpeoplewill

1.Thebeliefthatgrowthisassuredbyanexpanding

drive for miles to shop for foods and sacrifice the

and moreaffluent population.

personal service chainshave perfectedand towhich

2.Thebeliefthatthereisnocompetitivesubstitute

[theconsumer]isaccustomed.”2Aslateas1936, the

for theindustry’s major product.

NationalWholesaleGrocersconventionandtheNew

3. Too much faith in mass production and in the

Jersey Retail Grocers Association said there was

advantages of rapidly declining unit costs as

nothing to fear. They said that the supers’ narrow

output rises.

appeal to the price buyer limited the size of their

4.Preoccupationwithaproductthatlendsitselfto

market.Theyhad to draw frommilesaround.When

carefully controlledscientific experimentation,

imitators came, there would be wholesale liquida-

improvement,andmanufacturingcostreduction.

tionsasvolumefell.Thehighsalesofthesuperswere

saidtobepartlyduetotheirnovelty.Basicallypeople Ishouldlike nowto examine each ofthese condi-

wanted convenient neighborhood grocers. If the tions in some detail. To build my case as boldly as

neighborhood stores would “cooperate with their possible,Ishallillustratethepointswithreferenceto

suppliers, pay attention to their costs, and improve three industries—petroleum, automobiles, and elec-

their service,” they would be able to weather the tronics—particularlypetroleum,becauseitspansmore

competitionuntil itblew over.3 yearsand morevicissitudes.Notonlydothesethree

It never blew over. The chains discovered that have excellent reputations with the general public

survival required going into the supermarket busi- andalsoenjoy the confidenceofsophisticatedinves-

4 HARVARD BUSINESSREVIEW September–October1975

tors,buttheirmanagementshavebecomeknownfor standingtocreateademandforitsproduct.Noteven

progressive thinking in areas like financial control, in product improvement has it showered itself with

productresearch,andmanagementtraining.Ifobso- eminence. The greatest single improvement—

lescence can cripple even these industries, it can namely, the development of tetraethyl lead—came

happenanywhere. fromoutsidetheindus-try,specificallyfromGeneral

Motors and DuPont. The big contributions made by

the industry itself are confined to the technology of

POPULATION MYTH oilexploration, production, and refining.

Asking for trouble. In other words, the industry’s

The belief that profits are assured by an expanding efforts have focused on improving the efficiency of

and more affluent population is dear to the heart of gettingandmakingitsproduct,notreallyonimprov-

everyindustry.Ittakestheedgeofftheapprehensions ing the generic product or its marketing. Moreover,

everybody understandably feels about the future. If itschiefproducthascontinuouslybeendefinedinthe

consumers are multiplying and also buying more of narrowest possible terms, namely, gasoline, not en-

yourproductorservice,youcanfacethefuturewith ergy,fuel,ortransportation.Thisattitudehashelped

considerably more comfort than if the market is ass.ure that:

shrinking.Anexpandingmarketkeepsthemanufac-

Major improvements in gasoline quality tend

turerfromhavingtothinkveryhardorimaginatively.

not to originate in the oil industry. Also, the

If thinking is an intellectual response to a problem,

developmentofsuperioralternativefuelscomes

thentheabsenceofaproblemleadstotheabsenceof

from outside the oil industry, as will be shown

thinking. If your product has an automatically ex- .

later.

pandingmarket,thenyouwillnotgivemuchthought

Majorinnovationsinautomobilefuelmarketing

to howto expand it.

are originated by small new oil companies that

One of the most interesting examples of this is

are not primarily preoccupied with production

provided by the petroleum industry. Probably our

or refining. These are the companies that have

oldest growth industry, it has an enviable record.

beenresponsiblefortherapidlyexpandingmul-

Whiletherearesomecurrentapprehensionsaboutits

tipump gasoline stations, with their successful

growthrate,theindustryitselftendstobeoptimistic.

emphasis on large and clean layouts, rapid and

But I believe it can be demonstrated that it is

efficient driveway service, and quality gasoline

undergoingafundamentalyettypicalchange.Itisnot

at low prices.

only ceasing to be a growth industry, but may actu-

ally be a declining one, relative to other business. Thus, the oil industry is asking for trouble from

Although thereiswidespreadunawarenessofit,itis outsiders. Sooner or later, in this land of hungry

conceivable that in time the oil industry may find investorsandentrepreneurs,athreatissuretocome.

itself in much the same position of retrospective The possibilities of this will become more apparent

glory that the railroads are now in. Despite its pio- when we turn to the next dangerous belief of many

neeringworkindevelopingandapplyingthepresent- managements. For the sake of continuity, because

valuemethodofinvestmentevaluation,inemployee this second belief is tied closely to the first, I shall

relations, and in working with backward countries, continue withthesameexample.

the petroleum business is a distressing example of Idea of Indispensability. The petroleum industry

how complacency and wrongheadedness can stub- isprettymuchpersuadedthatthereisnocompetitive

bornly convert opportunityintoneardisaster. substituteforitsmajorproduct,gasoline—orifthere

One of the characteristics ofthisand other indus- is,thatitwillcontinuetobeaderivativeofcrudeoil,

triesthathavebelievedverystronglyinthebeneficial such asdieselfuelor kerosenejetfuel.

consequences of an expanding population, while at Thereisalotofautomaticwishfulthinkinginthis

thesametimebeingindustrieswithagenericproduct assumption. The trouble is that most refining com-