SOURCE: Marshall Goldsmith BBRC University Presentation (14-Jul-21).docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Personal Development
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of setting personal goals, finding meaning, and building positive relationships to achieve fulfillment and engagement.
KEYWORDS: personal goals, employee engagement, feedback, self-improvement, life advice
---

[Document: Marshall Goldsmith BBRC University Presentation (14-Jul-21).docx]

You need to come up with your own questions, which should be personal to you. Six suggested questions:

Did I do my best to set clear goals?

Did I do my best to make progress towards goal achievement?

Did I do my best to be happy? (The average score on this question is 5.5.)

Did I do my best to find meaning?

Did I do my best to build positive relationships?

Did I do my best to be fully engaged? (The key to employee engagement, far more than the company, is you.)

Active questions vs. passive questions: active questions focus on what you can do to make a positive difference for yourself and the world (e.g. “Did I do my best to …?”), whereas passive questions focus on what the world needs to do to make a positive difference for you.

The daily question process is hard to maintain. Half of the people who begin quit within two weeks.

Marshall’s “best coaching advice in the whole world”:

“Imagine you’re 95 years old and getting ready to die. Right before you take your last breath, you have the ability to go back to you as you are today and give them advice. What advice would older you have for younger you right now?”

Marshall’s life advice:

1. Be happy now – not next week, next month, now. Not I’ll be happy “when”.

2. Friends and family – never get so busy you forget the people you love.

3. If you have a dream, go for it – if you don’t do it when you’re 35, you won’t do it when you’re 85. (Even little dreams e.g. go to New Zealand, learn to speak Spanish.)

“Life is too short, have fun.”

“Do what you can to help people.”

“As older people, we don’t regret the risks we took, just the risks we didn’t take.”

Q&A

Do you have any tips for how to give feedback?

See Marshall’s article “6 Questions for Better Coaching”.

With each of your direct reports, have a conversation where you ask the following six questions:

1. Where are we going? Where do you think we should be going?

2. Where are you going?

3. What is going well? (In response, tell them what you see them doing well.)

4. What are key suggestions for improvement? If you were the coach for you, what ideas or suggestions would you have for you?

5. How can I help?

6. Here’s how I am trying to improve. What suggestions do you have for me?

The key to making this process work is mutual responsibility. Tell your direct report, “Every couple of months I’m going to cover these questions with you. If you have questions in between, I want you to take the responsibility to talk to me.”

How often should you follow up on feedforward?

Research on follow-up suggests that frequency is more important than duration.

If there are feedforward suggestions that you don’t want to adopt, how do you communicate this?

“In truth, no one thinks you’re actually going to change anything. If you do anything vaguely good, they’ll think it’s been a useful process.”

How you set up the feedforward process? Do you bring it up out of nowhere?

Don’t overthink it – it can come up in any context.

Have you ever had situations where someone doesn’t want to change and you’ve been able to make them change?

No – Marshall would rather spend his time with people who do care.

When coaching adults, if they do not care, do not waste your time. “The time we waste on people who don’t care is stolen from people who do care.”

What do you suggest we do with 360 feedback that we receive – should we throw this process in the bin and switch to feed forward?

Feedback is still important in helping you understand where you are, it just has its limitations. Review the feedback, identify 1-2 things you really want to do better and then ask for feedforward.

Can you change when you think you have a bad attitude?

“Anyone can change – of course you can!”

Repeat to yourself: “My name is [], I don’t have an incurable genetic defect and if I want to have a better attitude I can.”

Marshall answers over 40 questions daily. How does he overcome question fatigue?

Write as many questions as you feel like – you don’t need that many.

Marshall admits he is “a coward and is undisciplined”, which is why he needs help completing his daily questions. However, “this has nothing to do with question fatigue and everything to do with cowardice.”