SOURCE: Marshall Goldsmith BBRC University Presentation (14-Jul-21).docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses Marshall Goldsmith's feedforward technique, which helps leaders improve by soliciting suggestions from others and practicing active listening.
KEYWORDS: leadership development, feedback, active listening, personal growth, coaching
---

[Document: Marshall Goldsmith BBRC University Presentation (14-Jul-21).docx]

Marshall Goldsmith – “Better Leaders – Developing Yourself and Building Relationships”

BBRC University, 14 July 2021

Marshall@MarshallGoldsmith.com

Feedforward: Feedforward is “the essence” of how Marshall performs coaching. Feedforward gets us into the habit of asking those around us, how can I be a better leader / partner / employee? (If you think you don’t have anything to improve, “think humility”.)

The feedforward exercise involves:

Letting go of the past

Listening to suggestions without judging

Learning as much as you can

Helping as much as you can

Learning points to help you be a great coach

Rules:

Rule 1: No feedback about the past, just the future.

Rule 2: You can’t judge or critique other people’s ideas. You can only accept the other person’s ideas and thank them. If you don’t want to use their advice, you don’t have to – “Only do what I teach if it works for you” (Buddhist concept).

How does feedforward work?

Step 1: Ask

Get in the habit of asking, “How can I be better?”

Marshall’s suggested script (using the example of how to be a better listener): “Thank you so much for participating. A lot of my feedback has been positive, and I want to stress how grateful I am for the good feedback, but there’s something I want to do better – my colleagues tell me that I’m not a good listener and I want to work on this. I’m not going to ask for more feedback on the past because I can’t change it, but I want ideas for the future – how can I be a better listener?”

In the same way we ask our customers for input on how we should improve, we should get in the habit of asking those around us how we can improve.

Ask your partner: what can I do to be a better partner in our relationship?

Ask your kids: what can I do to be a better parent? When Marshall asked his own kids, he started keeping track of how many days per year he spent >4hrs with his kids. After tracking the data, he realised he made more money in the years when he spent more time with his kids than when he spent less time with them.

Ask your parents: what can I do to be a better child? (Even if there’s nothing you need to improve, they’ll care that you wanted to ask.)

What’s the name of someone at home or work who you should be asking this question to?

Step 2: Listen

Once you start receiving someone’s feedforward, listen attentively to their advice.

Step 3: Think

Once you’ve heard their advice, pause before responding. “The last thing we should do is the first thing we want to do – express our opinion, rationalise, make excuses.”

Never speak when you’re angry or out of control. “Why should I be paid to control anything else if I can’t even control myself?”

Step 4: Thank

“Never punish anyone for telling you the truth.”

Example: if you’ve had a hard day and are driving with your partner in lots of traffic, and your partner shouts out, “Watch out, there’s a red light ahead!” How do you react? Did you stop and say thank you? What does it cost you to listen to their advice? Couldn’t it be extremely valuable? Shouldn’t we thank them for it?

Marshall recommends “The Checklist Manifesto” by Dr Atul Gawande at Harvard Medical School. Dr Gawande shows that if a nurse asks a surgeon questions from a simple checklist before a surgery, the risk of infection plummets and death rate drops by two-thirds. However, the majority of hospitals around the world do not let nurses ask doctors these questions because it would be harmful to doctors’ egos.

Step 5: Respond

One suggested response: “I can’t promise to do everything you’ve suggested, but I’ve heard you and I’m going to try.”

Step 6: Involve

“If you don’t mind, I’m going to involve you in helping me to get better and change.”

Step 7: Change

Put the feedforward into practice.

Step 8: Follow-up

In his research, Marshall wanted to understand: does anybody ever really change? After completing a study at five different companies, Marshall discovered that the people who change are “the people who follow-up and stick with it”.

Example follow-up: “One month ago I told you I wanted to be a better listener. Based on my performance in the last month, what can I do in the next two months to improve?” Repeat this after two months, four months, six months etc.

“In leadership, it doesn’t matter what you say, it only matters what you do.”

Daily question process

Marshall has had someone call him on the phone almost daily for the past 25 years to ask him c.46 questions about how he has performed that day.

“Everyone needs help – everyone needs a trainer to make sure you do what you know you should do.”

How to set up your daily questions: Open a spreadsheet. In one column write down what’s most important in your life, and in another column write down a series of questions that align with what’s important to you. Answers need to be “yes” or “no” (or a number). Set up seven boxes, one for every day of the week. Fill out the spreadsheet every day of the week. The spreadsheet will give you a “report card” on your week.

You need to come up with your own questions, which should be personal to you. Six suggested questions:

Did I do my best to set clear goals?

Did I do my best to make progress towards goal achievement?

Did I do my best to be happy? (The average score on this question is 5.5.)

Did I do my best to find meaning?

Did I do my best to build positive relationships?

Did I do my best to be fully engaged? (The key to employee engagement, far more than the company, is you.)