SOURCE: Master the One-on-One Meeting.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2018
TOPIC: Performance Management
SUMMARY: This text outlines how to effectively prepare for and conduct one-on-one meetings with employees, including setting an agenda, providing feedback, and following up.
KEYWORDS: one-on-one meetings, performance feedback, employee communication, remote work, meeting agenda
---

[Document: Master the One-on-One Meeting.pdf]

something before the meeting. For example:

Jessica, for our 1:1 tomorrow, I’d like to cover the following:

Review a potential change to the product roadmap for next quarter

and how that might impact your team. Please bring the latest

roadmap with you.

Walk through the training presentation deck you are preparing for your

new hires. Please send me your latest version tonight if you can?

Get feedback on whether the budget changes I made for you were

helpful. Let me know if there are new numbers I should look at before

we meet.

Hear about your vacation! Your pics looked awesome.

Let me know what else you’d like to cover. Looking forward to

catching up!

The 1:1 meeting

With an agenda set and materials pre-reviewed/in-hand, you are ready for a

productive session.

Walk through the agenda. Ask if there’s anything else to add before you

dig in. Always leave a door open—sometimes an employee is holding

back on something.

If there are hard things to discuss (maybe some tough performance

feedback), try to bookend it with two positive topics. That way, the close

of the meeting doesn’t leave your employee feeling down. You’ve given

them good feedback and some things to work on.

Do not monopolize the conversation. This is for you each to get time to

talk. Pause often and make sure there is opportunity for discussion and

questions.

Always end the meeting asking them how things are going overall and if

there is anything else you can do to make them successful. Sounds

awkward, but that’s your job! If your employees are a success, you are

success.

After the meeting

It is important to always follow up any 1:1 (or scheduled meeting, for that

matter) with notes on what was discussed, decisions made and, if relevant,

any constructive feedback that will be measured going forward. Keep it

short and sweet:

Jessica, good meeting today! From what we discussed:

Sounds like the roadmap change won’t slip the schedule much.

Please share the new schedule on slack so the team can digest it

before our Product group meeting.

Love the training deck! Let me know if you want to practice with me

before you present next week. You’re going to crush it.

Sounds like those budget tweaks aren’t cutting it for your team’s

needs. I’ll try to adjust next quarter, but right now you are going to

have to work with what you have. Manage your spend carefully.

Thanks for letting me know you’re working on a personnel issue on

your team. Let me know if I can help. Otherwise, keep me posted on

how it plays out.

A recap ensures that you’re both on the same page and it serves as an audit

trail if/when anything goes off the rails. Do this with ALL your employees.

Otherwise, some may wonder why they’re getting follow up emails and

others are not. Consistency in leadership is critical!

Remote employees and non-Directs

1:1s with remote employees can be tricky. I recommend using video

whenever possible and, if possible, 1-2 in-person 1:1s a year to maintain

the personal connection. All other suggestions above apply for the

remote employee.

It is perfectly OK to have 1:1s with junior people who do not work

directly for you. Just remember, you are NOT their manager. Be clear

about why you are requesting the meeting.

Perhaps you are the CEO and want to have a 1:1 with a lead engineer to

get a better understanding of a product challenge:

Make sure the engineer’s manager knows why you want to have the

meeting.

Make sure the engineer understands you would like to get the detail

directly vs. through other people. You are not going around their boss

who knows you are requesting this meeting.

Be very careful about feedback. Always end such meetings with next

steps being how you’ll follow up with the employee’s manager if there

are any action items. Never undermine someone’s manager by giving

specific direction without consulting with their manager. Especially if

you are the CEO/CTO or other senior position. Often, the most simple

“that sounds cool” can be heard as “do it!” from someone more

senior than your boss.

Invest in your team

One-on-ones can make all the difference in how you lead. Your time

invested in doing them right will pay off not only with each individual, but

with how your organization functions as a team.

Have other tips on running successful 1:1s or good lessons learned from

not having them? Please share in the comments.

Reprinted with permission from the author's blog post, Mastering the 1:1.

Related Reading:

Cultural Disharmony Undermines Workplace Creativity

What's a Boss Worth?

Introverts: The Best Leaders for Proactive Employees