SOURCE: Master the One-on-One Meeting.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2018
TOPIC: Management Practices
SUMMARY: The one-on-one meeting between supervisor and staff is an invaluable tool for managing and requires attention to detail to get the most out of it.
KEYWORDS: one-on-one meetings, employee management, performance reviews
---

[Document: Master the One-on-One Meeting.pdf]



22 AUG 2016 RESEARCH & IDEAS

BROWSE BY: TRENDING

Master the One-on-One

TOPICS

17 SEP 2018RESEARCH & IDEAS

INDUSTRIES Meeting

WELCOME TO

GEOGRAPHY

RETIREMENT. WHO AM I

FACULTY NOW?

Comments 14 Email Print Share Recommend2 Share

CATEGORIES

19 SEP 2018SHARPENING YOUR

SKILLS

Popular The one-on-one meeting between supervisor and staff is an invaluable tool

SAY AGAIN? UNCOMMON

Browse All Articles for managing, but requires much attention to detail. Julia B. Austin

ADVICE FOR COMMON

About Us explains best practices for getting the most out of the 1:1.

BUSINESS PROBLEMS

Newsletter Sign-Up

RSS 11 SEP 2017RESEARCH & IDEAS

by Julia B. Austin

WHY EMPLOYERS FAVOR

MEN

Whether you’re a CEO or a line manager, your team is just as important as a

group as its members are as individuals. Today’s tech companies offer

04 OCT 2017BOOK

many perks to attract and retain the best employees. We offer competitive FIVE LEADERS FORGED IN

salaries, training and the promise of success—professionally and CRISIS, AND WHAT WE

financially. But how we treat them as individuals can determine the way CAN LEARN FROM THEM

their DNA will impact the fabric of your organization. What are you doing,

as their manager, to make sure they are satisfied and making the best 24 SEP 2018RESEARCH & IDEAS

contribution to your organization? HOW COST ACCOUNTING

IS IMPROVING

HEALTHCARE IN RURAL

I have managed over 100 direct reports over the course of my career. From

HAITI

the nerdiest, most introverted engineer to the highly extroverted sales

executive. They’ve been on either side of up to 20 years senior or junior to

me, varying genders and from as far away as India and China to as near as

the office next door. No matter what their role, experience, proximity or FEATURED FACULTY

personality, I have always made their one-on-ones (1:1’s) a priority. Why are

1:1’s so important?

Whether it’s an hour a week or 30 minutes once a month, making time

for an individual says you give a damn about them as a person.

The 1:1 is the only forum where you can have an honest, private,

conversation with each other about what’s really going on—professionally

and personally.

This is a routine opportunity for you, as a manager, to assess the parts

JULIA B. AUSTIN

(your employees) that lead to the productive whole (your team)—which

we all know is more powerful than the sum of said parts.

Senior Lecturer of Business

A leader who makes time for their team members—especially those who

Administration

are also leaders—is less likely to suffer poor team performance because

of ambiguity and mistrust. Each 1:1 is an opportunity to clarify the goals

CONTACT

of the organization, your performance expectations and build a trusting

Send an email

relationship with your employees by getting to know them as people, not

just workers.

→More Articles

Finally, constructive 1:1s throughout the year makes performance

reviews a breeze. With routine 1:1s, review time can be more about goals

and the year ahead instead of constructive feedback from the past.

FIND RELATED ARTICLES

Don’t just schedule these important meetings with your direct reports, be

thoughtful about how these sessions play out. Below is the guidance I give

to new managers on conducting 1:1’s. CONFLICT MANAGEMENT

GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT

HUMAN CAPITAL

HUMAN RESOURCES

MANAGEMENT TEAMS

Be thoughtful about how your one-on-one meetings sessions might play out. Source: Yuri_Arcurs

Set expectations

Whether your employee has worked for you for awhile and you’re just

kicking off 1:1s, or they are a new hire and you’re rolling them into the

fold, set expectations up front.

I am a big believer in being clear about behavior changes. If this is a

new process you are putting in place at your company/in your team, be

transparent about it. Otherwise, people worry something bad is going to

happen (getting fired) if you all of sudden start scheduling 1:1s.

Announce it at a team meeting/all-hands or send out an email/slack

being clear about why these are important to do.

This meeting is for them as much as it is for you. Be clear that you do

this with all employees who work directly for you. No one is being singled

out.

Book a regular cadence of 1:1s. They should not be ad-hoc. It’s ok to

skip one every once and awhile, but having it locked into the calendar is

your commitment to being there for your employee.

Decide the best cadence with them (weekly or every other week? 30

minutes or an hour?) and what the format should be—your office or

theirs, a walk, or maybe grabbing coffee. Different formats work for

different employees and they can always be changed as you get into a

groove. [see below on remote employees]. Just don’t do after work drinks

—that suggests a less serious discussion.

The agenda

If a meeting is important enough to have, it should have an agenda.

Topics in a 1:1 should be about professional growth, personal

connection and for giving each other feedback. Do not use the meeting

to re-hash things from a group meeting or standup unless there are

specific things you took off-line in that meeting or need to provide/get

constructive feedback.

24 hours or so before the meeting, email the employee a list of what

you’d like to cover. Try to do a split between strategic, tactical and

personal items and always ask your employee what they want to cover

too. For efficiency, let them know if you need them to bring/read/do

something before the meeting. For example:

Jessica, for our 1:1 tomorrow, I’d like to cover the following:

Review a potential change to the product roadmap for next quarter

and how that might impact your team. Please bring the latest

roadmap with you.

Walk through the training presentation deck you are preparing for your

new hires. Please send me your latest version tonight if you can?

Get feedback on whether the budget changes I made for you were

helpful. Let me know if there are new numbers I should look at before