SOURCE: Melanie presentation_BBRC.pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Omni-Channel Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: Omni-channel is growing faster than pure-play online, and omni-channel customers are more loyal and spend more than single-channel customers.
KEYWORDS: omni-channel, click and collect, retail trends, customer experience, e-commerce
---

[Document: Melanie presentation_BBRC.pptx]
[Presentation Topic: Omni-Channel Retail Trends]

[Slide 1]

Brick is the new Black

September 18, 2015

Melanie Wilson

[Slide 2]

2

Omni-channel is growing faster than pure play online

International and domestic retailers are boosting their online channels to combat pure plays and capitalize on their physical footprints

Australia

International

Customers no longer separate the experience of shopping on-line vs in-stores

[Slide 3]

3

Omni-Channel customers are our best customers

Omni-Channel customers are more loyal and spend on average 2x to 4x the single-channel customer

Customers are utilising brand’s digital platforms to influence sales with on average 70% of customers researching online before they transact

Consumers are quickly merging the online and in-store shopping experience

Source: Woolworths Investor Presentation May 2015 and Forrester; Accenture; BIGinsight June 2012

[Slide 4]

4

Key Trends impacting Bricks and Mortar retailers today

Click and Collect

Social

Digital

Personalisation

Content

[Slide 5]

5

Flexibility and choice into today’s retail environment is now the norm

​

Customers want more choices, more control over when their purchases will be delivered and a convenient returns process

Source: PWC Report: Connected Retail: Reshaping tomorrow’s operating model and metrics April 2015

[Slide 6]

6

Click & Collect gives customers greater convenience in how they interact with brand

[Slide 7]

7

Click & Collect has benefits

for both customers and retailers

[Slide 8]

8

Internationally, the most successful retailers are placing C&C at the heart of their omni strategies

In the UK, customers use Click & Collect for about half of all online general merchandise orders – a figure that rises up to 75% at Xmas

“We are seeing about 34% of those visits translating into additional sales in shop and that number is growing exponentially at the moment. It’s typically or increasingly for purchases that the customer didn’t think they would make. John Lewis

More than ⅓ of customers stay to shop in-store

Avoiding delivery charges and convenience are driving the uplift in Click and Collect

[Slide 9]

9

Convenience and/or give customers great flexibility - ability to pick up at location close to them ie rural areas, regions where there are no branded stores?

Reduced delivery costs?

Understanding what is important to the customer will determine what is the right C&C model

Lockers

3rd Party Locations (Supers, Petrol stations)

Own Stores

Do your customers want certainty that the item is available in their size/colour?

Reduced delivery costs?

Faster delivery than home?

Want to be able to “try on” in stores?

[Slide 10]

10

Fastest (orders could be ready within 12 hours)

Improve stock turns

Returns put back into store  inventory to be “resold”

Requires accurate REAL TIME  inventory at store level (don’t want to risk disappointing customer if system says there is a item but in reality there is not)

Fulfillment solution is best defined by C&C method and may include both stores and warehouse

Lockers

3rd Party Locations (Supers, Petrol stations)

Own Stores

Fulfill from stores

Customers will have to wait longer (could be upto 3-5 days)

Additional cost to ship (if not sent with daily stock

Returns and cancellations take longer to get back into network

Benefit - ranges that are slow moving or would not extend across all stores

Fulfill from Warehouse &/or Hub Stores

[Slide 11]

11

New process to be added to in -store therefore requires training

Test experience/Blind shop

Missing parcels, long wait times, not being able to  return item in stores all lead to a poor customer experience

Measure stores NP score to measure customers experience

Not every stores makes a good C&C store

Factors to consider when determining C&C locations

Is the store too small to offer a good C&C experience?

Is there adequate space in stock room?

Is there space for signage and for customers?

At busy times will customers have to wait long??

Is there demand for the service  in certain stores/areas?

The experience in store

Where possible, give stores the financial recognition for the sale

Risk providing a poor service experience for click and collect customers

If store staff do not receive some recognition for online orders they may not deal with them in the same priority as customers in their stores

Give stores the financial recognition for the sale

[Slide 12]

In their minds you are picking from store - they are expecting to be able to collect it immediately!

They are often out and about shopping

Uncollected orders are expensive

involves contacting the customer, canceling the order, refund and return item

Text is most effective, and use pin or order number.

Follow up text with 3, 6 days and then 10 days

Make sure you have a cancel order date - so don’t miss sale on the item ie give customer ~ 2 weeks otherwise return to racks. Where possible return item to store inventory

Good technologies in the market to assist with picking and notifying orders such as Parcel Point

Make the process for collection is frictionless

if they don’t have their text or email, store associates can find their order easily

Others can pick up on their behalf ie mum in shopping centre

12

Almost half of all order are  collected within 24 hours

64% within 2 days

77% within 3 days

Notifying customers is key!

[Slide 13]

Most retailers have a minimum spend level ~ $40

Ensures the margin covers the “free” service

Customers are likely to add items to basket to reach this threshold to prevent shipping fee

C&C baskets tend to be 25% higher than home delivery and in both cases the average basket is above the minimum

13

Minimum spend - to or not too?

[Slide 14]

Same Day demand has decreased with only 23% of customer willing to pay for this service.

Delivery cost remains one  of the biggest reasons for cart abandonment!

Free shipping is the biggest driver to online sales with Customers willing to wait a few days if they can receive it free. Most retailers offer free shipping over a minimum threshold