SOURCE: Negotiations - Sept16_Malhotra_Hamilton Debrief.pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Negotiation Strategies
SUMMARY: This document discusses fundamental negotiation concepts such as BATNA, reservation value, and ZOPA, as well as strategies for capturing value in negotiations, including making effective opening offers and handling aggressive opening offers from the other side.
KEYWORDS: negotiation, BATNA, reservation value, ZOPA, opening offer, information control
---

[Document: Negotiations - Sept16_Malhotra_Hamilton Debrief.pptx]
[Presentation Topic: Negotiation fundamentals and strategies]

[Slide 1]

NEGOTIATION

Prof. Deepak Malhotra

Harvard Business School

Twitter: @Prof_Malhotra

© 2016, Prof. Deepak Malhotra

Sept16_Malhotra_Hamilton Debrief

[Slide 2]

HAMILTON REAL ESTATE

Prof. Deepak Malhotra

Harvard Business School

Twitter: @Prof_Malhotra

© 2016, Prof. Deepak Malhotra

[Slide 3]

Negotiation Fundamentals

[Slide 4]

Step 1: Assess your BATNA

Best Alternative to Negotiated Agreement

Identify your “no-deal” alternatives.

Calculate the value associated with each.

Select which is best…this is your BATNA.

Your BATNA is the course of action you will pursue if there is “no deal”.

[Slide 5]

Step 2: Calculate your Reservation Value

BATNA analysis helps you determine your reservation value.

Reservation Value:

The point at which you are indifferent between accepting the deal and walking away.

Also called:

Your walk-away point.

Your point of indifference.

Your reservation price.

[Slide 6]

Step 3: Evaluate their BATNA and RV

[Slide 7]

Step 4: Map out the ZOPA

Zone of Possible Agreement (ZOPA):

In a one-issue, price negotiation, this is the space between the seller’s reservation value and the buyer’s reservation value.

[Slide 8]

The Roosevelt Campaign

Campaign manager sends telegram to copyright owner:

"Planning to distribute three million copies of campaign speech with photographs. Excellent publicity opportunity for photographers. How much are you willing to pay to use your photographs? Respond immediately."

Photographer’s reply:

"Appreciate opportunity, but can only afford $250”.

[Slide 9]

Key to Capturing Value in Negotiation

Information is King

Control the Frame

[Slide 10]

Gather Information, Control the Frame

What of they frame the negotiation effectively and ask the right questions to you?

Prepare in advance, to answer the toughest questions that they might ask you in the negotiation.

Helps you to avoid lying.

Helps you to avoid giving up too much information.

Helps you to reclaim control of the conversation and the framing.

[Slide 11]

Capturing Value in Negotiation

Should you make the first offer?

YES... Opening offers are a powerful way to capture the frame of the negotiation. They can help you advantageously anchor the negotiation.

BUT…If you do not understand the ZOPA (i.e., how far the other side is willing to go), you might make an unwise opening offer.

Strive to be in a position to make an effective opening offer.

[Slide 12]

Capturing Value in Negotiation

What should your opening offer be?

Factors to Consider

The ZOPA

Your Target

Your Justification

The Relationship

The Context and Culture

[Slide 13]

Capturing Value in Negotiation

What should you do if the other side opens (aggressively)?

Separate Information from Influence

Ignore their anchor

Re-frame and re-anchor

The Midpoint Rule

[Slide 14]

Capturing Value in Negotiation

What if the other side makes the first offer…and you love it!

Any time you are surprised in a negotiation, you should begin to investigate!

Manage your outcomes and their satisfaction…

- You can get a good deal and a good relationship

- OR a bad deal and a bad relationship

[Slide 15]

Partial Summary of Session 1

Information is King: Probe, investigate, ask questions, challenge assumptions

Do careful/comprehensive BATNA analysis…and calculate your walk-away point

Evaluate their BATNA… what happens to them if there is no deal? How much value are you creating for them? Don’t be too anchored on your own BATNA.

Control the frame: make the negotiation about the value you create for them.

Anchor: if you understand the ZOPA, it is highly advantageous to make an appropriately aggressive 1st offer. This is a powerful way to control the frame.

Justify your offers…don’t just give a number… tell the story that goes with it.

Most people don’t like to lie, but they don’t mind if you are deceived… Ask focused questions and listen carefully to the answers they give (and don’t give).

Use contingency proposals to detect lies and deception.

How will you answer/handle their hardest questions? Prepare this in advance.

Respond to their aggressive anchors be reframing and re-anchoring. Control the frame.

Never miss an opportunity to learn…but separate information from influence.

Don’t assume a good-deal vs good-relationship tradeoff.

Manage the process and their expectations.

Any time you are surprised by anything, investigate!