SOURCE: Negotiation Mastery - BBRC High Focus Day - PRESENTATION.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Negotiation Strategies
SUMMARY: The text discusses 10+1 key strategies for mastering business negotiations, including preparation, setting goals, understanding alternatives, and focusing on the other party's needs.
KEYWORDS: negotiation, strategy, preparation, goal-setting, alternatives
---

NEGOTIATION

MASTERY

BBRC HIGH FOCUS DAY

“

WIN MORE

PRESENTED BY: DARREN HOLLAND DEALS AND

“

February 2020

CUSTOMERS

REFRESH OF

ACHIEVING SAVINGS!

6. 1.

2.

More for same

5.

2. 3.

Portfolio deal

4. 3.

4.

Scope of works

PAGE 2 4

10 +1 KEYS TO NEGOTIATION MASTERY

1. More preparation!

2. Establish your reservation price

3. Set an aggressive goal & leave yourself room to

concede!

4. Know their alternatives!

5. Always in person

6. Make the first offer

7. Focus on their needs!

8. Listening as a martial art

9. Present multiple offers

10.Negotiate at package level

+1 Every “no” gets you closer to a “yes”

PAGE 3 7

1. MORE PREPARATION

✓ A 1hr negotiation/meeting = 1hr of preparation

✓ Develop your script

✓ Prepare answers for their objections in advanced

✓ Be crystal clear on your goal for the meeting…i.e. introduce

yourself, build the relationship & trust, present your offer or close

the deal.

✓ Preparation = confidence!

✓ Find all the facts… about the business & the individual

✓ Are you dealing with the decision maker?

PAGE 4 8

3

2. ESTABLISH YOUR RESERVATION PRICE

• Know your reservation or walk away price before you start

negotiating

• Often this is your budget or forecast

• Be prepared to actually finish negotiating or withdraw once you

go below your “reservation price”

PAGE 5 9

3. SET AN AGGRESSIVE GOAL AND

LEAVE YOURSELF ROOM TO CONCEDE

• Create an ambitious but not outrageous goal price or offer

• Not offensive!

• Build your rationale to justify your price

• Leave enough wiggle room between

your reservation price and the goal

Goal

– build the relationship and shows

$

flexibility Reservation

Price

• People love seeing you concede!

PAGE 6 10

4. KNOW THEIR ALTERNATIVE!

• Analyse the other parties best alternative options if they

don’t reach agreement with you

• A real source of power in negotiation

• When preparing, focus on the weakness of the other parties

alternatives!

• Also be clear on your own alternatives if you don’t agree on

the deal…

PAGE 7 11

5. ALWAYS IN PERSON

• Never negotiate on email

• “If you can say it… don’t send it!”

• In person best, if not, on phone…

• Ok to email confirmation of your discussion afterwards

• Accelerate deals, improves relationships and you can read body

language, mirror and observe reactions to your offer

• Our future is held in the right hemisphere of our brain

PAGE 8 12

st

1

6. MAKE THE FIRST OFFER!

✓ “Those who speak first, win!”

✓ Make the first offer to “anchor” the price

and lead the conversation

✓ Relationship enhancing vs damaging

✓ If they do go first, don’t ask them questions about it, ignore it

and go back to your offer

✓ Practice pre-framing to ensure no surprises!

PAGE 9

13

7. FOCUS ON THEIR NEEDS!

✓ Identify what is their #1 pressing need before the negotiation?

✓ Take the time to get to know them, what matters to them, build

the relationship vs rush to close the deal

✓ Be a pronoun checker – no “I” or “we”, its all “you” or “your

company”

✓ It’s not about you!

PAGE 10 14

8. LISTENING AS A MARTIAL ART

• Basic human need is to be heard and understood – an essential life

skill

• Listening is cheapest and most effective concession to fulfil this need!

• Active listening vs passive listening

• Become an “expert in empathy”!

• Ask an open ended questions – how, what & why?

• Eyes peeled, ears open and mouth shut! Stop thinking about what

you’re going to say next

• Practice mirroring - summarise back key 2-3 words

• Slow down – be a “people mover” vs a problem solver

• Be a “detective” and have a mindset of discovery

• Power of the pause!

PAGE 11 15

9. PRESENT MULTIPLE OFFERS

✓ Present 2-3 offers you are willing to commit to

✓ 3 offers = a discussion vs 1 offer = a presentation

✓ Shows you are flexible, adaptable and improves your

relationship

✓ Allows you to gather info about what is important to them and

test what they have been telling you

PAGE 12 16

10. NEGOTIATE AT PACKAGE LEVEL

✓ Focus on the entire package vs issue by issue

✓ Use verb of “could” vs “will” – keep options open vs committing

✓ Use words like “big picture, related, depending on or linked”

✓ “Nothing is settled until everything is agreed”

✓ Be clear if this is a one-off (stand alone) vs an ongoing series of

deals (risk and opportunity of a precedent deal)

✓ No deal is better than a bad deal!

PAGE 13 19

+1. EVERY “NO” GETS YOU CLOSER TO A “YES”

• “F word” (fair) is the most powerful word in negotiation!

• Early in negotiation you can say “I want you to feel like you are being treated fairly

at all times, so please stop me at anytime if you feel I’m being unfair and we’ll

address it.”

• Beware of “yes” as there are 3 types:

1. Counterfeit – easy escape, avoiding confrontation

2. Confirmation – reflect response, affirmation with no action

3. Commitment – the real deal, leads to action!

• If your biggest fear is “no” you can’t negotiate. “No” ≠ rejection… so let go of your

baggage around this word!

• “No” is the start of the negotiation, not the end of it. It could mean:

“I’m not ready to agree yet, I don’t understand, I need more info, etc”

• “No” allows real issues to come up, helps others feel safe and in control and slows

things down…

PAGE 14 20

SUGGESTED READING

PAGE 15

QUESTIONS?

PAGE 16