SOURCE: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Organizational Change Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of building a volunteer army within an organization to drive strategic changes and how it can lead to increased engagement, visibility, and professional development.
KEYWORDS: volunteer army, strategic changes, organizational culture, dual operating systems, employee engagement
---

[Document: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt]

the temptation to slow down or stop will become ir- smart, and increasingly needed strategic force.

resistible. The volunteers will start focusing on their In organizations where the volunteer army has

work in the hierarchy, and the hierarchy will domi- really taken hold, individuals have told me that the

nate once more. rewards are tremendous—though rarely monetary.

8. Institutionalize strategic changes in the They talk about the fulfillment they get from pursu-

culture. No strategic initiative, big or small, is com- ing a mission they believe in. They appreciate the

plete until it has been incorporated into day-to-day chance to collaborate with a broader array of peo-

activities. A new direction or method must sink into ple than they ever could have before. A number of

the very culture of the enterprise—and it will do so if them say that their strategy work led to increased

the initiative produces visible results and sends your visibility across the organization and to bigger jobs

organization into a strategically better future. in the hierarchy. And their managers appreciate how

the volunteers develop professionally. In June 2012

The Volunteer army I got this e-mail message from a client in Europe:

The members of the volunteer army also help make “I can’t believe how quickly this second operating

the daily business of the organization hum; they’re system gives growth to real talents within the or-

not a separate group of consultants, new hires, or ganization. Once people feel ‘Yes, I can do it!’ they

task force appointees. They have organizational also start faster growth in their regular jobs in the

12 harvard Business review November 2012

This article is made available to you with compliments of Kotter International. Further posting, copying or distributing

is copyright infringement.

--- Page 13 ---

For article rePrints call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500, or visit hBr.org

hierarchy, which helps make today’s operations to pull that off? The situation won’t be improved by

more effective.” tweaking the usual methodology or adding turbo-

chargers to a single hierarchical system. That’s like

Building Momentum trying to rebuild an elephant so that it can be both an

Over the past three years I’ve aided eight organiza- elephant and a panther. It’s never going to happen.

tions, private and public, in building dual operating People have been writing for 50 years about un-

systems, and the challenges have been fairly predict- leashing human potential and directing the energy

able. One is how to ensure that the two parts work to big business challenges. But who, outside the

together and don’t drift apart. Here it is essential that world of start-ups, has succeeded? So few do be-

the GC and the executive committee maintain close cause they’re working within a system that basically

communication. Another is how to build momen- asks most people to shut up, take orders, and do

tum: Most important is to communicate wins from their jobs in a repetitive way.

the very start. Probably the biggest challenge is how People have been talking for a quarter of a cen-

to make people who are accustomed to a control- tury about the need for more leaders, because an

oriented hierarchy believe that a dual system is even organization’s top two or three executives can no

possible. Again, this is why a rational and compelling longer do it all. But very few jobs in traditional hier-

sense of urgency around a big strategic opportunity archical organizations provide the information and

is so important. Once it has been sparked, mobilizing the experience needed to become a leader. And the

the GC and putting the remaining accelerators in mo- solutions available—courses on leadership, for ex-

tion happens almost organically. ample—are wholly inadequate, because most devel-

A dual operating system doesn’t start fully formed opment of complex perspectives and skills happens

and doesn’t require a sweeping overhaul of the orga- on the job, not in the classroom.

nization. It grows over time, accelerates action over People have been grumbling for years about the

time, and takes on a life of its own that seems to dif- strategy consulting industry, whose reports fail to

fer from company to company in the details. It can solve the problem of finding and implementing strat-

start with small steps. Version 1.0 of a strategy net- egies to better fit a changing environment. A consul-

work may arise in only one part of an enterprise. Af- tant’s report—all thought and little heart, forecast-

ter it becomes a powerful accelerating force there, it ing where you can flourish in two or five or 10 years,

can expand throughout the organization. Version 1.0 produced by smart outsiders, and acted on in a linear

may play little or no role in strategy formulation but way by a limited number of appointed people—has

be involved, rather, in implementation. It may feel at little or no chance of success in a faster-moving,

first more like a big employee-engagement exercise more uncertain world.

that does, indeed, produce a much bigger payoff for The inevitable failures of single operating systems

the same size payroll. But the network and the ac- hurt us now. They are going to kill us in the future.

celerators evolve, and momentum comes faster than The 21st century will force us all to evolve toward

you might expect. a fundamentally new form of organization. I believe

that I have basically described that form here. We

a Summary and a prediction still have much to learn. Nevertheless, the compa-

Because a dual operating system evolves, it doesn’t nies that get there first, because they act now, will see

jolt the organization the way sudden dramatic immediate and long-term success—for shareholders,

change does. It doesn’t require the organization to customers, employees, and themselves. Those that

build something gigantic and then flick a switch lag will suffer greatly, if they survive at all.

to get it going. Think of it as a vast, purposeful ex- hBr reprint r1211B

pansion in scale, scope, and power of the smaller,