SOURCE: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Organizational Change Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses a dynamic approach to organizational change implemented by a sales division, including forming an 'urgency team' and developing a bold vision.
KEYWORDS: organizational change, sales strategy, accelerators, urgency team, vision statement
---

[Document: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt]

were selected, mostly—but not entirely—

an outside study, which recommended both a new strat- from middle management and below. they

egy and an implementation process that Davidson judged functioned without a formal leader, though

a facilitator organized meetings and phone

to be too rigid and complex for the kind of rapid change

calls. despite initial awkwardness about

needed. So he persuaded his division head and the CEO

the range of formal status across the gc,

to support a more dynamic approach to change. a new organizational logic arose: For any

given activity, the people with the relevant

davidson knew much of what he wanted: capable of changing faster—we’ve done it information, connections, motivation, and

a less costly sales operation, a broader in the past. skills took the lead.

range of distributors, the ability to move • We can create a very successful field With input from top management, the

into the marketplace faster, and more organization that we’re deeply proud of. outside study, and colleagues throughout

focus on high-growth asian markets. to davidson put the eight accelerators the organization, the gc developed a vision

get started on making those changes, he to work for his company. First he pulled and a strategy. the vision statement is con-

convened the sales division’s executive together an “urgency team” made up of 20 fidential, but it said roughly this: “Within

committee for a daylong meeting and volunteers from across the field organiza- 12 months we will be using intermediaries

charged it with creating a statement of op- tion who had credibility and who had em- successfully more than we ever have; our

portunity. i can’t share the statement (my braced the opportunity statement—intel- growth rate in emerging markets will be at

team worked with davidson), but here are lectually and emotionally—as soon as they least twice what it is today; we will have

its main points: heard it. this group agreed to an ambitious developed a discipline around innovation;

• We have an opportunity to increase our goal: getting buy-in from at least 50% and decision-making time will be cut in

sales growth by 50% or more in two years, of the 1,500-member sales division. The half, from a month to two weeks. We will

and to become the number one sales orga- urgency team spent three months devising be a proud, passionate group, still gaining

nization in the industry. dozens of ideas for forging a broad under- momentum to make us the most admired

• This is possible because (1) customer standing of, passion for, and commitment sales organization and the best place to

needs are changing, requiring competitors to the opportunity. it organized meetings, work in the industry.” the statement was

to change (but it is not guaranteed that created support materials, and built an in- perfectly rational, but there was also a lot

they will change fast enough), (2) markets tranet portal filled with information, videos, of heart in it.

in developing countries are starting to blogs, and stories about the ways in which The guiding coalition then took a first

explode, and (3) we are not operating at individuals on the sales team were already pass at identifying specific initiatives. Its

peak efficiency within the company. changing. members agreed on five, including attract-

• We have not changed fast enough next the urgency team, working with the ing and hiring outstanding people with

to keep up with external demands, even executive committee, invited employees asian experience, and making the product-

though we have great people. We are to apply for a role in the guiding coali- introduction process faster and more effi-

a typical hierarchy tends not to change from year to junk ordinarily pasted on it for tackling big strategic

year, the network can morph with ease. In the ab- initiatives—work streams, tiger teams, strategy de-

sence of bureaucratic layers, command-and-control partments—has been shifted over to the network.

prohibitions, and Six Sigma processes, this type of That leaves the hierarchy less encumbered and able

network permits a level of individualism, creativity, to perform better and faster what it is designed for:

and innovation that not even the least bureaucratic doing today’s job well, making incremental changes

hierarchy can provide. Populated with employees to further improve efficiency, and handling the small

from all across the organization and up and down its initiatives that help a company deal with predictable

ranks, the network liberates information from silos adjustments such as routine IT upgrades.

and hierarchical layers and enables it to flow with far The strategy network meshes with the hierarchy

greater freedom and accelerated speed. as an equal. It is not a super task force that reports

The hierarchy differs from almost every other to some level in the hierarchy. It is seamlessly con-

hierarchy today in one very important way: All the nected to and coordinated with the hierarchy in

8 harvard Business review November 2012

This article is made available to you with compliments of Kotter International. Further posting, copying or distributing

is copyright infringement.

--- Page 9 ---

For article rePrints call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500, or visit hBr.org

the dual operating system in Practice

cient. the vision and list of initiatives went made it up the hierarchy to the executive three years after davidson began to

first to the executive committee, which committee. create a dual operating system, his field

was generally enthusiastic but worried that the guiding coalition came up with a big, organization, and increasingly the entire

the gc might be taking on too much too visible win six months into the process: it division, are handling important issues in a

fast. the gc extended the timetable on built a new, simplified IT tool at a remark- new way. no one on the executive commit-

one of its initiatives and went to work. ably low cost in a short period of time. (it tee is overwhelmed by being appointed to