SOURCE: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Organizational Change Management
SUMMARY: The article discusses how a network of volunteers can drive strategic change within an organization by communicating a vision, attracting a volunteer army, and delivering visible short-term wins.
KEYWORDS: strategic change, volunteer army, dual operating system, short-term wins, organizational change
---

[Document: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt]

the network became an author of strategic change. attack it.” That person writes up a description and

That’s very powerful. sends it out to the volunteer army, and five people

To keep the two parts of a dual operating system immediately step forward. They set up a call to be-

connected and aligned, we have found, the GC must gin learning why this is happening, figuring out how

show a draft of the vision and initiatives to the or- to remove the barrier, and designing a solution—

ganization’s executive committee for comments. a better CRM system, perhaps. The team probably

A well-functioning GC will treat the committee’s includes someone from IT who has technical exper-

comments as highly valuable input but won’t auto- tise and can help identify where the money for the

matically accept them as commands. new system might come from. The team works with

4. Communicate the vision and the strategy additional volunteers who have relevant informa-

to create buy-in and attract a growing volun- tion—from whatever quarter may be germane—to

teer army. A vividly formulated, high-stakes vi- act quickly and efficiently. The time between the

sion and strategy, promulgated by a GC in ways that first call and this point might be two weeks—a model

are both memorable and authentic, will prompt of accelerated action. The network team settles on

people to discuss them without the cynicism that a practical solution that properly supports the sales

often greets messages cascading down the hierarchy. team. Then its members take their thinking to the

Done right, with creativity, such communications CIO, who gives feedback and may offer the budget

can go viral, attracting employees who buy in to the and the resources.

ambition of the message and begin to share a com- Design and implementation occur in the network

mitment to it. and are instituted within the hierarchy. And if the

This point tends to prompt skepticism from network is truly operating hand-in-glove with the

people who have seen attempts to motivate a work- hierarchy, the people in the hierarchy are champing

force fail. But if the right messages are sent from at the bit to get the new CRM system.

a passionate GC to colleagues who feel a sense of 6. Celebrate visible, significant short-term

urgency, the volunteer army will start to gather. I’ve wins. A strategy network’s credibility won’t last long

seen it happen. Motivation is an issue when people without confirmation that its decisions and actions

are forced to work in boxes within a hierarchy where are actually benefiting the organization. Skeptics

workers become bored, new ideas aren’t welcome, will erect obstacles unless they see proof that the

and managers aren’t effective. And it does not take dual operating system is creating real results. And

many volunteers to get a network launched: Again, people have only so much patience, so proof must

10% of the total employee population will do. That’s come quickly. To ensure success, the best short-term

500 people in an organization of 5,000. wins should be obvious, unambiguous, and clearly

November 2012 harvard Business review 11

This article is made available to you with compliments of Kotter International. Further posting, copying or distributing

is copyright infringement.

--- Page 12 ---

The Big idea accelerate!

related to the vision. Celebrating those wins will knowledge, relationships, credibility, and influence.

buoy the volunteer army and prompt more employ- They understand the need for change—they are

ees to buy in. Success breeds success. often the first to see threats or opportunities—and

If wins are not forthcoming, that in itself is use- have the zeal to implement it.

ful feedback: Something is wrong. A committed GC, It is vital that this army be made up of individuals

with many eyes and ears to take in the reality of the who bring energy, commitment, and genuine enthu-

situation and with no status or territory to protect, siasm. They are not a bunch of grunts carrying out

can quickly tweak either the decisions it has made or orders from the brass. Rather, they are change lead-

the methods used for implementing those decisions. ers. Whereas hierarchies require management to

The volunteer army is not a bunch of grunts

carrying out orders from the brass. Its

members are change leaders who bring

energy, commitment, and enthusiasm.

7. Never let up. Keep learning from experi- maintain an efficient status quo, networks demand

ence. Don’t declare victory too soon. Organiza- leadership from every individual within them.

tions must continue to carry through on strategic People who have never seen this sort of dual

initiatives and create new ones, to adapt to shifting operating system work often worry, quite logically,

business environments, and thus to enhance their that a bunch of enthusiastic volunteers might cre-

competitive positions. When an organization takes ate more problems than they solve—by, for example,

its foot off the gas, cultural and political resistance running off and making not very thoughtful deci-

arise. sions and disrupting daily operations. Here is where

Here, again, is why urgency is so central to the the very specific details built into the network and

strategy part of the dual operating system. It keeps the accelerators come into play. This second system

people going. If it is weak to begin with, or neglected, not only creates the army but guides the volunteers

the volunteer army’s determination will flag, and with a structure and processes that create a powerful,

the temptation to slow down or stop will become ir- smart, and increasingly needed strategic force.

resistible. The volunteers will start focusing on their In organizations where the volunteer army has

work in the hierarchy, and the hierarchy will domi- really taken hold, individuals have told me that the

nate once more. rewards are tremendous—though rarely monetary.

8. Institutionalize strategic changes in the They talk about the fulfillment they get from pursu-

culture. No strategic initiative, big or small, is com- ing a mission they believe in. They appreciate the