SOURCE: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: The text describes a successful organizational change initiative that accelerated progress by removing barriers and boosting credibility.
KEYWORDS: change management, strategic initiatives, dual operating system
---

[Document: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt]

was generally enthusiastic but worried that the guiding coalition came up with a big, organization, and increasingly the entire

the gc might be taking on too much too visible win six months into the process: it division, are handling important issues in a

fast. the gc extended the timetable on built a new, simplified IT tool at a remark- new way. no one on the executive commit-

one of its initiatives and went to work. ably low cost in a short period of time. (it tee is overwhelmed by being appointed to

the original urgency team’s methods had been a time-consuming trouble spot.) help guide two or three strategic initiatives

helped the gc take the vision and the First an initiative team interviewed users at once. despite all the change, com-

strategy to the entire field organization, to understand why the existing system was plaints about change fatigue in the core

using training, communications tools, the failing; then it reached out to the volunteer business are few.

portal, and face-to-face conversations, army for expertise. one e-mail request the results are dramatic. the system has

which proved to be particularly powerful. for help, sent to 100 people, elicited 35 accelerated the creation of new partner-

the more team members talked to col- responses within four days. salespeople ships, new ways of dealing with direct

leagues, the more excited people became. and their managers loved the end product. customers, a faster product-introduction

i was at one lunch where a gc member success with this single effort, observed in process, shorter response times on

spoke, and as the group broke up, the man the field organization and broadcast on the complaints, superior data for the product

next to me said, “For the first time ever, I portal, accelerated progress by removing a development group on shifting customer

understand where we need to go, and how. big barrier and boosted the dual operating needs, and faster growth in asia—it was up

and it really makes sense!” system’s credibility. by more than 60% in 2011, compared with

Six months in, the GC had five major the company never let up. i have lost 25% three years ago. and the division has

initiatives in place, each of which had from count of how many initiatives it has com- started to win back market share, which

one to six subinitiatives. the initiative to pleted over the past three years and how the financial community has rewarded

hire excellent people in asia, for example, many barriers have been removed. many with a 55% increase in the company’s

sprouted a subinitiative to bring new peo- mistakes occurred along the way, but the market cap.

ple up to speed more quickly. the focus system continues to improve, and version these are still early days. if the dual op-

was on eliminating barriers to accelerated 2.0, now at the division level, is without a erating system is to achieve its true poten-

movement in the right direction. doubt more sophisticated than version 1.0. tial, it must spread to the entire enterprise.

the people involved talked, e-mailed, the biggest accomplishments so far i think it will. that’s when the company will

and met as needed to get the work done. have been institutionalized in the hier- become a model of both strategic agility

in the main gc meetings, members archical organization and integrated in and short-term efficiency: today’s results

reported progress, shared information, so- daily operations. in cases where strate- will grow stronger and stronger while the

licited ideas, and asked for help (“Who has gic changes don’t fit some aspect of the whole organization works together to

experience with the Japanese market?”). company culture, the relevant team looks sense threats and respond to them before

senior managers helped to ensure that for ways to change the culture. to a large it’s too late—and, more important, to

lower-level employees got the informa- extent this happens naturally if the new seize and exploit opportunities at a pace

tion they needed to make smart deci- approach produces better results; but that will ensure that it flourishes for years

sions. lower-level people added frontline sometimes changes are so big that nurtur- to come.

information that ordinarily wouldn’t have ing is needed.

a number of ways, chiefly through the people who 1. Create a sense of urgency around a sin-

populate both systems. Still, the organization’s gle big opportunity. This is absolutely critical

leaders play an important role in launching and to heightening the organization’s awareness that

maintaining the network: the C-suite or executive it needs continual strategic adjustments and that

committee must create it (more on that later) and they should always be aligned with the biggest op-

explicitly bless and support it. The network cannot portunity in sight. Urgency starts at the top of the

be viewed as a rogue operation. It must be treated as hierarchy, and it is important that executives keep

a legitimate part of the organization, or the hierarchy acknowledging and reinforcing it so that people will

will crush it. wake up every morning determined to find some ac-

tion they can take in their day to move toward that

The eight accelerators opportunity.

These are the processes that enable the strategy net- Sufficient urgency around a strategically rational

work to function: and emotionally exciting opportunity is the bedrock

November 2012 harvard Business review 9

This article is made available to you with compliments of Kotter International. Further posting, copying or distributing

is copyright infringement.

--- Page 10 ---

The Big idea accelerate!

upon which all else is built. In my original work 15 2. Build and maintain a guiding coalition.

years ago, I found that ridding an organization of The core of a strategy network is the guiding co-

complacency was important. In my more recent alition (GC), which is made up of volunteers from

work, I’ve seen ongoing urgency emerge as a strong throughout the organization. In my work with cli-