SOURCE: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Change Management Strategies
SUMMARY: The text discusses the limitations of traditional hierarchical management approaches in dealing with rapid change, and the need for a dual operating system that combines a management-driven hierarchy with a strategy network.
KEYWORDS: change management, hierarchical structures, strategy network, dual operating system, organizational change
---

[Document: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt]

rules, and give more discretion to people who sit it is clear that you need to move from point A to a

lower in the hierarchy. This methodology can deal well-defined point B; the distance between the two

with both tactical and strategic issues in a changing is not galactic; and pushback from employees will

world—but only up to a point. not prove to be herculean. Change-management

The old methodology simply can’t handle rapid processes supplement the system we know. They

change. Hierarchies and standard managerial pro- can slide easily into a project-management organi-

cesses, even when minimally bureaucratic, are in- zation. They can be made stronger or faster by add-

herently risk-averse and resistant to change. Part of ing more resources, more-sophisticated versions of

the problem is political: Managers are loath to take the same old methods, or smarter people to drive

chances without permission from superiors. Part of the process—but again, only up to a point. After that

the problem is cultural: People cling to their habits point, using this approach to launch strategic initia-

and fear loss of power and stature—two essential ele- tives that ask an organization to absorb more change

ments of hierarchies. And part of the problem is that faster can create confusion, resistance, fatigue, and

all hierarchies, with their specialized units, rules, higher costs.

and optimized processes, crave stability and default

to doing what they already know how to do. (These Complementary Systems

characteristics are even more pronounced when Mounting complexity and rapid change create stra-

you pile one hierarchy on top of another to create a tegic challenges that even a souped-up hierarchy

matrixed organization.) can’t handle. That’s why the dual operating system—

Moreover, strategy implementation methodolo- a management-driven hierarchy working in concert

gies, hung on the hierarchical spine, are not up to with a strategy network—works so remarkably well.

6 harvard Business review November 2012

This article is made available to you with compliments of Kotter International. Further posting, copying or distributing

is copyright infringement.

--- Page 7 ---

For article rePrints call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500, or visit hBr.org

two structures,

one organization

hierarChy HIeRARCHY NeTwork

GuIdING

COAlItION

INItIAtIve

suBINItIAtIve

vOluNteeRs

stAff tHe NetwORk

At the heart of the dual operating system are five contrast, needs lots of leadership, which means it

principles: operates with different processes and language and

• Many change agents, not just the usual few expectations. The game is all about vision, oppor-

appointees. To move faster and further, you need tunity, agility, inspired action, and celebration—not

to pull more people than ever before into the strate- project management, budget reviews, reporting

gic change game, but in a way that is economically relationships, compensation, and accountability to

realistic. That means not large numbers of full-time a plan.

or even part-time appointments but volunteers. And • Two systems, one organization. The net-

10% of the managerial and employee population is work and the hierarchy must be inseparable, with a

both plenty and possible. constant flow of information and activity between

• A want-to and a get-to—not just a have-to— them—an approach that works in part because the

mind-set. You cannot mobilize voluntary energy volunteers in the network all work within the hi-

and brainpower unless people want to be change erarchy. (See the exhibit “Two Structures, One Or-

agents and feel they have permission to do so. The ganization.”) The dual operating system is not two

spirit of volunteerism—the desire to work with oth- supersilos, like the old Xerox PARC (an amazing stra-

ers for a shared purpose—energizes the network. tegic innovation machine) and Xerox (which pretty

• Head and heart, not just head. People won’t much ignored PARC and the commercial opportuni-

want to do a day job in the hierarchy and a night job ties it uncovered).

in the network—which is essentially how a dual op- Governed by these principles, the strategy net-

erating system works—if you appeal only to logic, work can be incredibly flexible and adaptable; the

with numbers and business cases. You must ap- accelerators can drive problem solving, collabora-

peal to their emotions, too. You must speak to their tion, and creativity; and the people doing this work—

genuine desire to contribute to positive change and the volunteer army—will be focused, committed,

to take an enterprise in strategically smart ways into and passionate.

a better future, giving greater meaning and purpose The network is like a solar system, with a guid-

to their work. ing coalition as the sun, strategic initiatives as plan-

• Much more leadership, not just more man- ets, and subinitiatives as moons (or even satellites).

agement. At the core of a successful hierarchy is This structure is dynamic: Initiatives and subinitia-

competent management. A strategy network, by tives coalesce and disband as needed. Although

November 2012 harvard Business review 7

This article is made available to you with compliments of Kotter International. Further posting, copying or distributing

is copyright infringement.

--- Page 8 ---

The Big idea accelerate!

the dual operating system in Practice

Paul Davidson, a sales executive for a B2B technology firm tion. the application form asked why they

(I’ve disguised his name and some company details), had wanted to be on the gc, how they planned

to manage the additional workload, and

seen sales growth slip for a number of years. When his

more. About 210 people applied, and 36

division started to lose market share, he commissioned

were selected, mostly—but not entirely—

an outside study, which recommended both a new strat- from middle management and below. they

egy and an implementation process that Davidson judged functioned without a formal leader, though

a facilitator organized meetings and phone

to be too rigid and complex for the kind of rapid change

calls. despite initial awkwardness about

needed. So he persuaded his division head and the CEO

the range of formal status across the gc,

to support a more dynamic approach to change. a new organizational logic arose: For any

given activity, the people with the relevant