SOURCE: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: The article discusses the importance of building and maintaining a guiding coalition to drive strategic change and create a sense of urgency within the organization.
KEYWORDS: Change Management, Guiding Coalition, Strategic Vision, Dual Operating System, Organizational Transformation
---

[Document: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt]

This article is made available to you with compliments of Kotter International. Further posting, copying or distributing

is copyright infringement.

--- Page 10 ---

The Big idea accelerate!

upon which all else is built. In my original work 15 2. Build and maintain a guiding coalition.

years ago, I found that ridding an organization of The core of a strategy network is the guiding co-

complacency was important. In my more recent alition (GC), which is made up of volunteers from

work, I’ve seen ongoing urgency emerge as a strong throughout the organization. In my work with cli-

competitive advantage. It can galvanize a volunteer ents, people fill out applications to be on the GC.

army and keep the dual operating system in good With a sufficient sense of urgency, you may get 10

working order. It moves managers to focus on oppor- times as many applications as there are roles in the

tunities and allow the network to grow for the ben- network’s core.

efit of the organization. Without an abiding sense of The GC is selected to represent each of the hier-

urgency, no chance of creating a grander business archy’s departments and levels, with a broad range

will survive. of skills. It must be made up of people whom the

For clients, my team has begun by having the ex- leadership trusts, and must include at least a few

ecutive committee take a first pass at articulating the outstanding leaders and managers. This ensures

strategic opportunity. This makes sense because its that the GC can gather and process information as

members are in a position to see the big picture and no hierarchy ever could.

because their role in nurturing the dual structure is All members of the GC are equal; no internal hi-

vital—particularly in the early days, when it is most erarchy slows down the transfer of information. The

vulnerable to the forces of resistance. (For the story coalition can see inside and outside the enterprise,

of how one sales executive at a technology firm cre- knows the details and the big picture, and uses all

ated urgency, see the sidebar “The Dual Operating this information to make good enterprisewide de-

System in Practice.”) cisions about which strategic initiatives to launch

and how best to do so. The social dynamics of the

GC may be uncomfortable at first, but once a team

learns how to operate well, most members seem to

love being part of it.

The eight accelerators

3. Formulate a strategic vision and develop

the processes that enable the strategy network to function change initiatives designed to capitalize on the

big opportunity. The vision will serve as a strate-

gic true north for the dual operating system. A well-

formulated vision is focused on taking advantage of

institutionalize Build and maintain a a big make-or-break opportunity. (If no such oppor-

strategic changes guiding coalition. tunity exists, because you operate in a rare pocket of

in the culture.

competitive stability, you may not need this system

quite yet. But keep your eyes open: That situation

won’t last.) The right vision is feasible and easy to

never let up. Formulate a strategic communicate. It is emotionally appealing as well

Keep learning CreaTe a SeNSe vision and develop as strategically smart. And it gives the GC a picture

from experience. change initiatives

of urgeNCy of success and enough information and direction to

don’t declare victory designed to capitalize

too soon. arouNd a on the big opportunity. make consequential decisions on the fly, without

SiNgLe Big having to seek permission at every turn.

opporTuNiTy. In creating one company’s vision statement, the

guiding coalition sought input from top manage-

communicate the ment, a consultant’s report, and colleagues through-

celebrate visible, vision and the strategy

out the organization. The vision statement described

significant short- to create buy-in and

term wins. accelerate attract a growing what the sales group, which was dealing with mar-

movement toward “volunteer army.” ket losses, could look like in a year if it accelerated

the vision and the

toward a big opportunity. It outlined pragmatic

opportunity by

ensuring that the goals but framed them with emotional resonance,

network removes using words such as “proud,” “passionate,” and “ad-

barriers.

mired.” As a result, the group vowed to work better

with partners, double growth in emerging markets,

10 harvard Business review November 2012

This article is made available to you with compliments of Kotter International. Further posting, copying or distributing

is copyright infringement.

--- Page 11 ---

For article rePrints call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500, or visit hBr.org

Sufficient urgency around a strategically

rational and emotionally exciting

opportunity is the bedrock upon which

all else is built.

innovate constantly, and halve the time it took to 5. Accelerate movement toward the vision

make decisions. and the opportunity by ensuring that the net-

Next the GC identified the five strategic initia- work removes barriers. Perhaps a sales rep has

tives that its members deemed critical to achieving gotten customer complaints about bureaucratic

the vision and that they wanted very much to work hang-ups. He doesn’t know how to fix the problem

on, including “innovation in attacking growing mar- and doesn’t have time to think about it. Someone

kets.” Inspired by the vision and guided by the initia- in the network gets wind of this and says, “I’ve

tives that flowed logically from it, everyone within seen that. I volunteer. I’ll put together a group and

the network became an author of strategic change. attack it.” That person writes up a description and

That’s very powerful. sends it out to the volunteer army, and five people

To keep the two parts of a dual operating system immediately step forward. They set up a call to be-

connected and aligned, we have found, the GC must gin learning why this is happening, figuring out how

show a draft of the vision and initiatives to the or- to remove the barrier, and designing a solution—