SOURCE: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Organizational Transformation
SUMMARY: The text discusses how a dual operating system can help organizations adapt quickly to changing business environments without requiring dramatic change.
KEYWORDS: organizational change, agility, dual operating system, implementation, acceleration
---

[Document: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt]

a Summary and a prediction still have much to learn. Nevertheless, the compa-

Because a dual operating system evolves, it doesn’t nies that get there first, because they act now, will see

jolt the organization the way sudden dramatic immediate and long-term success—for shareholders,

change does. It doesn’t require the organization to customers, employees, and themselves. Those that

build something gigantic and then flick a switch lag will suffer greatly, if they survive at all.

to get it going. Think of it as a vast, purposeful ex- hBr reprint r1211B

pansion in scale, scope, and power of the smaller,

informal networks that accomplish tasks faster and John p. kotter is the Konosuke matsushita Professor

of leadership, emeritus at harvard Business school

cheaper than hierarchies can.

and the author of 17 books, including Leading Change (reis-

The system offers a solution to problems we have sued with a new preface by harvard Business review Press,

known about for some time. People have been writ- 2012), The Heart of Change (with dan s. cohen; reissued

by Harvard Business Review Press, 2012), and (with Lorne

ing for at least 20 years about the increasing speed

A. Whitehead) Buy-In: Saving Your Good Idea from Getting

of business and the need for organizations to be Shot Down (Harvard Business Review Press, 2010). He is

quicker and much more agile. But who has been able a cofounder of Kotter international.

November 2012 harvard Business review 13

This article is made available to you with compliments of Kotter International. Further posting, copying or distributing

is copyright infringement.

--- Page 14 ---

Kotter international

--- Page 15 ---

Kotter international

--- Page 16 ---

About Kotter International

Kotter International, founded by world renowned Harvard Business School Professor, John P.

Kotter, has a singular focus to help organizations accelerate the successful implementation of

their key strategic initiatives. Using the change principles Dr. Kotter delineated through 30

years of research, combined with the broad and deep experience in implementing those

principles, Kotter International leverages the power inherent within your organization. The

result is accelerated strategic implementation and an organization that is more adaptable for

the future.

With the accelerated pace of business today, windows of opportunity for success, or to avoid

failure, are fleeting. Studies show that 70% of large-scale change efforts fail to meet their

stated objectives. The financial and human consequences are extraordinarily high. Kotter

International helps organizations avoid the barriers to implementing key strategies, and helps

them do it faster than they thought possible. Dr. Kotter’s 8-Step Process for Leading Change

is tailored to fit the specific needs and circumstances of each client organization, providing

unique approaches to complex problems that drive accelerated results.

5 Bennett Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 1000 Second Avenue, Suite 3300, Seattle, WA 98104

Tel 206.812.0030 Fax 206.812.0140 Visit us online at www.kotterinternational.com