SOURCE: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Strategic Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the evolution of strategy systems, emphasizing the need for companies to constantly seek competitive advantage and adapt to a faster-changing world.
KEYWORDS: strategic change, organizational agility, dynamic strategy, accelerators, strategic fitness
---

[Document: OFFICIAL-_-Accelerate-HBR-Nov_2012_print-1.txt]

ture organizations, informal networks of change IT project that required many changes and then, af-

agents frequently operate under the hierarchical ra- ter a long pause, spend five years developing a pro-

dar. What I am describing also echoes much of the pensity for risk-taking in the product development

most interesting management thinking of the past function. They could put the eight-step process to

few decades—from Michael Porter’s wake-up call work and then pack it away until it was needed again.

that organizations need to pay attention to strategy But that methodology has a hard time producing ex-

much more explicitly and frequently, to Clayton cellent results in a faster-changing world.

Christensen’s insights about how poorly tradition- Today companies must constantly seek competi-

ally organized companies handle the technological tive advantage without disrupting daily operations.

discontinuities inherent in a faster-moving world, to Sure, industries face varying levels of turmoil, but

recent work by the Nobel laureate Daniel Kahneman what smart company isn’t worried about being dis-

(Thinking, Fast and Slow, 2011) describing the brain intermediated, out-Googled, or otherwise made

as two coordinated systems, one more emotional irrelevant—and how many are successfully doing

and one more rational. something about it? In fact, the whole notion of

The new strategy system also expands on the “strategy”—a word that is now used loosely to cover

eight-step method I first documented 15 years ago sporadic planning around what businesses to be in

(in Leading Change), while studying successful large- and important policies concerning how to compete

scale change: establishing a sense of urgency, creat- in those businesses—has to evolve. Strategy should

ing a guiding coalition, developing a change vision, be viewed as a dynamic force that constantly seeks

communicating the vision for buy-in, empowering opportunities, identifies initiatives that will capital-

broad-based action, generating short-term wins, ize on them, and completes those initiatives swiftly

never letting up, and incorporating changes into the and efficiently. I think of that force as an ongoing

culture. process of “searching, doing, learning, and modify-

There are three main differences between those ing,” and of the eight accelerators as the activities

eight steps and the eight “accelerators” on which the that inform strategy and bring it to life. The network

strategy system runs: (1) The steps are often used in and the accelerators can serve as a continuous and

rigid, finite, and sequential ways, in effecting or re- holistic strategic change function—one that ac-

sponding to episodic change, whereas the accelera- celerates momentum and agility because it never

tors are concurrent and always at work. (2) The steps stops. They impart a kind of strategic “fitness”:

are usually driven by a small, powerful core group, The more the organization exercises its strategy

whereas the accelerators pull in as many people as skills, the more adept it becomes at dealing with a

possible from throughout the organization to form hypercompetitive environment. The network and

a “volunteer army.” (3) The steps are designed to the hierarchy, functioning as a dual operating sys-

function within a traditional hierarchy, whereas tem, can produce more wealth, better products and

November 2012 harvard Business review 5

This article is made available to you with compliments of Kotter International. Further posting, copying or distributing

is copyright infringement.

--- Page 6 ---

The Big idea accelerate!

two structures,

one organization

traditional hierarchies and processes,

which together form an organization’s

“operating system,” do a great job of

services, and a more exciting place to work in an era handling the operational needs of most

of exponential change. companies, but they are too rigid to

adjust to the quick shifts in today’s

The Limits of hierarchy and

marketplace. the most agile, innovative

Conventional Change Management

companies add a second operating

Hierarchies are useful. They let us sort work into de-

system, built on a fluid, networklike

partments, product divisions, regions, and the like

structure, to continually formulate

with expertise, time-tested procedures, and clear

and implement strategy. the second

reporting relationships and accountability so that

operating system runs on its own

we can do what we know how to do with efficiency,

predictability, and effectiveness. Hierarchies are di- processes (see “the eight accelerators,”

rected by familiar managerial processes for planning, page 52) and is staffed by volunteers

budgeting, defining jobs, hiring and firing, and mea- from throughout the company.

suring results.

We have learned how to improve our hierarchy-

based businesses. We launch initiatives to take on

new tasks and improve performance on old ones. We

have learned how to identify new problems, find and

analyze data in a dynamic marketplace, build busi-

ness cases for change, and gain approval. We have

learned to execute by adding task forces, tiger teams,

project-management and change-management de-

partments, executive sponsors for new initiatives, the challenge of managing speedy transformation.

and associated measurement and incentive schemes. Change management typically relies on tools—such

We can do this while taking care of the day-to-day as diagnostic assessments and analyses, communi-

work of the organization because this change meth- cations techniques, and training modules—that can

odology is easily accommodated by the hierarchical be invaluable in helping with episodic problems for

structure and basic managerial processes. It works which there are relatively straightforward solutions,

especially well if we make the structure less bureau- such as implementing a well-tested financial report-

cratic, with fewer layers and fewer questionable ing system. These approaches are effective when

rules, and give more discretion to people who sit it is clear that you need to move from point A to a

lower in the hierarchy. This methodology can deal well-defined point B; the distance between the two

with both tactical and strategic issues in a changing is not galactic; and pushback from employees will

world—but only up to a point. not prove to be herculean. Change-management

The old methodology simply can’t handle rapid processes supplement the system we know. They

change. Hierarchies and standard managerial pro- can slide easily into a project-management organi-