SOURCE: Participants Responses_HFT Budgeting.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.04 HFT - Budgeting
TOPIC: Budgeting Process
SUMMARY: The text discusses the key elements CEO's look for in a successful budgeting and improvement planning (BIP) process, including goal setting, realistic targets, and learning from past mistakes.
KEYWORDS: budgeting, improvement planning, goal setting, realistic targets, lessons learned
---

HIGH FOCUS TOPIC : "BUDGETING" CHAIRPERSON : BRETT BLUNDY PAGE 1 / 2

FRI 15 APRIL | 1 PM SGT | 3 PM AEST

PARTICIPANTS' RESPONSES SUMMARY

NO PARTICIPANTS RESPONSES

What are the 3 things as a CEO that you look for in a successful BIP process?

AVENTUS Like goal setting, the BIP is a creative process, it is fundamentally about improving and reloading our business each year .

1 Darren Holland (We request our team to come up with 3 wild ideas if money were no object! On several occasions, a few of these ideas were

CEO actually implemented). It shouldn’t been seen as an obligation or a task , it should be viewed as an opportunity.

2 Lawrence Wong On capex requests, our teams should prepare business cases for every proposal - pitch and fight for every new idea. Include as

CFO many team as possible in the process ie. ideas from the ground up and when managers are pitching for projects, make sure the

PA’s are in the room to learn and observe.

3 Gary Jones

COO I look for the following:

1. Accuracy of the forecast – realistic numbers and timeframes

2. ‘Delivery related to prep” – making sure the team is prepared with confirmed quotes, council approvals, Billy Bean etc

3. Reviewed for the whole business – ‘Zero based budgeting’ – building from the base up . We prepare two sets of BIPs – one for

the portfolio and one for the management company – we need to make sure that they speak to each other.

BRAS N THINGS 1. Achievable targets – there’s nothing worse than the feeling of not succeeding and ending up in a downward spiral.

4 George Wahby It is critical that we provide realistic targets that are not soft, that still challenge the business.

CEO

2. Remind Team of how a BIP is not a chore but an opportunity! Open the horizon and explore the possibilities.

5 Glynn Wright Be careful of staying realistic but always embrace the prospects. We must look to our procedures and find where we can drive

CFO efficiencies: this will lead us to be more productive.

6 Ray Itaoui 3. Don’t be arrogant. Learn from the past years mistakes. We always have to remember the errors in judgement in what we

Executive Director have made over the past year. This acts as a ‘lesson learned’ and ensures we won’t fall into the same trap.

Track where we could have saved money in CODB and drill down on these costs.

HONEY BIRDETTE Strategy – I want the BIP and Swing sheet to help me and my business leaders take a breath from tactical execution and focus

7 Eloise Monaghan on what could be.

CEO

> New Countries

8 Chris Gillian > Store Roll out & untapped markets

CFO > New Product Offerings

> FX and Margin impact – how we respond

> LFL growth and how we are going to drive it

> HQ Staff numbers and new positions

Goals – I want to have succinct goals for the business.

> I want to be able to see clearly each month if we have delivered on what we said we would

> I need enough detail that if EBIT targets are not hit, we can easily see what went wrong and address.

> I do not want thousands of pages of analysis that are out of date on the 1st of July.

> I do not want paralysis by analysis either in the BIP or monthly reporting.

Efficiency – I do not want to be drawn into discussions on what the likely increase in electricity prices for Geelong will be.

> I want to think about the big picture and then I want to get back to driving the business forward.

> I do not want my business leaders (perhaps CFO excluded) spending hours on the minutia

> If a piece of analysis does not influence decision making, it is useless.

HIGH FOCUS TOPIC : "BUDGETING" CHAIRPERSON : BRETT BLUNDY PAGE 2 / 2

FRI 15 APRIL | 1 PM SGT | 3 PM AEST

NO PARTICIPANTS RESPONSES

What are the 3 things as a CEO that you look for in a successful BIP process?

LOVISA • I like to start with a bigger vision, not just for this next year but for the medium term. I like three years. I think five years in

9 Steve Doyle todays’ world is too long, way too much can change, whereas if I am only looking ahead one year we may not be positioned to

Global General take advantage of opportunities that may present themselves in the next couple of years. This process revolves around the

Manager Strategic plan and getting the board and senior management to buy into where it is that we want to be, what we could, should

and even shouldn’t do during this period. This process gives us the aspirational numbers for each of the next three years and

10 Iain Sadler gives us the foundation for the next years BIP.

CFO

So to summarise that, Begin with the end in mind, the three year plan (which is reviewed and updated every year thereafter).

We have just titled ours You + 3 =400. Which internally to our Management (Regional and above) means with your commitment

in three years we will go from around 250 stores at financial year end to 400 stores in three years.

• The next step is to get the management team to own the their BIP. Whilst we already have a pretty good view of where it will

end up, getting them involved in building it so they take notice of things that may catch them out if they haven’t thought it

through, for example cycling clearance programs or where we’ve made mistakes in the last period, if we don’t make that same