SOURCE: Participants Responses_HFT Budgeting.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.04 HFT - Budgeting
TOPIC: Strategic Budgeting and Financial Planning
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of involving the management team in the budgeting process, ensuring data quality, and aligning the team with the company's vision for growth.
KEYWORDS: budgeting, financial planning, team involvement, data quality, strategic alignment
---

end up, getting them involved in building it so they take notice of things that may catch them out if they haven’t thought it

through, for example cycling clearance programs or where we’ve made mistakes in the last period, if we don’t make that same

mistake again then we will have upside in the next period. Of course there will always be opposing views, are we prepared to

take a lower return in the short term in order to build a strong foundation for future growth or are we in a stage where our

shareholders are demanding more short term profitability and modest medium term growth.

To summarise, the management team need to feel confident in their numbers and take ownership and accountability for their

BIP.

• Finally we have a board member who has a saying “In God we trust, everybody else bring data”. Quality information and from

people who know what it means and how it influences the business is critically important. Testing that the team have

considered the implication of the data, who it came from, which currency is it, are there other considerations such as inflation in

that country that we are not thinking about etc. We have recently started a new team member in finance who is a qualified

accountant which is great. But he is not a retailer so I am talking to him continually about the way retail works and that there is

much for him to learn, you can’t just assume that because this happened last week or last month that it will happen again. You

need to understand the drivers to understand what may happen in the future.

Summary

1. Begin with the end in mind, start with the vision (three year plan) at higher level and then drill down into the detail for the

year that we are planning for.

2. Get the team to own it. We have a much stronger chance of beating it if they know how it was built, what assumptions were

made and what factors were considered.

3. Garbage in= Garbage out. We need quality information from people who know their business and think deeper than the

question.

+1

Share the dream with the team. They will go even harder if they are part of the plan. You + 3 = 400.

11 DUSK TBA

Leonie Hoskings

CFO