SOURCE: People and Development_Shane Fallscheer 240715 (NOT PRESENTED).pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Hiring and Recruitment
SUMMARY: The document discusses best practices for effective hiring, including analyzing reporting structures, conducting thorough interviews, seeking second opinions, and performing reference checks.
KEYWORDS: hiring, recruitment, interviews, reference checks, employee selection
---

[Document: People and Development_Shane Fallscheer 240715 (NOT PRESENTED).pptx]
[Presentation Topic: People Development]

Who reports into them (title and name)

Who they report to (title and name)

This will give you a clear view of where they sit in the organisation, and help you understand if job titles mean something different in other organisations.

If anyone has anything to hide in the reporting this will usually flush this out.

Then ask them “so when I call XXX and ask them about you what will they say ?”, this question will usually provoke a response good or bad.

[Slide 12]

The Interview

Other lessons I have learnt;

If you want someone to move, buy a car etc always get them to do it up front.

To enforce these actions at a later date (post probation etc) is hard.

You will inevitably hear, ‘I can manage the drive’ or ‘public transport if fine I have only been late a few times’.

Furthermore it shows an ultimate commitment to the role, not a ‘try before you buy attitude’.

Very few good people ever get made redundant.

It never gets any better once they start, i.e. I need to leave right on time Tuesdays and Thursdays

[Slide 13]

Buyer Beware

Second opinions…………there is no such thing as too many interviews;

As people managers we are trained to look for the good in people.

It is very easy to become blinded by someone’s energy or raw ambition.

The more senior the role, the more right you have to be the first time, getting it wrong will be too costly.

Don’t be afraid to get them in front of someone else to double check your thoughts on an individual.

If in doubt keep digging, don’t take a punt.

If a technical role put them in front of someone technical.

[Slide 14]

Buyer Beware

Reference checks

Always do them.

Make the role contingent on successful ref checks and be clear who you intend to call, if something is going to come out it will come out there and then.

Never call the ones they suggest

Use the org chart to get to the right people

Try and do them yourself, especially senior roles

Think laterally of how to get to someone that knows them i.e. who knows someone that would know someone, retail is a small world.

[Slide 15]

Buyer Beware

Before appointing anyone ask yourself;

“Is this recruit clearly better than any potential internal candidate?”

Sometimes when recruiting I think we can overlook our own team as we know too much about them, i.e. buyers assistants.

Question: What tools do we have in place to help deliver a successful recruitment process ?

[Slide 16]

Management

Sharing the vision and setting goals

An essential ingredient in managing your team and maximising performance is to communicate;

The vision

The individuals short and long term goals.

[Slide 17]

Management

To establish a performance culture our team need to know ‘what good looks like’, therefore having  goals to;

Chase

Achieve

Surpass

Don’t get this confused with a job description.

Our teams want this and need this as it takes the passion out of assessing someone that;

Works hard

Overtly displays their raw ambition

Is a ‘good guy/girl’

We need to set clear and measurable goals for our team to achieve.

[Slide 18]

Management

QUESTION:

Please write down;

Your direct reports

What their key outcomes are for their role ?

Can they actually control these outcomes ?

Are they measurable ?

Do we report on these ?

Are bonuses tied to these ?

Do you think they would be able to write them down and match yours ?

[Slide 19]

Developing Future Leaders

QUESTION:

Draw a pie graph and map in how much time we spend on the following tasks;

Recruiting our team

Managing our team

Identifying our future leaders

Developing future leaders

Should we be moving some of the time we are using between these activities ?

After all these guys will dictate the success of your business both now and in the future.

In reverse think about if we aren’t caring and developing these guys that are typically high achievers, they will either morph into being average or leave !

[Slide 20]

What key attributes should we look for to assist us in identifying future leaders ?

Developing

Future

Leaders

[Slide 21]

1/ Personal Capabilities, ask yourself ?

Are they capable of doing more ?

Do they want to do more ?

Are they willing to learn ?

Do they have the ability to learn ?

Please score your top five team on the above questions.

Key Attributes of Future Leaders

[Slide 22]

2/ Focus and ability to deliver results ?

Think about all the ‘inputs’ that go into delivering a great result………there is a lot !

So ask yourself ?

-  Are they focused on delivering a result ?

Do they have a track record of delivering a result ?

Do they understand how to impact and effect an outcome ?

I have met a number of great team members over the years that look and feel right, say all the right things, just can’t deliver a result.

Keep in mind “figures don’t lie…………..ever”

Please score your top five team on the above.

Key attributes of future leaders

[Slide 23]

3/ Interpersonal skills

This is about how do they relate to others, after all retail is a people business.

So ask yourself;

How well do they communicate with their peers ?

How well do they communicate up the line ?

How well do they communicate to their team ?

How well do they communicate to other team in the business that they don’t have ‘management control’ over ?

Do they have the ability to inspire others ?

Do they have the ability to involve others ?

Have they actually demonstrated the ability to develop others?

Please score your top five team on the above.

Key Attributes of Future Leaders

[Slide 24]

4/ Character  (definition: the aggregate of features and traits that form the individual nature of a person)