SOURCE: People and Development_Shane Fallscheer 240715 (NOT PRESENTED).pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Talent Management
SUMMARY: This presentation discusses the ongoing challenges in effectively recruiting, managing, and developing a team to drive business growth.
KEYWORDS: recruitment, talent management, employee development, leadership, business growth
---

[Document: People and Development_Shane Fallscheer 240715 (NOT PRESENTED).pptx]
[Presentation Topic: People Development]

[Slide 1]

People & Development

[Slide 2]

People & Development

An ongoing challenge across all of our businesses is to effectively;

recruit

manage

continually develop our team.

I have attempted to pull together practical thoughts, ideas, actions I have learnt along my journey to share with you.

A wise man once said to me “eat the fish and spit out the bones”

[Slide 3]

People & Development

Our own careers and potentially our companies growth will be hindered unless we work and continually re-visit all of the skills required in these three areas;

recruitment

management

continual development of future leaders

Some companies have very stringent programs for all of these actions, others are more organic, or you may be somewhere in between but either way these processes need ongoing thoughts and discipline in any organisation.

Please rate both your businesses and yourself between 1 and 10, 10 being great in the 3 above areas.

[Slide 4]

Scorecard

[Slide 5]

Recruitment

This is the first building block to building our teams and sourcing future leaders of our businesses.

Getting the selection process right can generate massive upsides for any team, business or personal career.

Think about the upside of a well executed recruitment program and the flow on effects;

Stability improves

Morale improves

Performance improves

Profits improve

Growth continues

Everyone moves up !

[Slide 6]

Recruitment

So let think about the down side of a poor recruitment program or selection process and the potentially devastating flow on effects;

Morale deteriorates

Stability deteriorates

Performance deteriorates

Profits deteriorate

Growth ceases

Everyone sits still

The smart ones leave, the ‘not so’ smart ones stay !

A dangerous cycle sets in

Best case, if we bring in the wrong person there is a delay in achieving the outcomes the business wants to achieve, but more often it is worse than this.

[Slide 7]

Recruitment

Not going to cover and A – Z of recruitment, just some tips and lessons

At any level we should always be in the market;

you never when you are going to need someone

It keeps you up to date with who is doing what

You never know where the next star is going to come from.

If you have a vacancy, (depending on the urgency of the role) even if you think you have the right team member internally I think it is a benefit to go to the market.

Even if you then fill it internally, if you hit a few issues you won’t be second guessing yourself thinking ‘I should have gone to the market’.

I don’t like to advertise roles internally, if there is someone internally that you think is right for the role, give it to them.

Putting the role to the general team and then saying ‘no’ to the majority can’t be a good thing, there are other ways to communicate to your team where they are at in their career.

[Slide 8]

The Interview

Take your time to read the resume well before the interview (not morning of). Retail is a small world and there is no use meeting someone if you can ‘check them out in advance’.

Additionally by preparing it sets a standard to the candidate (potential team member). It will be a better interview if you don’t have to constantly refer to the resume. That way you can have a discussion and ask questions about there career without having to refer back to it.

Control the flow of the interview and don’t be afraid to chop and change around, if there is something to hide it will usually come out.

Be careful, people lie in interviews, it doesn’t mean they are bad people, sometimes they just really want the job and will say what they need to get the job.

[Slide 9]

The Interview

Look at their career history, ideally know it in your head.

Starting at the most recent role, wherever possible I ask;

How did you get that role ?

Why did you decide to leave that role ?

What process did you go through to find the next role ?

What did they say when you resigned ?

I then work back 2 -3 roles

[Slide 10]

The Interview

I find that this series of questions will tell you more about how a person thinks or behaves than most others most others, as you will learn;

What their employers reaction was to the resignation, i.e. did companies do all that they could to hold them or was it relief !

Is their name always out with an agency, getting seek alerts etc and always looking ?

Is there a key leader in their career that they follow around, if so where are they now ? Why aren’t they there ?

If their job history is 18-24 months I always ask myself, what would we do different to arrest that behaviour, 99% of the time I conclude nothing therefore it will continue.

[Slide 11]

The Interview

I also try and understand the REAL reporting structure as this is commonly exaggerated.

Additional to this we also need to know who to do the reference checks with (not who they suggest).

During the interview, on the back of the resume I write their name in the middle of a page.

Then ask them;

Who else is on their reporting line (titles)

Who reports into them (title and name)

Who they report to (title and name)

This will give you a clear view of where they sit in the organisation, and help you understand if job titles mean something different in other organisations.

If anyone has anything to hide in the reporting this will usually flush this out.

Then ask them “so when I call XXX and ask them about you what will they say ?”, this question will usually provoke a response good or bad.

[Slide 12]

The Interview

Other lessons I have learnt;