SOURCE: People and Development_Shane Fallscheer 240715 (NOT PRESENTED).pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Employee Retention
SUMMARY: The document discusses reasons why employees may leave an organization, such as lack of alignment with leadership, poor communication, and unmet personal and professional development needs.
KEYWORDS: employee retention, team management, leadership, professional development
---

[Document: People and Development_Shane Fallscheer 240715 (NOT PRESENTED).pptx]
[Presentation Topic: People Development]

40% don’t respect the person they report into.

50% say they have different values than their employer.

60% don’t feel their career goals are aligned with the plans their employer has for them

70% don’t feel fully valued by their employer.

[Slide 46]

Retaining your Team

Keep in mind;

‘Employers don’t quit working for companies, they quit working for their bosses’.

Team that do leave, usually leave due to some sort of disconnect with this boss.

[Slide 47]

Retaining your Team

Great Team require maintenance

Don’t let your team drift

Constant communication

One on ones

Appraisals

If you see an issue address it

[Slide 48]

Team will leave if………..

1. We fail to unleash/understand their passions.

Human nature makes it very hard for people to walk away from something they are passionate about. Fail to understand our teams passions and they will pursue them elsewhere.

2. We fail to challenge them intellectually.

Smart people and high achievers don’t like living in a world of boredom or repetition. If we don’t challenge their minds they will look for someone that will.

3. We fail to engage their creativity.

Talented people are hard wired to improve, enhance and add value, they like to change and innovate. They need to put their fingerprints on something. Same rules apply if we don’t allow this to take place they will go somewhere that will.

[Slide 49]

Team will leave if………..

4. We fail to develop their skills.

Learning and growing isn’t a destination to get to and stop. Especially talented team will look for continual ways to learn and grow. If we restrict this ability to grow, they will leave us for someone that won’t.

5. We fail to give them a voice.

Talented people have good thoughts, ideas and observations. If we don’t listen to them they will go and find someone that will.

6. We fail to care.

Regardless of how much we may pay someone, if we fail to care about our team at a human and emotional level they will leave us to find someone that will.

[Slide 50]

Team will leave if………..

7. We fail to lead.

Businesses don’t fail and teams don’t fail – leaders fail.

The best way to measure leadership, is if there isn’t any……………what happens without leadership………….very little.

If we fail to lead, our talented team will seek leadership somewhere else.

8. We fail to recognize their contributions.

Our job as a leader is to not take credit but give it. If we fail to recognize high performance it is as good as asking our team to leave.

9. We fail to increase their responsibility.

Try not to confine talent, if we do, one of two things will happen. They will dissolve into mediocrity or they will go looking for more responsibility elsewhere.

Talented people WILL accept a huge workload, as long as they are rewarded and recognised for it.

‘If you want something done give it to the busiest person in the room’.

[Slide 51]

Team will leave if………..

10. We fail to keep our commitments.

Promises made are worthless, but promises kept are invaluable.

If we break trust with our team or individuals that we lead, it will be very costly to ourselves and our business. Relationships that may have taken years to build can be irreparably damaged by a broken commitment.

Key lesson in these points is, if we can spend more time thinking about, trying to understand, care, invest and lead our teams well the retention will take care of itself.

QUESTION. Think about your highest performer and rank yourself out of 10 for how well you are delivering to them on the above ten.

[Slide 52]

Keep Maintaining the Garden

Growing and building a team is like maintaining a garden.

Some team members’ like some plants will just thrive in any conditions.

Others need some water and pruning to get them on their way.

Then there are the weeds, people with poor character and if not careful they can take over your entire garden.

So pull them out as quickly as you identify them, there is no other way.

By doing this, even if painful the rest of your garden will always be better off !

[Slide 53]

Summary

An ongoing challenge across all of our businesses is to effectively recruit, manage and continually develop our team.

We don’t all have to do it the same way and follow the same systems.

Recruitment is key, get this right and everything will move in the right direction, get it wrong and the opposite happens.

Look at ‘the why’ in the interview, try and understand the applicants character.

Reference checks are key.

[Slide 54]

Summary

An essential ingredient in managing your team and maximising performance is to communicate;

The vision

The individuals short and long term goals.

Make sure you measure and report on them.

Take time to develop your future leaders, not just manage the business.

Remember the key attributes,  you can’t train character

Think about strengths and weaknesses and how we manage them.

[Slide 55]

Summary

We need to push different buttons on different people to get the best outcomes.

Once you start putting time into your team you should start seeing payback quickly, if you don’t you never will.

People leave bosses not companies

Team will leave if we let them down or fail to understand them, they will go looking for someone that does.

Weed the garden constantly, if you have made a mistake act on it.

[Slide 56]

Summary