SOURCE: People and Development_Shane Fallscheer 240715 (NOT PRESENTED).pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses the key attributes and assessment considerations for identifying future leaders within a team, focusing on communication skills, character, and operational abilities.
KEYWORDS: leadership potential, character attributes, communication skills, operational skills, team assessment
---

[Document: People and Development_Shane Fallscheer 240715 (NOT PRESENTED).pptx]
[Presentation Topic: People Development]

How well do they communicate up the line ?

How well do they communicate to their team ?

How well do they communicate to other team in the business that they don’t have ‘management control’ over ?

Do they have the ability to inspire others ?

Do they have the ability to involve others ?

Have they actually demonstrated the ability to develop others?

Please score your top five team on the above.

Key Attributes of Future Leaders

[Slide 24]

4/ Character  (definition: the aggregate of features and traits that form the individual nature of a person)

People that demonstrate a strong character:

Follow through on commitments

Keep their word

Make decisions for the good of the organisation and not to suit their own personal agenda

Open and transparent

Treat others with respect (they don’t smile up and kick down)

Assume others have good intentions and not bad, they think people will typically do the right thing

Consistently deliver

Are humble; Having or showing a modest or low estimate of one’s importance:

I believe you can’t be a great leader without a good character, especially in the long term, but there’s a challenge to this.

Most studies say that a character is usually set by the time someone is in their mid twenties, they either have it or they don’t.’

Please score your top five team on the above.

Key Attributes of Future Leaders

[Slide 25]

Assessing Our Team

When assessing the leadership potential of our team, it is easy to place a high value on;

Good implementers or someone with strong operational skills

These can be seen as foot soldiers in a business

They are great at ‘getting the job done’

They are usually efficient in everything they do

They are great and needed in every business

However;

As responsibilities increase roles becomes not just about how to ‘fix’ an issue

Be mindful that as we  progress most roles become less defined

Forward thinking, strategic skills and vision are required

We need be conscious that individuals that demonstrate strong operational skills may need coaching in some of these areas as their careers progress.

[Slide 26]

2.        Similarity & familiarity

By nature we tend to levitate towards people with similar character traits, background or experiences as ourselves.

This can be identified as he/she ‘fits straight in’ or ‘it feels like you have been forever’’.

Be aware when you hear someone comment,  ‘he is good but doesn’t fit in’ or ‘she doesn’t have the culture’ that we don’t lose sight of a future leader in the making just because they are different from you or your team.

Assessing our team

[Slide 27]

3.	Great Public speaking/Presentation skills

Sometimes great public speakers can present or sell themselves very well. They may be entertaining and have the ability to hold the attention of a large group.

However;

They may struggle or lack the ability to have one on one conversations with  substance.

Be careful not to overvalue these skills.

Assessing our team

[Slide 28]

Assessing our team

4.  Raw ambition

This is great and to be admired.

However ambition may not always relate back to someone’s abilities or strength of character.

Not everyone that wants to get ahead is going to be like a pup running around wagging his tail.

A number of great leaders are humble but still fiercely competitive on the inside; they just don’t display their ambitions overtly.

Be careful not to confuse someone’s ambition with ability, or ambition as a gauge of their desire to progress.

[Slide 29]

Developing future leaders

There are some key attributes required for all managers involved in the development of our future leaders.

We have to be genuine about wanting to see people grow, you can’t fake this.

If someone’s only motives in developing the next person is for them to get ahead they will probably fail in the long term.

Ultimately the most successful leaders and developers of people get a kick out of seeing people grow and become successful in their own right.

[Slide 30]

Developing our leaders

Assuming our future leaders have shown promise in the key attributes;

Personally capable

Delivering results

Interpersonal skills

Character

Our role then becomes one to develop them into future leaders.

[Slide 31]

Developing our leaders

“Great leaders are not defined by the absence of weaknesses, but by the presence of clear strengths”

Everyone will have their own strengths and weaknesses.

Don’t devote all of your time and energy into fixing or improving individuals  weaknesses, change is difficult, so instead of pushing hard for change in these areas, there is the opportunity to do two things;

1/ embrace them for what they are

2/ continually build on your strengths.

[Slide 32]

Developing our leaders

EXERCISE

Please list 5 of your key team

List their 3 key strengths

List their 3 key weaknesses

Do you think your team would recognise their strengths and weaknesses the same as you do ?

Are we doing enough to at least identify the weaknesses and then harness the strengths ?

[Slide 33]

Developing our leaders

Last tip on strengths and weaknesses

We need to be aware that as leaders we cast a significant shadow over our teams and business, so we shouldn’t be surprised that over time our team will grow to share the same strengths and weaknesses as ourselves.

[Slide 34]

As we begin to develop our team we will probably find that future leaders will fall into four categories.

1.   Reluctant leaders

Have all the talent but can’t see themselves being a leader

Don’t have as much faith/confidence in their abilities as you may

May feel insecure in their role or in being promoted

Solution

Focus on building their confidence

Help coach them with decision making

Assist in advising them with conflict resolution

Provide constant encouragement and support

Coaching Tips

[Slide 35]

Arrogant leaders

Believe they already know it all.

They don’t think they need to learn a lot from here.

May lack empathy and humility