SOURCE: People and Development_Shane Fallscheer 240715 (NOT PRESENTED).pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses different types of leaders, their characteristics, and strategies to develop them, including building confidence, providing coaching, and challenging them outside their comfort zones.
KEYWORDS: leadership styles, coaching strategies, talent development, performance management, future leaders
---

[Document: People and Development_Shane Fallscheer 240715 (NOT PRESENTED).pptx]
[Presentation Topic: People Development]

1.   Reluctant leaders

Have all the talent but can’t see themselves being a leader

Don’t have as much faith/confidence in their abilities as you may

May feel insecure in their role or in being promoted

Solution

Focus on building their confidence

Help coach them with decision making

Assist in advising them with conflict resolution

Provide constant encouragement and support

Coaching Tips

[Slide 35]

Arrogant leaders

Believe they already know it all.

They don’t think they need to learn a lot from here.

May lack empathy and humility

Are typically ‘self marketers’

Solution

These guys can be just as insecure as the reluctant leaders, they just put on a better show.

Coach and place them in roles that require teamwork.

These guys may need a rude awakening or harsh feedback.

Worst case - lay out the downside of what will occur if they don’t get it right.

Their manner/personality will enable them to absorb this better than others.

Coaching Tips

[Slide 36]

Coaching tips

Unknown leaders

Do a great job in the background.

Are still ambitious yet more cautious about stepping forward.

It will take longer to build a relationship and get to know these guys.

They typically won’t like and will avoid small talk.

Struggle to develop relationships outside a very tight circle.

Our biggest challenge is we just need to find them ! Especially in roles where clear performance measures may not be in place.

Solution

Challenge them out of their comfort zone.

Coach them to see that more can be achieved by using their skills and performing on a wider platform.

Keep putting them in new environments and working with different groups of people.

Coach them to see they are managing a brand being themselves.

With a lot of coaching, most will thrive.

Coaching Tips

[Slide 37]

Coaching tips

Workaholics

For guys that come up through the ranks this is the most common theme.

These guys just work, work comes first for them doing every hour possible.

This has probably got them onto the radar.

The danger here is although they can be highly visible to the organisation they may not necessarily make a lot of progress.

MOUSE IN THE WHEEL

Very high chance if not inevitable of burnout.

Solution

Break down their belief that their dept. revolves around them only.

Start to work on delegation skills.

Get alongside them and critically manage their time.

If need be force time restraints onto these guys.

Coaching Tips

[Slide 38]

Developing Future Leaders

There is no such thing as a ‘one size fits all’ way of developing your team.

Different people will require different methods or ‘different buttons to be pushed’ to both motivate them and to grow their skills.

Some individuals maybe appreciate or be motivated from;

close mentoring relationships.

constant coaching

continual feedback

one on one time

However; we need to be careful as these team members can become too reliant on one person as their coach and mentor and  sooner or later that support mechanism won’t be around.

[Slide 39]

Developing Future Leaders

In most cases future leaders prefer the opposite to this.

The style that will probably produce a better result is to tell them what the goals are and delegate the tasks to them fully.

This will allow them to grow through their own trial, successes and errors.

They will build confidence as they grow.

As they begin to perform, give them other assignments or extra things to do.

Most important, set the bar high and expect a lot………You will probably get it!

[Slide 40]

Developing Future Leaders

One trap that I see take place is either an over enthusiastic team member, or a team leader trying to develop someone is they allow team to drift out of their “Circle of Concern”

[Slide 41]

Circle of Concern

Circle of Concern

Causing stress to themselves

Cause angst among the team

Causing worry

A lot of team lose huge amounts of energy, time and stress when they drift out of on the Circle of Concern…

When they don’t have any real control

[Slide 42]

We need to coach and guide them to spend all of their time and energy on areas that they can;

Control

Take action

Are measured on to Deliver

an outcome

It is no good having a star performer bouncing around in other areas and then missing what they are measured on

Circle of Influence

Circle of Concern

Circle of Influence

[Slide 43]

Circle of Influence

Circle of Concern

We need to coach and give confidence to our team to continue to deliver in their Circle of Influence and it will grow

Circle of Concern

Circle of Influence

[Slide 44]

Developing Future Leaders

When you start putting time and attention into individuals you should start seeing the results in the individual quickly.

If you don’t you probably never will………good people grab the ball and run with it.

Your job is to ensure that in reverse, you don’t allow a large portion of your time to be consumed by what is typically non-performers.

So make sure that you find the balance and continue to invest time into the team that ‘hold up their end of the bargain’.

[Slide 45]

Retaining your team

Few things are as costly and disruptive as unexpected resignations from your  team.

Most businesses think they score pretty highly on team morale, retention initiatives etc however recent stats show;

30% believe they will be working somewhere else within 12 months.

40% don’t respect the person they report into.

50% say they have different values than their employer.

60% don’t feel their career goals are aligned with the plans their employer has for them

70% don’t feel fully valued by their employer.

[Slide 46]

Retaining your Team

Keep in mind;

‘Employers don’t quit working for companies, they quit working for their bosses’.

Team that do leave, usually leave due to some sort of disconnect with this boss.

[Slide 47]

Retaining your Team

Great Team require maintenance

Don’t let your team drift

Constant communication