SOURCE: People Asset Review (PAR) - Monthly Process Overview.doc
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.06 HFT - PARS
TOPIC: Employee Performance Review
SUMMARY: A monthly process to review the skills, abilities, and attitudes of all team members, focusing on their performance and potential for growth.
KEYWORDS: employee review, performance evaluation, talent management, workforce development, personnel assessment
---

Monthly People Asset Review

“Because our people are our greatest asset”

This document assists in explaining the process, guidelines and the outcomes of the Monthly People Asset Review.

PURPOSE

As retailers, we are responsible for producing sales.  We are also responsible for maximising the gross profit by minimising markdowns and shrinkage.  We are responsible for minimising expenses and for producing maximum productivity from our team.  All of these results combined demonstrate our level of success.

Each result has a defined benchmark, which assists us in understanding our performance against a standard.  Each result is reviewed on a regular basis; at the end of every month we ask ourselves, did our numbers stack up, were we successful?

The only way we can achieve great results is through our people and the way they carry out their roles, so through this we understand that, it is actually our people, who are our greatest asset.

Just as we give time and attention to review our numbers at the end of each month, we need to review our people in the same way, if not with even more importance than the numbers.  Reviewing our people on a regular basis leads to improvements in not only profit and results but also improvements to our culture and team member development.

APPLICATION

The monthly people asset review is simply a tool that provides an opportunity to consistently assess our people.  It ensures our greatest assets i.e. our people, are in a capable position to produce our best results.

When reviewing our people we must not only take their performance into consideration but also their potential for growth and further opportunity.  The monthly people asset review takes both of the factors into consideration giving them even weighting.

The review is not intended to be a “rating” system of our people or a negative practice.  Its sole purpose is to improve performance and ensure that we are focused on our people and the results they produce.

The review has been designed to be a minimal interruption to your normal management duties, but it is a non-negotiable for all managers that they will complete a people asset review on every one of their direct reports on a monthly basis.

OUTCOME REQUIRED

Monthly review of skill, ability, and attitude of all team

Forces focus on performance and potential of individuals

Identifies ‘gifted and talented’ in a structured way

Will allow us to identify future leaders and assist in the process of promotion

Promotes mentoring and coaching on managing performance issues with Team

Gains agreement, and removes any confusion or misunderstandings between direct manager and their line manager in regards to the performance and potential of individuals.

Drives team leader to manage better people outcomes and performance

Provides a measure of both the leader and the teams relentless march forward, i.e. have we improved

THE STEPS TO CONDUCT A MONTHLY PEOPLE ASSET REVIEW

Step 1 – Completing an evaluation

The first stage of the people asset review is to complete an evaluation form on each of your direct reports.  The evaluations are based on two criteria, potential and performance.  To accompany the evaluation you are required to make four highlight points giving some background to your evaluation.

The evaluation and accompanying points require careful consideration when being determined.  The rules are that every person has pluses and minuses, strengths and development needs.  More information including suggestions on how to evaluate successfully is discussed later.

Step 2 – People asset review meetings

Once you have completed an evaluation on each of your direct reports, you will be required to cover these with your direct manager in a short, informal and trusting meeting.

The meeting length will be dependant on the amount of team you have reporting to you and the amount of detail required for each report based on their evaluation.  Remember that some reports will require more time and others less.  Most of the discussion time at this meeting will be spent on each reports development needs, whether they can be improved upon and their future potential.  Generally, you should allow no more than1hour for the entire meeting with your line manager eg 5minutes might be spent discussing one report that has not moved in the grid and is achieving at a high level, while 15minutes may be spent on another report that has dropped in the grid.

Step 3 – After action

You are not required to meet with and directly discuss the process or the evaluation with each of your direct reports. The scoring grid can be kept confidential from your direct reports should you wish, however open and honest discussions are encouraged.

Remember, the purpose of the review is to assist in the ongoing development of your direct reports and so conversations with your team that flow on from these meetings will only benefit them, the business and yourself.

In saying this, the evaluations are in no way intended to be a secret from direct reports, so if a team member specifically asks for where they sit on the grid, then you should pass this information onto them. Denying this information if requested is detrimental to the outcome of the team review.  In a culture of accountability, open/honest communication and respect for individuals, it is inappropriate and contrary to good people culture to withhold this information.  However, you should ensure that the outcome from having this discussion with the team member is constructive.

CRITERIA FOR EVALUATING

The evaluations themselves are only as good as the criteria used for ranking.

The criteria used to complete an evaluation rely heavily on our current objectives as well as our critical initiatives (core values) such as, customer focus and teamwork.  The rating that team are given determines their level of overall current achievement.  This rating adds clarity to the action required after review.