SOURCE: People Asset Review (PAR) - Monthly Process Overview.doc
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.06 HFT - PARS
TOPIC: Employee Performance Evaluation
SUMMARY: This document outlines the process for conducting monthly employee performance reviews, focusing on evaluating potential and performance.
KEYWORDS: performance evaluation, potential assessment, employee review, performance review, employee development
---

The criteria used to complete an evaluation rely heavily on our current objectives as well as our critical initiatives (core values) such as, customer focus and teamwork.  The rating that team are given determines their level of overall current achievement.  This rating adds clarity to the action required after review.

You will be evaluating team members in two areas, one potential and the other performance.  Each of these has three scoring levels.  The simplest way to complete an evaluation is to first review the team member’s potential, scoring them at a Low, Medium or High Level.  Once done, move onto an evaluation of their performance, which is also rated Low, Medium or High.  Once you have these two individual scores, you will be able to plot the overall evaluation on the 9-space grid, simply by combining the two levels.

DETERMINING HIGHLIGHT POINTS

For each team member, 4 quick highlight points (one line) are required – these 4 points are made up from a combination of strengths (+) and development needs (-) dependant on the rating achieved.

Highlight comments should be objective and specific rather than subjective and general.  Whenever possible, use quantitative examples, which can be expressed in numerical terms using figures, percentages or amounts.  E.g. preferable to state “exceeded sales budget by 5%” rather than “exceeded sales budget”

Behind this summary, there can be back up details of accomplishments and development needs, their past review, etc.

THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN POTENTIAL AND PERFORMANCE

Evaluating Potential

Seek to identify your direct reports true motivations toward work and the opportunity to grow with the business

Evaluating Performance – review achievement of current objectives, critical initiatives (core values) and key performance indicators

THE GRID

Best

GUIDELINES FOR SUCCESSFUL EVALUATIONS

To ensure you rate objectively, you can improve the accuracy of your evaluations by recognising the following factors that undermine evaluations.

The Halo or Devil Effect – To generalise and rate good or bad on all characteristics based on an experience or knowledge involving only one dimension

Leniency Tendency – Evaluating as outstanding and to give inflated ratings rather than true assessments of performance

Strictness Tendency – The opposite of leniency tendency; that is, a bias toward rating at the low end of the scale and a tendency to be overly demanding or critical

Average Tendency – To evaluate as average regardless of major differences in performance.

MISTAKES MANAGERS MAKE WHEN EVALUATING

Mistake 1 – Spending more time on evaluating, than performance planning and ongoing performance communication.  Conducting a successful evaluation is more than just filling out the grid and meeting with your manager to discuss.  What goes on with your direct report before you fill out the form is critical to getting the results you are looking for.

Evaluating is the end of a process that goes on daily – a process that is based on good communication between manger and employee.  More time should be spent preventing performance problems and rewarding good performance than evaluating at the end of the month.  Good daily leadership makes evaluating your people easy and comfortable to do because there are no surprises.

Mistake 2 – Forgetting that the evaluation is about improvement, not blame or focusing on the negative.  We do evaluations to improve performance.  Managers who forget this end up developing team who don’t trust them or don’t feel encouraged to do their best.  That’s because focusing on the negative or blaming is pointless and doesn’t help anyone.

Mistake 3 – Believing they are in a position to accurately assess employees.  Managers delude themselves into believing they can assess employee performance, even if they hardly see them actually performing their jobs, or the results of their jobs.  This asset review has been designed so that every manager evaluates their own direct reports and no one more.

Mistake 4 – Thinking all employees and all jobs should be assessed in exactly the same way.  Employees and the jobs they perform are all different.  An Assistant Store Manager will be assessed using different criteria than a Store Part-time Team Member.  It is important to remain focused on the achievements of the individual you are evaluating, their current objectives, their critical initiatives and key performance indicators.