SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Operational Efficiency and Scalability
SUMMARY: The text discusses P&G's efforts to quantify and leverage the benefits of scale to improve overhead efficiency across its businesses and functions.
KEYWORDS: overhead efficiency, scale advantages, operational optimization, corporate strategy, business transformation
---

Moeller and Daley also looked carefully at that bane of cor-

porate life: overhead. “We had always benchmarked ourselves to

competition,” Moeller recalls, “to understand whether we were

efficient or inefficient on a relative basis in terms of overhead

spent. It was always a straight math comparison. Clayt said, ‘Wait

a minute. To the extent that we’re effectively scaling ourselves, we

should have a lower overhead cost as a percentage of our sales.’” In

other words, if there was a scale advantage at work, P&G’s over-

head should be significantly lower than the competition’s.

Daley wanted a way to better quantify the benefits of scale to

overhead efficiency. Moeller continues: “We struggled for a year or

two to put together some modeling on what benefit we should see

from category scale, company scale, country scale, so that we could

hold ourselves accountable to a standard of overhead efficiency

that was truly reflective of our scale.” Because scale was a critical

core competency, it was necessary to build supporting systems and

to measure it in meaningful, impactful ways. It wasn’t enough to

merely say that scale was important.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 146 11/6/12 8:20 PM

Manage What Matters 147

P&G has created measurable cost advantages in several of

its businesses (including laundry, fine fragrances, feminine care,

and GBS). But it hasn’t quite realized Daley’s desire to have

lower-than-average overhead as a percentage of sales across

all the businesses, functions, and geographies. “That’s still a

journey that we’re on,” Moeller explains. “We’ve done a good

job with the conceptual understanding and the modeling. But

through that work, I think we did a decent job of getting inten-

tional about creating scale.” The company made changes in areas

as diverse as manufacturing and currency hedging to better sup-

port corporate scale and to deliver the benefits of that scale to

the business units.

“It’s not enough to build scale for a brand or category,”

Moeller observes. “You have to integrate that into the company.

The processes that you put in place to do that, they have to be very

deliberate. It doesn’t happen by itself. What happens [naturally] is

entropy. You have to leverage scale in a way that doesn’t disable

entrepreneurialism, business ownership. It’s integrative. It’s not

centralized. Centralized is a very different thing. This scale work

is bringing the leaders of the businesses to work together towards

a plan that not only optimizes the company, but in its best form,

optimizes their category as well. As we approach a market, for

instance, with multiple categories, the chance for success for each

of them increases.” Going into a new emerging market with several

complementary categories, rather than just one, for instance, can

enable cost sharing and increase local influence, thereby increasing

the chance of success in the region.

Brand building, too, was a capability P&G needed to build

systems to support. Though brand building had been the heart

of business for more than a century, as late as 2000, the com-

pany did a poor job of capturing, cataloging, and systematically

learning from brand and marketing successes and failures. Most

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 147 11/6/12 8:20 PM

148 Playing to Win

institutional knowledge on brand building and marketing was

either captured in pithy one-page memos by legendary chief mar-

keting officers (like Ed Lotspeich or Bob Goldstein) or passed

down in anecdotal storytelling by marketing masters and com-

pany leaders who had lived through the experience. The implicit

message was that if young brand managers and assistant brand

managers hung around seasoned brand builders long enough,

these less experienced managers would master branding and mar-

keting in due course.

So, the company launched a project to codify P&G’s

approach to brand building for the first time. Deb Henretta, then

general manager of laundry, was the executive sponsor, and the

team comprised three outstanding marketing experts: Lisa Hill-

enbrand, Leonora Polonsky, and Rad Ewing. Their work led

to the creation of P&G’s brand-building framework (BBF) 1.0,

which explained P&G’s approach to brand building in one coher-

ent document for the first time. In 2003, the team updated the

framework and released BBF 2.0 to the organization, followed

by BBF 3.0 in 2006 and BBF 4.0 in 2012. Each version was an

enhancement over the prior one in comprehensiveness, clarity,

and actionability. Now, with the BBF frameworks in place, new

marketers can learn the trade more quickly and senior managers

have an organized and written resource to guide their efforts.

The BBF and its subsequent refinements serve as a management

system that nurtures and enhances the critical brand-building

capacity of P&G.

We encouraged the design of systems in support of P&G’s

company capabilities, which were leveraged across all levels of the

organization. But we also encouraged categories and brands to

build systems to support the winning capabilities that were unique

to their industry. These systems would prove to be decisive in

some cases. Consider SK-II, P&G’s super-premium skin-care line.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 148 11/6/12 8:20 PM

Manage What Matters 149

Though SK-II looks at first like a tenuous fit with the corporate

where-to-play and how-to-win choices, it serves as an important

advance guard in beauty care. What P&G learns from competing

in this super-high-end segment is so valuable to the rest of the cat-

egory that the company is willing to build distinctive capabilities

and systems to support it. Because the brand generates extremely

high gross margins, P&G can afford to invest in those unique capa-

bilities. SK-II offers a range of skin-care products at the very top of