SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: New Product Development for Emerging Markets
SUMMARY: Gillette team travels to India to understand local consumer needs and design a new razor tailored to the Indian market.
KEYWORDS: product innovation, emerging markets, consumer research
---

design-from-scratch innovation for emerging markets, with a

focus, in this case, on India. The group included, he says, “scien-

tists from the Reading Technical Centre in the UK, our upstream

innovation lab outside of London, scientists from Boston, market-

ing people, and market-research people, all together for a three-

day session to start mapping out the work.”

Bergh’s direction to the team was simple: “The first thing

I want you to do is to spend two weeks in India. I want you to

live with these consumers. I want you to go into their homes. You

need to understand how they shave and how shaving fits into their

lives.” One of Gillette’s senior scientists, a research fellow from the

Reading lab, was, according to Bergh, both highly respected and

conceptually brilliant. Bergh says the scientist wasn’t convinced:

“He raised his hand, kind of sheepishly, and said, ‘Chip, why do

we have to go to India? We have a lot of Indian men who live right

outside of our door in Reading. Why can’t we just recruit them?’”

Why indeed? Yet Bergh was convinced that going to India was

the right things to do. His experiences told him it would be neces-

sary to engage with real Indian consumers on the ground in the

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 109 11/7/12 1:18 AM

110 Playing to Win

actual Indian market. So he sent the team to India. He was grati-

fied by the result: the same scientist sought him out a few months

later during an innovation review. Bergh recalls the man’s words:

“‘Now I completely get it,’ he said, ‘You can look at pictures in

the books, you can hear the stories, but it’s not until you’re there

[that you understand]. I spent three days with this one guy, shop-

ping with him, going to the barber shop with him, watching him

shave. Now I really understand the company’s statement of pur-

pose about improving consumers’ lives . . . I was so motivated and

so inspired, I designed the first razor on a napkin flying back to

London.” The man, Bergh says, had tears in his eyes as he told the

story.

Only in India did the scientist really begin to understand the

needs of the Indian consumer. He learned what he could not learn

inside his lab or from consumer testing outside London. Typically,

razors are designed and tested with the assumption that everyone

shaves as people do in the West, with reliable access to a large sink

and running hot water. In India, the team members saw that this

simply wasn’t true. Many of the men they met shaved with only

a small cup of cold water. Without hot running water to clean the

razor, small hairs tend to clog the blade, making shaving far more

difficult. Gillette’s new product would take that unique challenge

into account. It would be a new kind of razor, custom-built to

meet the needs of consumers in India. The Gillette Guard razor,

as it came to be called (and which bore a close resemblance to the

one first sketched on that napkin), has a single-blade system with

a safety comb designed to prevent nicks and an easy-rinse car-

tridge.5 The razor costs 15 rupees, or $0.34, and uses blades that

cost 5 rupees, or $0.11, to replace.6 By contrast, the top-end Gil-

lette Fusion Pro-Glide is sold for $10.99 in the United States,

with replacement blade cartridges at about $3 each.7 Within three

months, the Guard was the best-selling razor in India, winning

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 110 11/7/12 1:18 AM

Play to Your Strengths 111

through a set of capabilities in innovation and consumer under-

standing that had to be cultivated, rather than left to chance. By

engaging directly with the Indian consumer, by treating that con-

sumer as the boss, the Gillette team was able to understand what he

values and what he experiences.

For chief information officer Passerini, the capabilities required to

make the Gillette acquisition a success looked a little different. For

him and his team, the whole undertaking was in large part a sys-

tems-integration challenge. They had to integrate two massive busi-

nesses, with two very different IT systems, without missing a beat.

“We integrated Gillette in fifteen months,” he says, with just a hint

of pride in his voice. “That was worth $4 million per day, doing it in

fifteen months instead of doing it in the usual three to four years.”8

The accomplishment required that Passerini apply P&G’s capabili-

ties to his own IT infrastructures—thinking about scale and innova-

tion in a new way. Passerini set about innovating his team structures,

his partnership models, indeed his whole business, to take advantage

of scale rather than be trapped by it. He created a flow-to-the-work

model whereby most of his organization had project-based rather

than permanent assignments. This structure enabled his massive IT

team to be nimble and innovative, efficient and effective. The team

members had the skills needed to integrate the systems; Passerini

created a structure that supported them in doing so.

In determining whether to make the acquisition, we thought

long and hard about how Gillette’s strategy would fit with P&G’s.

We wanted to determine whether there could be a real strategy

for the combined business, a clear plan to win. We saw cultural

compatibility between the two companies: they shared the same

aspirations to win and core values. We also believed that P&G and

Gillette could work productively together and that the business

and external work systems could be fully integrated in a relatively

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact