SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of implementing a new strategy review process at P&G, which led to a shift in the quality and utility of strategy discussions across the organization.
KEYWORDS: strategy review, organizational change, strategic dialogue, assertive inquiry, strategic capabilities
---

in the way. If I am the president of the business and I’m

sitting across from A.G. and his lieutenants, I am not going

to make myself vulnerable by saying, “Hey, here are the

four things we looked at. This is what we think we should

do, but what do you think?” A.G. was very engaged at

the strategy-creation level, but the most value I got from

him was in one-on-one, more intimate settings, rather than

the kind of formal, annual forums when you have a big

audience and a big group of people.3

These concerns show how difficult it can be to make a whole-

sale shift. Yet, concerns notwithstanding, there was a distinct shift

in the quality and utility of the strategy review meetings within a

couple of cycles. By 2005, the new approach to strategy reviews

was so ingrained and viewed by the majority as so superior to the

prior system that it would have been inconceivable to go back.

The strategy dialogue went on at all levels of the organization,

returning again and again to choices of where to play, how to win,

competitive core capabilities, and management systems. Presi-

dents had to submit a monthly letter directly to the CEO and had

a monthly or (at minimum) quarterly meeting, either in person or

on the phone. The ongoing discussion helped keep the strategy on

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 135 11/6/12 8:20 PM

136 Playing to Win

track and helped give the CEO insights into the strategic capabili-

ties of his leaders. In the regular one-on-one meetings, the first part

of the agenda belonged to the president. The strongest presidents

leveraged the time to tackle real issues and collaborate on the

answers, rather than for show and tell.

New Norms for Dialogue

In any conversation, organizational or otherwise, people tend

to overuse one particular rhetorical tool at the expense of all

the others. People’s default mode of communication tends to be

advocacy—argumentation in favor or their own conclusions and

theories, statements about the truth of their own point of view. To

create the kind of strategy dialogue we wanted at P&G, people had

to shift from that approach to a very different one.

The kind of dialogue we wanted to foster is called assertive

inquiry. Built on the work of organizational learning theorist

Chris Argyris at Harvard Business School, this approach blends

the explicit expression of your own thinking (advocacy) with a

sincere exploration of the thinking of others (inquiry). In other

words, it means clearly articulating your own ideas and sharing the

data and reasoning behind them, while genuinely inquiring into

the thoughts and reasoning of your peers.

To do this effectively, individuals need to embrace a particu-

lar stance about their role in a discussion. The stance we tried to

instill at P&G was a reasonably straightforward but traditionally

underused one: “I have a view worth hearing, but I may be missing

something.” It sounds simple, but this stance has a dramatic effect

on group behavior if everyone in the room holds it. Individuals

try to explain their own thinking—because they do have a view

worth hearing. So, they advocate as clearly as possible for their

own perspective. But because they remain open to the p ossibility

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 136 11/6/12 8:20 PM

Manage What Matters 137

that they may be missing something, two very important things

happen. One, they advocate their view as a possibility, not as the

single right answer. Two, they listen carefully and ask questions

about alternative views. Why? Because, if they might be missing

something, the best way to explore that possibility is to understand

not what others see, but what they do not.

Contrast this to managers who come into the room with the

objective of convincing others they are right. They will advocate

their position in the strongest possible terms, seeking to convince

others and to win the argument. They will be less inclined to listen,

or they will listen with the intent of finding flaws in other argu-

ments. Such a stance is a recipe for discord and impasse.

We wanted to open dialogue and increase understanding through

a balance of advocacy and inquiry. This approach includes three

key tools: (1) advocating your own position and then inviting

responses (e.g., “This is how I see the situation, and why; to what

extent do you see it differently?”); (2) paraphrasing what you

believe to be the other person’s view and inquiring as to the validity

of your understanding (e.g., “It sounds to me like your argument is

this; to what extent does that capture your argument accurately?”);

and (3) explaining a gap in your understanding of the other person’s

views, and asking for more information (e.g., “It sounds like you

think this acquisition is a bad idea. I’m not sure I understand how

you got there. Could you tell me more?”). These kinds of phrases,

which blend advocacy and inquiry, can have a powerful effect on

the group dynamic. While it may feel more forceful to advocate,

advocacy is actually a weaker move than balancing advocacy and

inquiry. Inquiry leads the other person to genuinely reflect and

hear your advocacy rather than ignoring it and making their own

advocacy in response.

We actively fostered this approach to communication at P&G,

encouraging dialogue in the strategy review sessions, in one-o n-one

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 137 11/6/12 8:20 PM

138 Playing to Win

meetings, and all the way to the boardroom. The goal was to cre-