SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategy Development
SUMMARY: This book provides insights and practical tools for developing effective business strategy, drawing on the experiences of Procter & Gamble's turnaround under CEO A.G. Lafley and his collaboration with strategy expert Roger Martin.
KEYWORDS: business strategy, strategic framework, Procter & Gamble, A.G. Lafley, Roger Martin
---

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright.

Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Praise for Playing to Win

“Reading Playing to Win is like having prime seats at the Super

Bowl of strategy. You’ll learn the strategies consumer goods pow-

erhouse Procter & Gamble uses to get its innovative products into

millions of homes—plus tested methods for winning your own

marketplace contests. If you’re a marketer or a leader, you need to

read this book.”

—Daniel H. Pink, author, Drive and A Whole New Mind

“This is the best book on strategy I have ever read. Lafley and

Martin get to the heart of what’s important: how to make choices in

order to control events rather than allowing events to control your

choices. Everyone wants to win; this book sets down with calm

authority the steps you must take to turn aspiration into reality.”

—Sir Terry Leahy, former CEO, Tesco

“Lafley and Martin teach us how to develop and then how to deploy

strategy. Their recommendations apply at every level—c orporation,

business units, products, and teams. This is a great book.”

—Clayton M. Christensen, Kim B. Clark Professor of

Business Administration, Harvard Business School;

author, The Innovator’s Dilemma

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

FM.indd 1 11/6/12 8:07 PM

“Most authors conduct research before they write a book. Lafley

and Martin went out and did something. They used their simple,

subtle framework—Where will we play? How will we win?—to

double the value of one of the world’s greatest businesses. And

now they’re showing you how to do the same. Read this book. . .

before your competitors find it.”

—Chip Heath, coauthor, Decisive: How to Make Better

Choices in Life and Work

“Playing to Win is a rare combination of depth of thinking and ease

of use. It clearly explains what business strategy is and isn’t, and

how to develop it. Lafley and Martin distill their hard-won expe-

riences and offer insights, practical hands-on tools, and tips that

will inspire and allow you to think strategically in new ways about

your own business.”

—Jørgen Vig Knudstorp, CEO, Lego Group

“A great CEO and a renowned educator join forces to create a

must-read for anyone thinking about strategy.”

—Jack Welch, former Chairman and CEO, General Electric

“Here is business strategy through the eyes of the man who led

Procter & Gamble’s stunning turnaround and success in the

2000s and the strategist who advised and worked with him. Lush

with insights that show the ‘what’ and the ‘how’ of two master

strategists.”

—Scott Cook, cofounder and Chairman

of the Executive Committee, Intuit

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

FM.indd 2 11/6/12 8:07 PM

“Lafley and Martin have invested their respective careers in

understanding the complexity of strategy. What has emerged in

this seminal work is a simple and rich framework that can help

business leaders think through strategic choices. It is an eminently

helpful guide to choice making, which is the most essential part of

leadership.”

—James P. Hackett, President and CEO, Steelcase Inc.

“Playing to Win is an insightful do-it-yourself guide that demysti-

fies what it takes to craft, implement, and continuously improve

effective business strategies. Using relevant, real-world examples,

Lafley and Martin offer proven techniques for competing and win-

ning in today’s challenging global business environment.”

—Jim McNerney, President, CEO, and Chairman, Boeing

“I love this book; it is thought provoking and acts as a catalyst to

ask questions—about ourselves and our business life course. In

a day and age when information and instant communication are

relentless components of business and our lifestyle, A.G. Lafley

and Roger Martin suggest we take an important pause to actually

question our strategic road maps and the associated plans we need

in order to succeed in this marketplace.”

—Thomas Tull, founder and CEO, Legendary Pictures

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

FM.indd 3 11/6/12 8:07 PM

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

FM.indd 4 11/6/12 8:07 PM

Playing

to

Win

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

FM.indd 1 11/6/12 8:07 PM

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

FM.indd 2 11/6/12 8:07 PM

Pl aying

to

HoW StRategy

Really WoRkS

W in

a.g. lafley

RogeR l. MaRtin

Harvard Business revieW Press

Boston, Massachusetts

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

FM.indd 3 11/6/12 8:07 PM

Find more digital content or join the discussion on www.hbr.org.

Copyright 2013 A.G. Lafley and Roger L. Martin

All rights reserved

No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in or introduced into a retrieval

system, or transmitted, in any form, or by any means (electronic, mechanical, pho-

tocopying, recording, or otherwise), without the prior permission of the publisher.

Requests for permission should be directed to permissions@hbsp.harvard.edu, or

mailed to Permissions, Harvard Business School Publishing, 60 Harvard Way, Boston,

Massachusetts 02163.

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

Lafley, A.G. (Alan G.)

Playing to win : how strategy really works / A.G. Lafley and Roger L. Martin.

p. cm.

ISBN 978-1-4221-8739-5 (alk. paper)

1. Strategic planning. 2. Success in business. 3. Organizational change. 4. Procter &