SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Market Economics
SUMMARY: The text discusses the dynamics of supply and demand, explaining how firms can be arrayed on an industry supply curve based on their variable cost of production, and how the intersection of supply and demand determines price and quantity in a commodity market.
KEYWORDS: supply and demand, industry supply curve, commodity market, variable cost of production, marginal cost
---

curves—the curve slopes downward as higher prices produce lower

demand and lower prices produce higher demand (fi gure B-1).

Structure of Supply

A similar dynamic occurs on the supply side. Each firm is willing

to produce a certain amount of output, given the prevailing price

level. That supply has costs associated with it, and the most cru-

cial type of cost for our purposes is the variable cost of producing

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_B.indd 228 11/6/12 8:17 PM

The Microeconomic Foundations of Strategy 229

Figure B-2

Construction of industry supply curve

Firm E

Price

Firm D

Firm C

Firm B

Marginal cost of

production for Firm A

Firm A

Quantity

Capacity of

Firm A

another unit of output. Some costs don’t vary with the produc-

tion of another unit—such as R&D or advertising—while other

costs increase when an additional unit is produced—such as raw

materials or direct labor. These latter costs are most important in

driving price.

Firms can be arrayed on an industry supply curve on the basis

of their variable cost of production, using the marginal cost to pro-

duce an additional item, from low to high (figure B-2). By their

very nature, supply curves are upward sloping; the lower the price

in the market, the less quantity will be produced.

Where the supply crosses the downward-sloping demand

curve, price and quantity are set by the proverbial invisible hand

(figure B-3). This is the case for all kinds of products and services.

However, the dynamics work differently in a commodity versus a

distinct or unique offering.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_B.indd 229 11/6/12 8:17 PM

230 Appendix B

Figure B-3

The intersection of supply and demand

Demand

Price Supply

P

Q

Quantity

Competition in Commodity Products and Services

In a classic commodity industry, such as gold, there are multiple

producers. Buyers see the offerings from these different producers

as essentially identical—an ounce of gold is pretty much like any

other ounce of gold. In such a market, a producer has no choice

but to accept the market price. If it prices even a little bit above

the prevailing market price, buyers will go en masse to competitors

and the producer will sell nothing. If the producer prices below the

prevailing market price, it will just be throwing away some of its

possible profit margin.

Thus, while the industry demand curve is actually downward

sloping—higher gold price will generate lower demand and lower

gold price will generate higher demand—individual producers

in the commodity market feel as if they are facing a flat demand

curve. There is no opportunity to price higher or lower to reduce

or increase demand. The price is the price. It may well fluctuate

over time, but not due to anything an individual producer does.

In such a market, relative cost position is the sole determinant

of competitiveness and profitability. Price is established at the

point at which the aggregate industry demand curve intersects with

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_B.indd 230 11/6/12 8:17 PM

The Microeconomic Foundations of Strategy 231

Figure B-4

Cost position determines competitiveness

Market

demand

Market price

Firm A’s

Price profit Firm E

margin

Firm D

Firm C

Firm B

Marginal cost of

production for Firm A

Firm A

Capacity of

Quantity

Firm A

actually sold

Quantity

the aggregate industry supply curve, and the latter is created by the

variable cost of the marginal producer. Once that price is estab-

lished, each firm earns a profit margin over and above its variable

costs, the size of which is determined by its relative cost position

(figure B-4).

In the industry in figure B-4, firms survive in this market as

long as the market price exceeds their marginal cost of produc-

tion. So, firms A, B, C, and D remain in the market, but firm E

must reduce its cost or exit. The most efficient firm, firm A, earns

healthy profits despite the intense competition. The same dynam-

ics of price-setting and profitability are at work in all commodity

industries. Pricing is bid down until the marginal player just cov-

ers its variable costs. If buyers were to attempt to bid down prices

further, firm D would go out of business and there would be an

undersupply, which would drive prices back up.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_B.indd 231 11/6/12 8:17 PM

232 Appendix B

Figure B-5

Pulp and paper

Example cost curve: North American uncoated free sheet (standard photocopier paper)

1200

Fixed costs Demand=11.5 milion metric tons

ADCC

960

Price=$US805 per metric ton

720

480

240

0

Mill A Mill B Mill C

Cumulative capacity (million metric tons)

The bars represent the various companies that make free sheet.

The tricky thing is that firms have to pay for all of their fixed

costs plus their return on investment out of the margin between

their variable costs and the market price. Figure B-5 illustrates the

impact of fixed cost on net profitability in the uncoated free sheet

(i.e., standard photocopier paper). The data is from an analysis in

the mid-1990s, but the principles remain unchanged.

In this industry, low-cost mill A has variable costs of about

$480 per metric ton. Market price is $805 per metric ton, provid-

ing a margin of $325 per metric ton. Out of that, the mill has fixed

costs to cover, which work out to about $150 per ton across its

total volume. That leaves a profit of $175 per ton for mill A.