SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Management Consulting
SUMMARY: The text discusses the development of an applied strategic management (ASM) program for P&G, which involved teaching strategy tools to the company's category-management teams.
KEYWORDS: strategic management, consulting, P&G, category management, analytical tools
---

Not long after that first attempt to put the analytical tools into

a single robust framework, I was asked to work on the applied

strategic management (ASM) program for P&G, when CEO John

Smale asked Monitor to create a program that taught P&G

category-management teams the strategy tools that we used.

Colleagues Mark Fuller, Bob Lurie, and I were responsible for cre-

ating a three-day program and then teaching it to category teams

in the four global regions. At first, I focused on advancing the

state of the art by sequencing the teaching of the various tools.

Eaton Corporation had taught me that it was hard to have a use-

ful or intelligent discussion of capabilities analysis before under-

standing what customers actually want, so we taught customer

analysis before capabilities analysis. But since all customers

aren’t the same, we had to teach industry analysis and segmenta-

tion before customer analysis—oops, that was tricky, because we

traditionally taught segmentation as part of customer analysis.

Competitor analysis was equally tricky. I put it at the end, because

I felt that competitive reaction was critically important. But of

course, some things about competitors had to be understood ear-

lier on (to analyze relative capabilities, for instance).

While it was still not a robust process for actually doing strategy,

ASM represented a significant advance over my work at Eaton Cor-

poration. The analytical tools were taught in a significantly more

organized fashion, for instance. Moreover, two very good things

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 179 11/6/12 8:21 PM

180 Playing to Win

came out of ASM. First, because P&G has such talented manag-

ers, a number of them figured out how to put the pieces together

into a true process for doing strategy. Almost a decade later, one

P&G executive pulled out of his top desk drawer a single lami-

nated sheet with his distillation of the ASM into a strategy pro-

cess, one that he used regularly to do strategy. It was a thing of

beauty! Others within P&G also used ASM principles routinely to

develop their strategies, creating the foundation of a true strat-

egy practice at P&G. Second, teaching ASM over and over (there

were about twenty categories per region to teach across four

regions) helped me better understand the real strategy ques-

tions these managers faced and how the tools did or did not

help them think about those challenges. I came to understand

how bundling a number of aspects into a single analytical tool—

for example, grouping under competitor analysis the prediction of

competitor reaction, the analysis of competitor cost structure,

and the analysis of competitor capabilities—made it difficult for

managers to apply the analysis productively.

Our work on the ASM and, subsequently, P&G’s principles of

strategic management program, continued through 1989 and

set the stage for my work at Weston Foods in 1990. A multi-

billion-dollar subsidiary of George Weston Limited, Weston Foods

had a new CEO, David Beatty, and executive vice president, Jim

Fisher, both of whom were exceedingly bright and experienced

former McKinsey consultants. A highly diversified business run

mainly by very traditional food-industry business unit presidents,

Weston Foods had rarely done any strategy at all. Planning was

primarily a financial budgeting process. To improve Weston

Foods’ middling performance, Beatty and Fisher wanted to install

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 180 11/6/12 8:21 PM

Think Through Strategy 181

modern strategic planning processes and hired me to help them

do so. The centerpiece of the work was to be an off-site meeting

to teach the business unit presidents and finance heads. At this

meeting, they would be taught a strategy framework and begin to

frame their strategic planning challenges.

I freely admit to struggling mightily before that meeting to

put onto paper the things that I had learned from Eaton, P&G,

and elsewhere. A couple days before the off-site meeting, I

finally came to a format for characterizing the thinking process

of strategy—a framework that became the logic flow. I reduced

the challenge to the key questions that needed to be answered

to formulate a where-to-play and how-to-win choice. There were

seven questions arrayed under four broad analytical categories

and organized into a flow from industry to customer to relative

position to competitor. It wasn’t entirely linear and unidirectional

in practice, of course—there are all sorts of feedback loops and

subroutines—but this new structure provided a straightforward

organization of the logical flow for thinking through strategy

choices.

Most importantly, it worked. The teams at Weston Foods, with

no strategy experience, were able to work through a process and

dramatically raise the quality of the strategy dialogue. I walked

away pleased and inspired. The logic flow, a way of thinking about

strategy, would become the foundation of my strategy consulting

practice for the next decade and beyond.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 181 11/6/12 8:21 PM

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 182 11/6/12 8:21 PM

Chapter Eight

Shorten Your Odds

I

n strategy, there are no absolute answers or sure things, and

nothing lasts forever. Having a clear definition of winning, a

robust analytical framework such as the logic flow, and a thought-

ful review process can help organize thinking and improve analy-

sis, but even still, a successful outcome is not guaranteed. In the

end, building a strategy isn’t about achieving perfection; it’s about

shortening your odds.

Generating Buy-In: The Traditional Approach

In a typical strategy process, participants seek to find the single