SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Market Positioning
SUMMARY: The text discusses how a company can strategically choose its markets, customers, channels, and product categories to gain a competitive advantage.
KEYWORDS: strategic choices, market segmentation, competitive advantage, playing field, where-to-play
---

competitive field. The questions to be asked focus on where the

company will compete—in which markets, with which customers

and consumers, in which channels, in which product categories,

and at which vertical stage or stages of the industry in question.

This set of questions is vital; no company can be all things to all

people and still win, so it is important to understand which where-

to-play choices will best enable the company to win. A firm can be

narrow or broad. It can compete in any number of demographic

segments (men ages eighteen to twenty-four, midlife urbanites,

working moms) and geographies (local, national, international,

developed world, economically fast-advancing countries like

Brazil and China). It can compete in myriad services, product lines,

and categories. It can participate in different channels (direct to

consumer, online, mass merchandise, grocery, department store).

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 20 11/6/12 8:13 PM

Strategy Is Choice 21

It can participate in the upstream part of its industry, downstream,

or be vertically integrated. These choices, when taken together,

capture the strategic playing field for the firm.

Olay made two strategically decisive where-to-play choices:

to create, with retail partners, a new masstige segment in mass

discount stores, drugstores, and grocery stores to compete with

prestige brands and to develop a new and growing point-of-entry

consumer segment for anti-aging skin-care products. Many other

where-to-play options were considered (like moving into prestige

channels and selling through department and specialty stores), but

to win, Olay’s choices on where to play needed to make sense in

light of P&G’s company-level where-to-play choices and capabili-

ties. P&G tends to do well when the consumer is highly involved

with the product category and cares a good deal about product

experience and performance. It excels with brands that promise

real improvement when the consumer puts in effort on a regular

basis, as part of a well-defined regimen. P&G also does well with

brands that can be sold through its best customers, retailers with

which it has strong relationships and with which it can create sig-

nificant shared value. So, the Olay team decided where to play with

the P&G choices and capabilities in mind.

Corporately, when it came to where to play, the company

needed to define which regions, categories, channels, and con-

sumers would give P&G a sustainable competitive advantage. The

idea was to play in those areas where P&G’s capabilities would be

decisive and to avoid areas where they were not. The concept that

helped P&G leaders sort one area from the other and to define the

strategic playing field clearly was the idea of core.

We wanted to play where P&G’s core strengths would enable

it to win. We asked which brands truly were core brands, iden-

tifying a set of brands that were clear industry or category lead-

ers and devoting resources to them disproportionately. We asked

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 21 11/6/12 8:13 PM

22 Playing to Win

what P&G’s core geographies were. With ten countries represent-

ing 85 percent of profits, P&G had to focus on winning in those

countries. We asked where consumers expected P&G brands and

products to be sold, that is, mass merchandisers and discounters,

drugstores, and grocery stores. Core became a theme in innova-

tion as well. P&G scientists determined the core technologies that

were important across the businesses and focused on those tech-

nologies above all others. We wanted to shift from a pure invention

mind-set to one of strategic innovation; the goal was innovation

that drove the core. Core consumers were a theme too; we pushed

businesses to focus on the consumer who matters most, target-

ing the most attractive consumer segments. Core was the first and

most fundamental where-to-play choice—to focus on core brands,

geographies, channels, technologies, and consumers as a platform

for growth.

The second where-to-play choice was to extend P&G’s core

into demographically advantaged and structurally more attrac-

tive categories. For example, the core was to move from fabric into

home care, from hair care into hair color and styling, and more

broadly into beauty, health, and personal care.

The third where-to-play choice—to expand into emerging

markets—was driven by demographics and economics. The major-

ity of babies would be born, and households formed, in emerging

markets. Economic growth in these markets will be as much as

four times as high as in the OECD (Organisation for Economic

Co-operation and Development) developed markets. The q uestion

was how many markets P&G could take on and in what p riority

order. The company started with China, Mexico, and Russia,

building capability and reach over time to include Brazil, India, and

others. As Chip Bergh, former group president for global groom-

ing and now CEO of Levi Strauss & Co., notes, “In 2000, about

20 percent of P&G’s total sales were in emerging markets compared

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 22 11/6/12 8:13 PM

Strategy Is Choice 23

to U nilever and Colgate, which were already up near 40 percent.

We were a company of premium-priced products, always going

after product superiority. We tended to play, as a company, in the

premium tiers in almost all categories.”6 To compete in the devel-

oping world, Bergh says, a change in orientation was required: “We

needed to begin broadening our portfolio and developing competi-

tive propositions, including cost structures that would allow us to

reach deeper into these emerging markets. There are a billion con-

sumers in India, and we were reaching the top 10 percent of them.”

Emerging markets would be an important where-to-play