SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning
SUMMARY: The text discusses key considerations for defining where a business will compete, including choosing and prioritizing specific markets, segments, and customers.
KEYWORDS: where-to-play, strategic choices, market selection, competitive landscape, capabilities
---

together—that are mutually reinforcing and that marry well with

real consumer needs. Rather than attempt to serve everyone or

simply buy a new playing field or accept your current choices as

inevitable, find a strong set of where-to-play choices. Doing so

requires deep understanding of users, the competitive landscape,

and your own capabilities. It requires imagination and effort. And

every so often, some luck doesn’t hurt.

As you work through your own choices, recall that where-

to-play choices are equally about where not to play. They take

options off the table and create true focus for the organization. But

there is no single right answer. For some companies or brands, a

narrow choice works best. For others, a broader choice fits. Or it

may be that the best option is a narrow customer choice within a

broad geographic segment (or vice versa). As with all things, con-

text matters.

The heart of strategy is the answer to two fundamental ques-

tions: where will you play, and how will you win there? The

next chapter will turn to the second question and to the mat-

ter of creating integrated choices, in which where to play and

how to win reinforce and support, rather than fight against, one

another.

Where-to-Play Dos anD Don’ts

3 Do choose where you will play and where you will not play.

Explicitly choose and prioritize choices across all relevant

where dimensions (i.e., geographies, industry segments,

consumers, customers, products, etc.).

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 72 11/6/12 8:18 PM

Where to Play 73

3 Do think long and hard before dismissing an entire indus-

try as structurally unattractive; look for attractive segments

in which you can compete and win.

3 Don’t embark on a strategy without specific where

choices. If everything is a priority, nothing is. There is no

point in trying to capture all segments. You can’t. Don’t try.

3 Do look for places to play that will enable you to attack

from unexpected directions, along the lines of least resis-

tance. Don’t attack walled cities or take on your strongest

competitors head-to-head if you can help it.

3 Don’t start wars on multiple fronts at once. Plan for your

competitors’ reactions to your initial choices, and think

multiple steps ahead. No single choice needs to last for-

ever, but it should last long enough to confer the advantage

you seek.

3 Do be honest about the allure of white space. It is tempt-

ing to be the first mover into unoccupied white space.

Unfortunately, there is only one true first mover (as there

is only one low-cost player), and all too often, the imagined

white space is already occupied by a formidable competi-

tor you just don’t see or understand.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 73 11/6/12 8:18 PM

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 74 11/6/12 8:18 PM

Chapter Four

How to Win

A

sk Jeff Weedman, P&G’s vice president of global business

development, about the technology behind Glad ForceFlex

trash bags, and it’s clear he’s an enthusiast. He pulls out a white

Kitchen Catcher bag to demonstrate, opening the bag and holding

it out to his guest.1 “Take a look at that film,” he says. “See those

patterns in there? Those patterns allow us to put a lot more stretch

into the material.”2 Weedman makes a fist and uses it to stretch a

small section of the trash bag to its limit. It stretches past his elbow

before it tears. “Because of P&G’s expertise in diapers, we know

an awful lot about how to manipulate film,” he explains. “This

uses less plastic than those thick bags, and it stretches significantly

more.” P&G-invented technology produces a plastic bag that is

both strong and stretchable, but uses considerably less material. It

means a better product for consumers, with greater capacity and

less breakage, at a lower cost for the manufacturer.

Building on quilting technology developed for paper towels,

the ForceFlex product marked a significant step forward in trash-

bag technology. It came out of P&G labs along with a sister

t echnology—a self-sealing plastic wrap. Imagine that you want to

put a leftover piece of chicken into the freezer for consumption in

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 75 11/6/12 8:19 PM

76 Playing to Win

a few days. You can wrap it in plastic wrap and hope that it doesn’t

get freezer burn through one of the many small gaps in the wrap-

ping. Or, you can place it in an expensive (on a per-use basis) zip-

top freezer bag. P&G scientists found an alternative option: take

a relatively small piece of a new, technologically advanced plastic

wrap from a package (similar to a Glad Wrap or Saran Wrap roll),

put the chicken on top, fold the material over the chicken, press

gently with your finger around the chicken, and—presto—you

have a hermetically sealed pouch ready for the fridge or freezer.

The two new technologies were sufficiently exciting that P&G

management agreed to test-market, starting with the sealing food

wrap (branded Impress). It was arguably the less compelling of

the two concepts: self-sealing plastic wrap offered a new benefit

that might or might not be of interest to consumers, while an ultra-

strong garbage bag solved a well-documented frustration for con-

sumers (garbage bags that leak and tear). Nonetheless, Impress was

the starting point.

Test-market consumers loved Impress. It shot to a more than

25 percent share almost immediately, at a 30 percent price premium