SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning and Execution
SUMMARY: This text discusses how CEOs can maintain an external focus by leveraging external advisers, the board of directors, and strategic consultants to inform business strategy and decision-making.
KEYWORDS: strategic planning, external focus, business strategy, board of directors, strategic consultants
---

ing the meaningful outside into winning strategies for the busi-

ness and the organization. This means choosing what business

or businesses to be in and which to exit, to shut down, or not

to enter. This means balancing the delivery of an acceptable

return from current businesses and investing in businesses that

will ensure steady growth and a strong return in the future. This

means setting the standards for how an organization will behave

and setting the bar high for performance. In contrast to the CEO,

most company employees are more inward-focused. The content

of their work and the nature of their working relationships inevi-

tably draw their attention inside the company. The CEO may well

be tempted to turn his or her attention inward as well, but con-

sciously choosing a very few external advisers and counselors

can help a CEO maintain and sustain that all-important external

focus.

The board of directors is one important resource on this front.

P&G added annual in-depth assessments of the overall company

strategy to the board agenda. An entire meeting was dedicated

to strategy, with the intent of tapping into the broad and varied

experiences of outside directors and drawing on their individual

and collective judgment and wisdom. The board brought expe-

rience and perspective from outside the consumer packaged

goods industry. It brought a mix of domain and discipline experi-

ence, along with a level of objectivity and skepticism that added

real value.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 206 11/6/12 8:22 PM

Shorten Your Odds 207

P&G engaged outside strategic consultants selectively. Most

of the strategic analysis and strategy creation for businesses

the company knew and understood was done in-house. Never-

theless, P&G would sometimes engage outside strategy consul-

tants to help it with a specific opportunity. McKinsey did some

important strategic work with the company during P&G’s due

diligence on Gillette. P&G needed to maintain absolute confi-

dentiality and wanted a partner that could confirm or deny the

company’s critical hypotheses and objectively assess strategic

assumptions. Strategy consultants helped P&G explore indus-

tries it was considering entering. For instance, the company

commissioned a broad and deep assessment of the health-care

industry to help clarify where P&G might play with competitive

advantage. P&G commissioned studies of certain service sec-

tors and of franchising business models. It also commissioned

studies of specific capabilities—for example, global business

services, purchasing, or strategic revenue management—to

ascertain how P&G’s capabilities stacked up against best-in-

class global competitors. Most of these strategic studies were

commissioned by the businesses or functions; only a very few

were commissioned by the company.

Yet, one of the most important decisions I made was to ask

Roger Martin to become my strategy alter ego and partner.

I wanted someone outside P&G with whom I could talk about

strategy on an ongoing basis—anytime, anywhere. I wanted an

outsider who understood P&G and could masterfully work the

company’s internal informal network to help me get important

strategic things done. Importantly, I wanted someone without

an agenda (at least, without an inside P&G political agenda).

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 207 11/6/12 8:22 PM

208 Playing to Win

I needed someone whom I could trust implicitly and who could

trust me—someone I could work with informally and in complete

confidence, someone with intellectual integrity to go with moral

integrity, emotional intelligence to go with IQ, and the courage to

tell the emperor when he was wearing no clothes.

When I became CEO, Roger and I would set aside a day at a

time, a day we could get away from our calendars, e-mails, and

BlackBerries, and devote ourselves to strategic issues—of his

or my choosing. We kept a running list of strategic choices to be

made and worked through them to resolution. Some were dis-

patched in a single meeting. Others were tackled several times

before succumbing. Still others stayed (and some remain) open

issues.

Roger and I were determined to put a robust strategic pro-

cess in place throughout P&G—the process Roger had honed

at Monitor and simplified and customized to suit P&G. I invited

Roger to P&G’s first board of directors strategy review, where

he patiently walked the outside directors through the strategic

methodology that he and I had worked out. We wanted the direc-

tors to understand that our integrated set of choices approach

centered on where to play and how to win. From that day on,

every time P&G leaders talked or wrote about company or busi-

ness unit strategies, they were described in terms of winning

aspirations, where-to-play and how-to-win choices, core capabili-

ties, and management systems.

Roger had an open invitation to attend the strategy reviews

and would attend several every year. He had anytime access to

me (and I to him). More importantly, he built strong relationships

with most of the business and functional leaders. I encouraged

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 208 11/6/12 8:22 PM

Shorten Your Odds 209

P&G leaders to work on strategic issues and questions directly with

Roger or with me in real time. Roger adeptly worked these infor-

mal networks to help move business leaders and their businesses

ahead strategically. I would sometimes “donate” an hour or two of

my time with Roger to one of the functions or the businesses. The

strategic ball advanced quite a bit in one-to-one meetings between

the presidents and Roger, or between the presidents and me. I met

with every president every month initially (every quarter by year ten)

to work on strategy, leadership, and personnel issues. The presi-

dents and I addressed a joint agenda collaboratively.