SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Microeconomics of Industry Competition
SUMMARY: The text analyzes the dynamics of competition in an industry, where new low-cost entrants can push down prices and make it difficult for higher-cost producers to remain profitable.
KEYWORDS: industry competition, cost structures, pricing dynamics, new entrants, profitability
---

ing a margin of $325 per metric ton. Out of that, the mill has fixed

costs to cover, which work out to about $150 per ton across its

total volume. That leaves a profit of $175 per ton for mill A.

Mill B also has variable costs that leave a substantial margin

between costs and price, but in its case, its fixed costs (which are

spread across lower output, as indicated by the width of the bar)

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_B.indd 232 11/6/12 8:17 PM

)not

cirtem

rep

SU$(

CCDA

The Microeconomic Foundations of Strategy 233

take up the entire margin; mill B barely breaks even at the end of

the year. However, since the mill would have those fixed costs at

least for the medium term even if it stopped producing, it is better

for mill B to continue to produce paper, earning a margin that goes

toward paying those fixed costs. The owners of mill B rail against

the irrational dynamics of the industry, arguing that the industry

has pricing levels too low for a producer to make a decent return

on capital. Unfortunately for mill B, it is quite possible to make

a good profit in the business, but only if you are in the bottom

portion of the variable-cost curve.

In a still worse position is tiny mill C. Its variable costs are high

but below the price level. Unfortunately, its fixed costs per ton are

so high that at the end of the year, it shows a substantial loss. Mill

C stays in business, hoping that demand rises and shifts the demand

curve out to cross the supply curve at the right side of the chart, which

would push mill C into a profit (and mill A into obscene profits).

Sadly, demand rarely rises in the way that mill C hopes.

Instead, what typically happens is that new entrants look at com-

petitors like mill A, see the money to be made in the industry, and

then figure out a way to enter with even lower costs than those

incurred by mill A. These new entrants analyze everything mill A

does and then do it a bit better, investing higher levels of capital

to produce a low-cost position. The entry of a new low-cost firm

(firm Z in figure B-6) pushes the entire supply curve to the right,

causing the demand curve to cross the supply curve at a lower price

and the price to fall for all players.

Whereas firm D used to be breakeven on variable costs, it is now

substantially in the hole before fixed costs. Firm C is now break-

even on a variable-cost basis. In the US scheduled air travel market,

firm Z is Southwest Airlines, whose entry and growth has made it

increasingly rough for all the traditional carriers, which argue that

the market is irrational. Actually, the market is utterly rational.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_B.indd 233 11/6/12 8:17 PM

234 Appendix B

Figure B-6

evolution of commodity markets

Market

demand

Old

market

price

New

market Firm E

price

Firm D

Firm C

Firm B

Firm A

Firm Z

New entrant

Old quantity New quantity

actually sold actually sold

Quantity

This is what happens to commodities across the world. A

new low-cost entry drives down the prices—whether by way

of fast-growing Southern Hemisphere eucalyptus in pulp and

paper or cheap Peruvian mines in nickel. Though some com-

mentators argue that commodity prices are rising, these prices

have fallen consistently over the past two hundred years on a

real-price basis. Figure B-7 shows the real price of a basket of

commodities (sized based on the world consumption propor-

tions of these commodities) from 1801 to 1999. While there

have been dramatic upticks, the long-term trend is unmistakably

downward.

This doesn’t mean that competing in a commodity business is

bad. It just means that if you do, you need to be at the bottom of

the variable-cost curve or you won’t have much fun!

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_B.indd 234 11/6/12 8:17 PM

ecirP

The Microeconomic Foundations of Strategy 235

Figure B-7

Falling commodity prices

Commodity price index in real US dollars, 1801–1999.

160

140

120

100

80

60

40

20

0

1800 1820 1840 1860 1880 1900 1920 1940 1960 1980 2000

Source: BMO Capital Markets Economic Research.

Index of 180 = 100.

Competition in a Unique Product or Service

When a firm offers a product or service that buyers consider unique,

the pricing and profit dynamics are quite different. The firm provid-

ing the unique offering is a price-setter, not a price-taker; the demand

for the unique offering depends upon the price the firm sets—the

higher the price, the lower the demand and vice versa. But this time,

because the producer of a unique offering serves the entire market, the

firm feels the shift in demand directly. Unlike in a commodity busi-

ness, here price setting is one of the producer’s most important choices.

In a differentiated offering, there is an optimal price: the price

at which the marginal revenue is equal to the marginal cost to the

producer. The marginal-revenue curve falls faster than the demand

curve because the firm needs to drop the price to all customers, not

just the marginal customer, when pursuing incremental demand.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_B.indd 235 11/6/12 8:17 PM

236 Appendix B

Figure B-8

Maximizing profit from a unique product

Demand

(price)

Profit maximizing