SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Business Decisions
SUMMARY: The text discusses how to make strategic choices about where to play and how to win, emphasizing the importance of considering these choices together.
KEYWORDS: strategic choices, where to play, how to win, cost leadership, differentiation
---

Ch04.indd 95 11/6/12 8:19 PM

96 Playing to Win

on, to find a smart playing field. How-to-win choices determine

what you will do on that playing field. Because contexts, like com-

petitive dynamics and company capabilities, differ greatly, there

is no single, simple taxonomy of how-to-win choices. At a high

level, the choice is whether to be the low-cost player or a differ-

entiator. But the how of each strategy will differ by context. Cost

leaders can create advantage at many different points—sourcing,

design, production, distribution, and so on. Differentiators can

create a strong price premium on brand, on quality, on a particular

kind of service, and so forth. Remember that there is no one single

how-to-win choice for all companies. Even in a single market, it is

possible to compete in many different ways and succeed. Choos-

ing a how-to-win approach is a matter of thinking both broadly

and deeply, in the context of the playing fields available to the

company.

Action consistent with the how-to-win choice is vital. Cost

leadership and differentiation have different imperatives that

should lead to different sets of activities within a firm. Structur-

ing a company to compete as a cost leader requires an obsessive

focus on pushing costs out of the system, such that standardization

and systemization become core drivers of value. Anything that

requires a distinctive approach is likely to add cost and should be

eliminated. In a differentiation strategy, costs still matter, but are

not the focus of the company; customers are. The most important

question is how to delight customers in a distinctive way that pro-

duces greater willingness to pay.

Where to play and how to win are not independent variables.

The best strategies have mutually reinforcing choices at their

heart. As a result, it is not a matter of choosing where to play and

then how to win and then moving on. Though we have placed

these two choices in separate chapters for the sake of clarity, they

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 96 11/6/12 8:19 PM

How to Win 97

are intertwined and should be considered together: what how-to-

win choices make sense with which where-to-play choices? And

which combination makes the most sense for your organization?

From there, the next step is to understand the capabilities that

will be required to support the where-to-play and how-to-win

choices.

How-to-win Dos anD Don’ts

3 Do work to create new how-to-win choices where none

currently exist. Just because there isn’t an obvious how-

to-win choice given your current structure doesn’t mean it

is impossible to create one (and worth it, if the prize is big

enough).

3 But don’t kid yourself either. If, after lots of searching, you

can’t create a credible how-to-win choice, find a new play-

ing field or get out of the game.

3 Do consider how to win in concert with where to play. The

choices should be mutually reinforcing, creating a strong

strategic core for the company.

3 Don’t assume that the dynamics of an industry are set

and immutable. The choices of the players within those

industries may be creating the dynamics. Industry dynam-

ics might be changeable.

3 Don’t reserve questions of where to play and how to win

for only customer-facing functions. Internal and support

functions can and should be making these choices too.

3 Do set the rules of the game and play the game better

if you’re winning. Change the rules of the game if you’re

not.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 97 11/6/12 8:19 PM

98 Playing to Win

PamPers: P&G’s sinGle most imPortant

strateGic lesson

by A.G. Lafley

Back in the late 1950s, a P&G chemist named Vic Mills had a

profound dislike for cleaning his grandson’s cloth diapers; he

was convinced there had to be a better way and began studying

the nascent disposable-diaper product segment, which then rep-

resented less than 1 percent of the billions of diaper changes in

the United States every year.

After studying first-generation disposable baby diapers from

around the world, and after several designs failed in premar-

ket consumer tests, P&G tested a three-layer, rectangular pad

design (a plastic back sheet, absorbent wadding material, and

water-repellent top sheet) in Peoria, Illinois, in December 1961.

It failed too. Mothers liked the disposable diaper product, but

the $0.10-per-diaper price was too high. After another six market

tests, further refinements in design and engineering, and the

development of an entirely new manufacturing process, P&G

finally had a success—this time at $0.06 a diaper.

The company launched the new diaper as Pampers.a Through-

out the rest of the 1960s and the 1970s, Pampers built sig-

nificant unit volume and dollar sales by converting cloth-diaper

users to disposables users. P&G effectively created a new cat-

egory and easily won a leading share in it. Looking back, the

Pampers story is a great example of strategic insight and vision.

A better product fulfilled an unmet consumer need, delivered a

better user experience, and created better total consumer value.

In Peter Drucker’s terms, Pampers disposable baby diapers “cre-

ated customers” and served them better than competitors did.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 98 11/6/12 8:19 PM

How to Win 99

By the mid-1970s, Pampers had achieved a 75 percent share in

the United States and had been expanded to about seventy-five

countries worldwide.

Imagine what Pampers could have become, then, had P&G

chosen a different strategy in 1976. That’s when it introduced a

second diaper brand, Luvs, which featured an hourglass-shaped

pad with elastic gathers. Luvs delivered superior fit, absorbency,