SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Product Pricing Strategy
SUMMARY: This text discusses the two fundamental ways for a firm to win: offering a similar or unique product, and the corresponding strategies of cost leadership or price premium.
KEYWORDS: product differentiation, pricing strategy, cost leadership, price premium
---

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_B.indd 235 11/6/12 8:17 PM

236 Appendix B

Figure B-8

Maximizing profit from a unique product

Demand

(price)

Profit maximizing

Price price and quantity

per

unit

Marginal

cost

Marginal

revenue

Quantity

Demand Price

Total too low too low

profit

Quantity

As a consequence, marginal revenue doesn’t increase by the price

of the incremental unit. It increases by that amount less the rev-

enue lost on each prior unit. At some point, the marginal revenue is

lower than the marginal cost and the firm has pushed price too far,

as shown in figure B-8.

The Two Fundamental Ways to Win

The foregoing gives rise to the two fundamental ways to win. A firm

can choose to offer a similar offering or a unique offering, and each

offering has one and only one form of strategy associated with it.

In the case of a similar offering, a firm does not attempt to con-

vince the customer that its offering is unique. The offering may not

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_B.indd 236 11/6/12 8:17 PM

The Microeconomic Foundations of Strategy 237

be a pure commodity like an ounce of gold, but it might be a sixty-

watt light bulb or a sheet of drywall or even a standard “Wintel”

PC. The distinction is that the firm does not attempt to position its

offering as sufficiently unique to warrant a price premium of any

sort. Once that decision has been made, the only strategy to follow

for competitive advantage is a low-cost one—that is, a strategy of

being in the bottom quarter to third of the cost curve. If a firm is a

price-taker, that is the only way to achieve a sustainable competitive

advantage. It needs to focus its primary energies on defending its

place in the lower third of the industry cost curve, even against new

entrants that may come to the market with new techniques or tech-

nologies. Note that while being in the lower third of the cost curve

tends to ensure strong profitability at least in the short to medium

term, a firm is vulnerable to the potential actions of the very lowest-

cost player. There is only one truly lowest-cost player, and if that

player wishes to grow faster or punish other competitors higher up

on the cost curve, it can start a price war that drives prices down for

all competitors. And because it has the very lowest-cost position,

the firm can weather the price war better than all other competitors.

In the case of a unique offering, the firm needs to differenti-

ate in a way that the customer values sufficiently to pay a price

premium, enabling the firm to earn an attractive return. This

is a differentiation strategy. In essence, for a particular group

of customers, the firm is a monopoly supplier. The custom-

ers don’t think that they have a choice of an identical offering;

they would have to switch to a different sort of offering if they

choose not to buy from this firm. In a differentiation strategy,

the firm needs to focus its energies on maintaining its unique-

ness in the eyes of the customers. Only if its offerings seem

unique to the customers will a firm continue to earn a price pre-

mium over nonunique competitors and hence maintain its com-

petitive advantage.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_B.indd 237 11/6/12 8:17 PM

238 Appendix B

Regardless of the industry, firms can play as the low-cost com-

petitor. Even if the product in an industry is a commodity (e.g.,

uncoated free sheet), the offering of a firm in that industry need

not be undifferentiated. The firm could differentiate its offering by

providing better customer service, more consistent delivery, bet-

ter integration with the downstream buyer’s operations, and so

on. And even in industries dominated by branded, differentiated

players, there can be nonunique players that win through a low-

cost strategy. Certainly the store-controlled brands in the food and

consumer packaged goods businesses are excellent examples of this

approach.

So firms can always choose to win as either a cost leader or a

differentiator. What they can’t do is win any other way. Due to

the fundamental microeconomics of business, there are only two

ways to win: higher margin through lower cost or higher margin

through differentiation.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_B.indd 238 11/6/12 8:17 PM

Notes

Introduction

1. Michael Porter, Competitive Strategy: Techniques for Analyzing

Industries and Competitors (New York: Simon & Schuster, 1980).

2. In 2007, I (R. M.) wrote a book about integrative thinking

(Roger Martin, The Opposable Mind: How Successful Leaders Win

Through Integrative Thinking [Boston: Harvard Business School

Press]). In the book, I argue that when highly successful leaders are faced

with a difficult choice between opposing models, neither of which is

particularly attractive, rather than choose, the leaders generally build a

new model that is superior to both models but contains elements of each.

Because I also write frequently about strategy as choice, as we do in this

book, some readers have suggested that I am internally inconsistent:

successful leaders either don’t choose (per The Opposable Mind) or do

choose (per Playing to Win). I would offer a different perspective. All the

integrative thinkers that I chronicled in The Opposable Mind, from Bob

Young of Red Hat to Isadore Sharp of Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts

to Victoria Hale of the Institute for One World Health to A.G. Lafley,