SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Beauty Product Strategy
SUMMARY: P&G invested in various beauty brands and Olay reinvented itself to target a younger consumer segment with innovative products.
KEYWORDS: beauty brands, product innovation, consumer segmentation, brand strategy, skin care
---

learned the beauty game, it could win across the categories. So,

P&G invested in the SK-II brand (a super-premium Japanese skin-

care line acquired when P&G bought Max Factor in 1991), Cover

Girl (P&G’s leading cosmetics brand), Pantene (its biggest sham-

poo and conditioner brand), Head & Shoulders (its leading anti-

dandruff shampoo line), and Herbal Essences (its hair-care brand

aimed at a younger demographic). The company bought Wella and

Clairol, to create a position in hair styling and color. And it pur-

sued acquisitions that could build leadership in skin care. The Olay

team, meanwhile, worked to reinvent the brand.

Led by Gina Drosos (then general manager for the skin-care

business), the team set to work to understand its consumers and its

competition. The team members discovered, to no one’s surprise,

that Olay’s existing customers were price sensitive and only mini-

mally invested in skin care. Conventional wisdom was that the most

attractive consumer segment was women aged fifty-plus and con-

cerned with fighting wrinkles. These women would pay significant

premiums for promising products, and this was where the lead-

ing brands tended to focus. But, Drosos recalls, “We found, as we

looked at consumer needs in the market, that there was real growth

potential with consumers who were thirty-five-plus, when they

noticed their first lines and wrinkles. Before that, a lot of women

were still using hand and body lotions on their face or really noth-

ing at all.”4 The midthirties seemed to be a potential point of entry

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 9 11/6/12 8:13 PM

10 Playing to Win

in women’s skin care. At this age, consumers become more aware

of, and committed to, a regimen—cleansing, toning, and moistur-

izing and using day creams, night creams, weekly facials, and other

treatments to keep the appearance of youthful, healthy skin. In

their midthirties, women tend to become more highly committed

to skin care and are more willing to pay for quality and innova-

tion. They seek out a preferred brand on a regular basis and try

new offerings from it. They become loyal devotees. These were the

consumers Olay needed, but to play in this segment, Olay would

have to up its game significantly.

Traditionally in the beauty industry, department store brands

have taken the lead on innovation, developing new products and

better products that, over time, trickle down to the mass market.

Given P&G’s greater scale, lower distribution costs, and consid-

erable in-house R&D capabilities, there was an opportunity to

lead on innovation from the middle of the market. “We could flip

this consumer paradigm that the best technology trickles down,”

Drosos says. “We could have the best technology come from

Olay.” So, P&G scientists went to work on sourcing and devel-

oping better and more-effective compounds—skin-care products

that could dramatically outperform existing products in the mar-

ket. Rather than focus exclusively on wrinkles as a product benefit,

Olay broadened the value proposition.

The research showed that wrinkles were but one of many

concerns. Joe Listro, Olay’s R&D vice president, notes, “Besides

wrinkles, there was dry skin, age spots, and uneven skin tone prob-

lems. Consumers were telling us, ‘We have these other needs.’ We

were working on technologies from a skin-biology and noticeable-

appearance standpoint. We identified a material combination called

VitaNiacin that showed noticeable benefits across a range of these

factors that could actually improve the appearance of skin.”5 Olay

sought to redefine what anti-aging products could do. The result

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 10 11/6/12 8:13 PM

Strategy Is Choice 11

was a series of new products, beginning with Olay Total Effects

in 1999, that combined consumer insights with better active ingre-

dients to fight the multiple signs of aging. The products marked a

significant improvement in skin-care performance for consumers.

The new, more effective products could credibly be sold in

departments stores like Macy’s and Saks, the prestige channel that

accounted for more than half of the market. Olay had traditionally

been sold only in the mass channel, through drugstores and dis-

count retailers. These mass retailers, including Walgreens, T arget,

and Walmart, were P&G’s biggest and best customers across mul-

tiple categories. But the company had precious little experience

in, and influence with, department stores, where it sold in just a

few categories. To play to P&G’s strengths, it made sense to stay

in mass channels, but only if department store consumers would

defect there for Olay. To win with Olay in mass, the company had

to bridge the mass and prestige markets, creating what it would

come to call a masstige category. Olay needed to shift the percep-

tion of beauty care in the mass channel, selling higher-end, more

prestigious products in a traditionally high-volume environ-

ment. It needed to attract consumers from both the mass and the

prestige channels. To do so, the product itself was only a part of

the battle; Olay also needed to shift consumer perception of the

brand and channel through its positioning, packaging, pricing, and

promotions.

First, Olay needed to convince skin-care-savvy women that

the new Olay products were just as good as, or better than, higher-

priced competitors. It began with advertising in the same maga-

zines and on the same television shows as those populated by the

more expensive brands; the idea was to put Olay into the same

category in the consumer’s mind. Ads highlighted Olay as the

way to fight “the seven signs of aging,” and outside experts were

enlisted to bolster claims relating to the new and better ingredients.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 11 11/6/12 8:13 PM