SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning
SUMMARY: This text outlines a process for evaluating and selecting strategic options by framing the choice, generating possibilities, specifying conditions, identifying barriers, designing tests, and making informed choices.
KEYWORDS: strategic planning, decision-making, strategic options, hypothesis testing, informed choice
---

damental choice, articulating at least two different ways forward

for the organization (or category, function, brand, product, etc.),

on the basis of your winning aspiration. Then, the team works to

brainstorm a wider variety of possible strategic choices, different

where-to-play and how-to-win choice combinations that could

result in winning. These strategic possibilities are then each con-

sidered in turn by asking what would have to be true for this pos-

sibility to be a potentially winning choice. (Or, flipped around, by

asking, under what conditions could we win with this possibility?)

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 186 11/6/12 8:22 PM

Shorten Your Odds 187

Figure 8-2

reverse-engineering strategic options

Convert issues into at least two mutually

1. Frame the choice

independent options that might resolve the problem

2. Generate strategic Broaden the list to ensure consideration of

possibilities an inclusive list of possibilities

For each possibility, specify which conditions

3. Specify conditions

must hold true for it to be strategically sound

Determine which conditions you feel least

4. Identify barriers to choice

confident are true

For each key barrier, design a valid test

5. Design valid tests

sufficient for generating commitment

Conduct hypothesis-driven analysis, testing the

6. Conduct tests

conditions with the lowest confidence first

Compare test results to key conditions,

7. Choose

and make informed choices

The answers—the things that would have to be true—are the

conditions under which the group would choose to move ahead

with a particular possibility. At this stage, there is no discussion

of whether the conditions are likely to hold, just an understanding

that if they did hold, this possibility would be a great choice.

Next, the group reflects on the set of conditions and asks which

of those conditions seem the least likely to hold. These least-likely-

to-be-true conditions are the barriers to selecting a given option;

until the group has some confidence as to whether these condi-

tions hold, it is impossible to move ahead with a possibility. So, the

team must design and conduct tests of those barriers. As each pos-

sibility is assessed in this way, a clear picture emerges as to which

conditions actually hold and which choice is the most robust. The

best strategic choice gradually becomes clear.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 187 11/6/12 8:22 PM

188 Playing to Win

This is the process in abstract form. Now, let’s dive into more

detail on each stage, returning to our first example, Olay, as the

illustration.

1. Frame the Choice

As a general rule, an issue—for example, declining sales or technol-

ogy change in the industry—can’t be resolved until it is framed as

a choice. Until a real choice (e.g., should the company go in this

direction or that one?) is articulated, team members can’t under-

stand cognitively or feel emotionally the consequences of the dif-

ferent ways to resolve the issue. A team could talk endlessly about

declining sales, making no progress toward solving the problem.

But crystallizing the issue by clearly framing the choices for resolv-

ing it makes the issue immediately real and meaningful. For exam-

ple, a team might ask, should it invest to reinvigorate the product

line, cut costs through head-count reductions, or exit the business

entirely? Articulating options provides a gut check. The team can

ask, how do those choices feel, and more importantly, what would

it need to know to decide on the best choice?

To frame the choice, explicitly ask, what are the differ-

ent ways of resolving this problem? Work to generate several

options that stand in opposition to one another (i.e., such that

you could not easily pursue the different remedies at the same

time). Until you have identified a minimum of two mutually

exclusive options to resolve the issue, the choice is not truly

framed. This stage, framing the choice, is the proverbial crossing

of the Rubicon; it makes the stakes clear and the consequences

apparent and motivates the team to move ahead with finding the

best answer it can.

With Olay, framing the choice was crucial. It made the stakes

clear immediately. Rather than agonizing endlessly about what to

do with a fading brand, the team framed the choice and provided

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 188 11/6/12 8:22 PM

Shorten Your Odds 189

an impetus to action. The team laid out two possibilities: it could

attempt to transform Oil of Olay into a worthy competitor to

brands like Lancôme and La Prairie, or it could spend billions of

dollars to buy a major existing skin-care brand to compete instead.

2. Generate Strategic Possibilities

Framing the issue as a choice identifies a preliminary set of options

for resolving the problem; the next task is to broaden the list of

possibilities. The objective in this step is to be inclusive rather than

restrictive of the number and diversity of possibilities on the table.

Here is the opportunity to encourage creative and more-u nexpected

strategies. In this context, a possibility should be expressed as a nar-

rative or scenario, a happy story that describes a positive outcome.

That is why we like to call them possibilities rather than options.

Characterizing the possibilities as stories helps ensure that they

are not seen negatively as unsubstantiated opinions. No one is yet

arguing for a possibility; you and your colleagues are simply envi-

sioning a world in which that story makes good sense.

Possibilities should be welcomed at this stage, not thoroughly

vetted for inclusion. Suggested possibilities should never be triv-

ialized or dismissed, lest that discourage the inclusion of more

out-of-the-box ideas in the consideration set. Within the group,