SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of making strategic choices and avoiding common pitfalls when determining where to play in a business.
KEYWORDS: strategic choices, focus, market segmentation, geographic expansion, resource allocation
---

where-to-play choice, from consumers to channels and custom-

ers; to competition; to local, regional, and global differences. In the

face of that kind of complexity, your strategy can easily fall prey

to oversimplification, resignation, even desperation. In particular,

you should avoid three pitfalls when thinking about where to play.

The first is to refuse to choose, attempting to play in every field all

at once. The second is to attempt to buy your way out of an inher-

ited and unattractive choice. The third is to accept a current choice

as inevitable or unchangeable. Giving in to any one of these temp-

tations leads to weak strategic choices and, often, to failure.

Failing to Choose

Focus is a crucial winning attribute. Attempting to be all things

to all customers tends to result in underserving everyone. Even

the strongest company or brand will be positioned to serve some

customers better than others. If your customer segment is “every-

one” or your geographic choice is “everywhere,” you haven’t truly

come to grips with the need to choose. But, you may argue, don’t

companies like Apple and Toyota choose to serve everyone? No,

not really. While they do have very large customer bases, the com-

panies don’t serve all parts of the world and all customer segments

equally. As late as 2009, Apple derived just 2 percent of its revenue

from China. That was a choice—about where and when to play.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 61 11/6/12 8:18 PM

62 Playing to Win

It was a choice based on resources, capabilities, and an understand-

ing that even Apple can’t be everywhere at once.

P&G, too, can’t serve all markets equally well. With Bounty, it

chose to target three segments of consumers in the top end of the

North American paper towel market; it chose not to serve the rest

of the world or consumers for whom price was the primary deci-

sion criteria. For P&G overall, in choosing where to play in emerg-

ing markets, the focus was on regions where it had an established

business (like Mexico) and where new markets opened equally to

all comers at the same time (e.g., Eastern Europe right after the fall

of the Berlin Wall and China when Deng Xiaoping opened the first

enterprise zones in Guangzhou City). The decision to focus on a

very few emerging markets at a time enabled P&G to prioritize

resource allocation, cash, and, most importantly, people, against

moving up the learning curve and establishing successful busi-

nesses. Without such an explicit choice, P&G would have wound

up with a mix of middling businesses scattered around the world,

all starved for the attention and resources needed to become a

market leader.

Trying to Buy Your Way Out of an Unattractive Game

Companies often attempt to move out of an unattractive game and

into an attractive one through acquisition. Unfortunately, it rarely

works. A company that is unable to strategize its way out of a

current challenging game will not necessarily excel at a different

one—not without a thoughtful approach to building a strategy in

both industries. Most often, an acquisition adds complexity to an

already scattered and fragmented strategy, making it even harder to

win overall.

Resource companies are particularly susceptible to this trap,

as they often lust after the value-added producers in their indus-

tries. Whether in aluminum, newsprint, or coal, an acquirer is often

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 62 11/6/12 8:18 PM

Where to Play 63

seduced by the idea of access to the higher prices and faster growth

rates of a downstream industry. Unfortunately, there are two big

problems with this kind of acquisition. The first is price. It costs a

great deal to buy into attractive industries—quite often, acquirers

must pay more than the asset could ever be worth to them, which

dooms the acquirer in the long run. Second, the strategy and capa-

bilities required in the targeted industry are often very different

from those in the current industry; it is seriously tough sledding to

bridge the two approaches and have an advantage in both (in min-

ing bauxite and processing aluminum, for instance). Such acquisi-

tions tend to be both overly expensive and strategically challenging.

Rather than attempting to acquire your way into a more attrac-

tive position, you can set a better goal for your company. The real

goal should be to create an internal discipline of strategic think-

ing that enables a more thoughtful approach to the current game,

regardless of industry, and connects to possible different futures

and opportunities.

Accepting an Existing Choice as Immutable

It can also be tempting to view a where-to-play choice as a given,

as having been made for you. But a company always has a choice

of where to play. To return to a favorite example, Apple wasn’t

bound entirely by its first where-to-play choice—which was desk-

top computers. Though it eventually established a comfortable

niche in that world, as the desktop of choice for creative industries,

Apple chose to change its playing field to move into the portable

communication and entertainment space with the iPod, iTunes,

iPhone, and iPad.

It is tempting to think that you have no choice in where to play,

because it makes for a great excuse for mediocre performance. It is

not easy to change playing fields, but it is doable and can make

all the difference. Sometimes the change is subtle, like a shift in

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 63 11/6/12 8:18 PM

64 Playing to Win

consumer focus within a current industry—as with Olay. Other