SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Leadership and Advising
SUMMARY: The text describes the strategic leadership and advisory relationships the CEO had with various internal and external advisors to drive organizational strategy and capabilities.
KEYWORDS: strategic leadership, strategic advising, organizational strategy, strategic capabilities, CEO-advisor relationships
---

the presidents and Roger, or between the presidents and me. I met

with every president every month initially (every quarter by year ten)

to work on strategy, leadership, and personnel issues. The presi-

dents and I addressed a joint agenda collaboratively.

For the presidents, one of the advantages of working through

strategic issues with Roger and not with me directly was that

many of them perceived Roger as less judgmental and saw

the stakes of any given conversation as a bit lower. After all,

he wasn’t writing or signing off on their performance evaluation,

deciding whether they would be promoted, or determining their

compensation. But he was helping me build the strategic capa-

bility of the organization by teaching P&G’s strategy methodology

in internal training sessions; by coaching business leadership

teams who “hired him” to assess and review their business

strategy; and by assessing and evaluating the strategic think-

ing skills and strategic leadership effectiveness of the com-

pany’s presidents and functional leaders. Together, Roger and I

were continually assessing individuals as well as coaching and

teaching to improve strategic capabilities. Both of us believed

that strategy could be taught and learned. But both of us also

believed that it required the ability to think in an integrated and

disciplined way, and the courage to work on the hard choices and

then make the tough calls.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 209 11/6/12 8:22 PM

210 Playing to Win

Over the course of nearly ten years, Roger was my principal

external strategy adviser. Clay Christensen and Mark Johnson

played the external adviser role for me on innovation, Tim Brown

in design, and Kevin Roberts in leadership and branding. Stuart

Scheingarten, a psychologist and “coach,” helped me come to

grips with what worked and what didn’t work with my leadership

style and effectiveness. Stuart was just beginning to make some

meaningful and measurable progress with his student when he

died suddenly and, sadly, too young. Clayt Daley, chief financial

officer, and Gil Cloyd, chief technology officer, were my primary

inside strategic partners. Clayt, Gil, and I spent much more time

together than I did with any outside adviser. And every strate-

gic decision or strategic action took their advice and counsel

into serious consideration. Every M&A move, Clayt and I made

together—all of the acquisitions and divestitures and the near

misses, those deals that got away. On Connect + Develop and

P&G’s overall innovation strategy, Gil was my partner every step

along the way.

But I really only shared my out-of-the-box strategic musings

with Roger, which was possible because of our unique personal

and professional relationships. Any CEO would be fortunate to

find, outside the game, an individual who understands it so well

and who is willing to work tirelessly to help you take your game

to the next level.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 210 11/6/12 8:22 PM

Conclusion

The Endless Pursuit of Winning

I

t’s not getting any easier to win in the real world. The new

normal is, to borrow a phrase from the US military, a VUCA

environment: volatile, uncertain, complex, and ambiguous.

Growth is slowing, and the pace of change is increasing. As the

world c ontinues to globalize, companies face more competition

for customers and consumers than ever before. Consumers are

growing more demanding and more vocal, insisting upon better

performance, quality, and service, all at a better price.

Even in a VUCA world, strategy can help you win. It isn’t a

guarantee, but it can shorten your odds considerably. A lack of

strategy has a clearer and more obvious result: it will kill you.

Maybe not right away, but eventually companies without win-

ning strategies die. A great invention or product idea can create

a company, build value, and win in the marketplace for a while.

But to last, the company behind that idea must answer the five

strategic questions that create and sustain lasting competitive

advantage.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Conclusion.indd 211 11/6/12 8:23 PM

212 Playing to Win

For your own company, ask (and honestly answer):

1. Have you defined winning, and are you crystal clear about

your winning aspiration?

2. Have you decided where you can play to win (and just as

decisively where you will not play)?

3. Have you determined how, specifically, you will win

where you choose to play?

4. Have you pinpointed and built your core capabilities

in such a way that they enable your where-to-play and

how-to-win choices?

5. Do your management systems and key measures support

your other four strategic choices?

The tools and frameworks in this book are designed to help

you answer these five questions and to explore the possibilities for

your organization. Again, for your organization, have you used

the tools to help you think through your potential choices?

• Have you used the strategy logic flow framework to

understand the industry, channel, and customer values,

your own relative capability and cost positions, and com-

petitive reactions in a way that can underpin sustainable

where-to-play and how-to-win choices?

• Have you reverse engineered the strategic possibilities and

asked what would have to be true to ensure that this pos-

sibility is the one that gives you the best chance to win?

The strategic choice cascade, the strategic logic flow, and the

reverse-engineering process represent a strategic playbook for

your organization. Rather than a simple, one-way path, the plays

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Conclusion.indd 212 11/6/12 8:23 PM