SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Sales Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how a salesperson can develop different strategies to cater to various customer segments in a retail setting, such as new yoga practitioners, yoga enthusiasts, and fashion-oriented customers.
KEYWORDS: customer segmentation, product knowledge, communication skills, retail strategy, sales tactics
---

She consequently turns her attention there. In terms of how to

win, she may have one approach for customers who are new to

yoga and intimidated by all the choices (offering advice not just

on attire but on how to get started, as well as reassurance that it

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 17 11/6/12 8:13 PM

18 Playing to Win

will all make sense in time), another for aficionados (highlight-

ing the technical specs of the gear but also swapping stories about

classes and instructors), and another for the fashion crowd who

seek yoga pants not for athletics but for running errands (pointing

out racks of new arrivals, emphasizing unique colors and designs).

She chooses to develop her own capabilities in clear communica-

tion, understanding technical specs, and practicing different forms

of yoga. She builds her own management systems, like a personal

cheat sheet for products and styles and a directory of her favorite

local studios and instructors.

These frontline choices may not seem as complex as the choices

facing the CEO, but they are indeed strategic choices. Like the

CEO, a salesperson must make the best choices she can under con-

straints and uncertainty. Her constraints came from the choices

made above her in the organization, from the demands of her cus-

tomers, and from the strategies of her competitors. For the CEO,

the constraints came from the expectations of the capital markets,

the company’s cash reserves, and the directions of the board of

directors. Both the salesperson and her CEO are making strategic

choices and acting upon them—the only difference is the scope of

the choices and the precise nature of the constraints.

Strategy can be created and refined at every level of the organi-

zation using the choice cascade framework. Each box of the choice

cascade is the subject of an upcoming chapter, but for now, we’ll

explain a little about each one, using Olay brand-level and P&G

company-level choices as illustrations.

Winning Aspirations

The first question—what is our winning aspiration?—sets the

frame for all the other choices. A company must seek to win in a

particular place and in a particular way. If it doesn’t seek to win,

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 18 11/6/12 8:13 PM

Strategy Is Choice 19

it is wasting the time of its people and the investments of its capi-

tal providers. But to be most helpful, the abstract concept of win-

ning should be translated into defined aspirations. Aspirations are

statements about the ideal future. At a later stage in the process, a

company ties to those aspirations some specific benchmarks that

measure progress toward them.

At Olay, the winning aspirations were defined as market share

leadership in North America, $1 billion in sales, and a global share

that put the brand among the market leaders. A revitalized and

transformed Olay was expected to establish skin care as a strong

pillar for beauty along with hair care. Establishing and maintain-

ing leadership of a new masstige segment, positioned between mass

and prestige, was a third aspiration. This set of aspirations served

as a starting point to define where to play and how to win, enabling

the Olay team to see the larger purpose in what it was doing. Clar-

ity about the winning aspirations meant that actions at the brand,

category, sector, and company level were directed at delivering

against that ideal.

At the overall company level, winning was defined as deliver-

ing the most valuable, value-creating brands in every category and

industry in which P&G chose to compete (in other words, market

leadership in all of P&G’s categories). The aspiration was to cre-

ate sustainable competitive advantage, superior value, and superior

financial returns. P&G’s statement of purpose, at the time, read as

follows: “We will provide products and services of superior qual-

ity and value that improve the lives of the world’s consumers. As

a result, consumers will reward us with leadership sales, profit

and value creation, allowing our people, our shareholders, and the

communities in which we live and work to prosper.” Improving

consumers’ lives to drive leadership sales, profit, and value creation

was the company’s most important aspiration. It drove all subse-

quent choices.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 19 11/6/12 8:13 PM

20 Playing to Win

Aspirations can be refined and revised over time. However,

aspirations shouldn’t change day to day; they exist to consistently

align activities within the firm, so should be designed to last for

some time. A definition of winning provides a context for the rest

of the strategic choices; in all cases, choices should fit within and

support the firm’s aspirations. The question of what a winning

aspiration is will be further explored in chapter 2.

Where to Play

The next two questions are where to play and how to win. These

two choices, which are tightly bound up with one another, form

the very heart of strategy and are the two most critical questions in

strategy formulation. The winning aspiration broadly defines the

scope of the firm’s activities; where to play and how to win define

the specific activities of the organization—what the firm will do,

and where and how it will do this, to achieve its aspirations.

Where to play represents the set of choices that narrow the

competitive field. The questions to be asked focus on where the

company will compete—in which markets, with which customers

and consumers, in which channels, in which product categories,

and at which vertical stage or stages of the industry in question.