SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Customer-Centric Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The document emphasizes the importance of making winning an explicit aspiration and focusing on serving customers rather than just pursuing financial goals.
KEYWORDS: customer-centricity, winning strategy, aspirations, industry leadership
---

ple (consumers and customers) rather than money (stock price).

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 35 11/6/12 8:17 PM

36 Playing to Win

Peter Drucker argued that the purpose of an organization is to create

a customer, and it’s still true today. Consider the mission statements

noted above. Starbucks, Nike, and McDonald’s, each massively suc-

cessful in its own way, frame their ambitions around their custom-

ers. And note the tenor of those aspirations: Nike wants to serve

every athlete (not just some of them); McDonald’s wants to be its

customers’ favorite place to eat (not just a convenient choice for

families on the go). Each company doesn’t just want to serve cus-

tomers; it wants to win with them. And that is the single most crucial

dimension of a company’s aspiration: a company must play to win.

To play merely to participate is self-defeating. It is a recipe for medi-

ocrity. Winning is what matters—and it is the ultimate criterion of a

successful strategy. Once the aspiration to win is set, the rest of the

strategic questions relate directly to finding ways to deliver the win.

Why is it so important to make winning an explicit aspira-

tion? Winning is worthwhile; a significant proportion (and often

a disproportionate share) of industry value-creation accrues to the

industry leader. But winning is also hard. It takes hard choices,

dedicated effort, and substantial investment. Lots of companies try

to win and still can’t do it. So imagine, then, the likelihood of win-

ning without explicitly setting out to do so. When a company sets

out to participate, rather than win, it will inevitably fail to make

the tough choices and the significant investments that would make

winning even a remote possibility. A too-modest aspiration is far

more dangerous than a too-lofty one. Too many companies even-

tually die a death of modest aspirations.

Playing to Play

Consider one of the costliest strategic gambles of the last century:

General Motors’ decision to launch Saturn. The context is impor-

tant, of course. In the 1950s, at the end of legendary c hairman

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 36 11/6/12 8:17 PM

What Is Winning 37

Alfred P. Sloan’s tenure, GM had more employees than did any

other company in the world and owned more than half of the US

automotive market. It was the biggest of the Big Three and, for a

time, the greatest and most powerful company on earth. But Sloan

retired. Tastes changed, partly in response to the oil shocks of the

1970s. An incursion of cheaper, fuel-efficient imports began to

make GM’s lineup look old-fashioned and unaffordable.

By the 1980s, GM’s core US brands—including Oldsmobile,

Chevy, and Buick—were in decline. Younger car buyers were

turning to Toyota, Honda, and Nissan, choosing these automak-

ers’ smaller and more economical models. Costs were a growing

concern too; as GM’s unionized workforce aged, generous retiree

benefits contributed to higher and higher legacy costs—and those

costs were passed on to car buyers. Meanwhile, relations with the

United Auto Workers were poor and not getting any better, as

GM restructured operations, closed plants, shifted resources, and

laid off tens of thousands of workers.

In 1990, at a strategic crossroads, GM made a bold choice. It

launched a new brand to compete in the small-car market. Saturn—

“a different kind of company, a different kind of car”—would be

GM’s first new brand in almost seventy years, and it marked the

first time GM would use a subsidiary, rather than a division, to

make and sell cars. The goal, per then chairman Roger Smith, was

to “sell a car at the lower end of the market and still make money.”1

In short, Saturn was GM’s answer to the Japanese imports that

threatened to dominate the small-car market; it was a defensive

strategy, a way of playing in the small-car segment, designed to

protect what remained of the ground GM was losing.

GM set up a separate Saturn head office. It negotiated a sim-

plified, flexible deal with the United Auto Workers for Saturn’s

Spring Hill plant, guaranteeing workers greater control and profit

sharing in exchange for lower base wages. Saturn also took a

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 37 11/6/12 8:17 PM

38 Playing to Win

remarkably different approach to customer service, beginning with

a no-haggle, one-price policy at all its dealerships. At Saturn, “cus-

tomers received personal attention usually found only in luxury

showrooms . . . As a matter of policy, employees would drop what

they were doing and cheer in the showroom when a customer

received the keys to a new Saturn.”2 Launched with much fanfare,

Saturn looked to be GM’s silver bullet—the innovative strategic

initiative that would finally turn things around.

As it turns out, Saturn did not turn things around. Some twenty

years and, by analyst estimates, $20 billion in losses later, Saturn is

gone. The division was shuttered and all of its dealerships closed

by the end of 2010. GM, emerging from Chapter 11 bankruptcy,

is now a shadow of its former self, and its US market share is less

than 20 percent.3 Launching Saturn didn’t cause GM’s bankruptcy,

but it didn’t help much, either. Saturn vehicles, though they gar-

nered loyalty from owners, never reached the critical mass needed

to sustain a full lineup of cars or a national dealer network. As one

former GM director said of Saturn, “it may well be the biggest

fiasco in automotive history since Ford brought out the Edsel.”4

The folks running Saturn aspired to participate in the US small-