SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning
SUMMARY: The text discusses a strategic planning framework that considers industry, customers, relative position, and competition to develop a winning strategy.
KEYWORDS: strategic planning, competitive analysis, value creation, decision-making, teamwork
---

answer this question, you will have to dig deep—engaging in joint

value creation with channel partners and seeking a new under-

standing of end consumers. After customers, the lens turns inward:

what are your capabilities and costs relative to the competition?

Can you be a differentiator or a cost leader? If not, you will need

to rethink your choices. Finally, consider competition; what will

your competitors do in the face of your actions? Throughout the

thinking process, be open to recasting previous analyses in light

of what you learn in a subsequent box. The basic direction of the

process is from left to right, but it also has interdependencies that

require a more flexible path through it.

Working through the framework takes both patience and imagi-

nation. It also takes teamwork. Any new strategy is created in a

social context—it isn’t devised by an individual sitting alone in an

office, thinking his or her way through a complex situation. Rather,

strategy requires a diverse team with the various members bring-

ing their distinct perspectives to bear on the problem. A process for

working collaboratively on strategy is essential, because all compa-

nies are social entities, made up of a diverse network of individu-

als with different agendas and ideas. Those people need to think,

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 176 11/6/12 8:21 PM

Think Through Strategy 177

communicate, decide, and take action together, in order to accom-

plish anything meaningful. The logic flow, as we have seen, is a tool

that simplifies thinking about strategy by laying out its foundational

analytical components and providing a consistent way to put the

pieces together. But the framework alone isn’t enough to ensure that

sound strategic choices are made within a company. You also need

a process to facilitate making choices together. This is the subject of

the next chapter.

STRATEGY LoGic FLow DoS AnD Don’TS

✓ ✓ Do explore all four critical dimensions of strategy choice:

industry, customers, relative position, and competition.

✓ ✓ Do look beyond your current understanding of the industry,

pushing to generate new ways of segmenting the market.

✓ ✓ Don’t accept that entire industries are or must be unat-

tractive; explore the drivers of different dynamics in differ-

ent segments, and ask how the game could be changed.

✓ ✓ Do consider both channel and end consumer value equa-

tions; if only one of these constituents is happy, your

strategy is a fragile one. A winning strategy is a win-win-

win; it creates value for consumers, customers, and the

company.

✓✓ Don’t expect either the channel or the end consumers to

tell you what constitutes value; that is your job to figure out.

✓ ✓ Don’t be blasé about your relative capabilities or costs;

compare them with those of your best competition, and

really push to understand how you can win against them.

✓ ✓ Do explore a range of possible competitive reactions to

your choices, and ask under what conditions competitors

could block you from winning.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 177 11/6/12 8:21 PM

178 Playing to Win

ThE LonG Ro AD To ThE LoGic FLow

by Roger L. Martin

Looking back on it, I see that the journey toward the strategy

logic flow was long and winding. One wouldn’t have thought so,

with Michael Porter providing the foundational intellectual prop-

erty with his smash hit 1980 book Competitive Strategy and its

1985 follow-up Competitive Advantage. Just read the book, and

do strategy! Sadly, it wasn’t quite that simple for me.

In my early Monitor days, it was striking how many clients sim-

ply asked for individual analyses that they’d read about in Porter’s

book: “Do a five-forces analysis for us; do a competitor analy-

sis for us.” So we did. It was considerably tougher when a client

asked us to devise a better strategy for the company. But my

Monitor colleagues and I were bright and energetic and steeped

in Porter’s tools, so we could always go back to the office, get to

thinking, and pull something good out of the proverbial black box.

The real trick, though, was when clients asked us to teach them

how to do strategy, to show them how to get from an unsatis-

factory strategy to a great one themselves. That was something

much, much harder to do.

In 1987, Eaton Corporation hired us to do just that: work

with its various divisions to teach them how to create great

strategies. I was dispatched to Battle Creek, Michigan, to work

with their truck axle business. As I went through the first train-

ing session, I became painfully aware that I was teaching the

Eaton managers a series of analytical tools related to strat-

egy, rather than a holistic process for creating strategy. I found

myself asking, how exactly does customer analysis relate to com-

petitor analysis to relative cost analysis to five-forces analysis?

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 178 11/6/12 8:21 PM

Think Through Strategy 179

Since my clients were getting a fire-hose blast of new content,

they seemed oblivious to the gap in the material. But I remem-

ber going back to my hotel room one night and drawing a dia-

gram that attempted to fit the pieces together. Where do you

start? How does one analysis lead to the next?

Not long after that first attempt to put the analytical tools into

a single robust framework, I was asked to work on the applied

strategic management (ASM) program for P&G, when CEO John

Smale asked Monitor to create a program that taught P&G