SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Product Strategy
SUMMARY: The document discusses P&G's strategic decision to focus its paper towel and tissue business in North America, and reorient its product innovation efforts towards its core Bounty, Charmin, and Puffs brands.
KEYWORDS: product strategy, geographic focus, brand strategy, customer understanding
---

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 52 11/6/12 8:18 PM

Where to Play 53

economical. Yet, the idea of building a truly global tissue and towel

business was untenable.

The good news was that the business could be structurally

attractive in North America; P&G could have a billion-dollar lead-

ership brand with significant manufacturing economies of scale

from North American sales alone. The family-care team could pare

back and choose to play only in North America, in the top half

of the market and, over time, sell off its assets in the rest of the

world. Paring back was a choice P&G had made before. The com-

pany had chosen to enter or stay in categories that were generally

unattractive structurally, but it had played in only the potentially

attractive segments, working hard on pricing, capital and operating

expenses, product and package design, operating costs, and scale.

Laundry care, feminine care, and fine fragrances had all been writ-

ten off as unwinnable categories, before P&G found a way to play

to its strengths in only the most attractive segments. In each case,

choosing where to play explicitly involved choosing where not to

play as well, all within an overall industry structure.

With geography decided, where-to-play shifted to products.

When the where-to-play choice was a global one, the innovation

team had logically decided to pursue a series of new products and

categories, like food containers and paper cups, that were out-

side the core of paper towels and tissues. Given the unattractive

nature of the global tissue and towel businesses, it made some

sense to test potentially more profitable product categories. But

this approach meant that instead of innovating on its existing

products, the team was chasing more-speculative product cat-

egories. Once the geographic choice was narrowed, family care

could reorient the product where-to-play choice back to the

core business, focusing on improving its competitive position in

paper towels and bath and facial tissue. It could focus on Bounty,

Charmin, and Puffs again.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 53 11/6/12 8:18 PM

54 Playing to Win

The team began with Bounty and with consumers. Deep

consumer understanding is at the heart of the strategy discussion.

To be effective, strategy must be rooted in a desire to meet user

needs in a way that creates value for both the company and the

consumer. In considering where to play among consumer seg-

ments, the Bounty team asked some critical questions: Who is

the consumer? What is the job to be done? Why do consumers

choose what they do, relative to the job to be done? Bounty had

tremendous awareness and brand equity in the North American

marketplace. “It had by far the best equity in its category—one of

the strongest brand equities in the company,” says Pierce. “If you

asked, virtually 100 percent of people would say Bounty is a great

brand and a really good product. Then some would go off and buy

something else. What’s wrong with this picture?” Pierce and his

team set out to truly understand consumer needs, habits, and prac-

tices as they relate to paper towels.

In watching and talking to consumers, they found that there

were three distinct types of paper towel users. The first group

cared about both strength and absorbency. For this group, Bounty

was a perfect fit—a great combination of the two attributes they

cared most about. The team found that among these consumers,

Bounty was already the clear winner. Here, “Bounty didn’t have a

forty share,” Pierce says. “It had an eighty share.”

But many consumers didn’t fit into the strength-and-

absorbency category; those consumers fell squarely into the

remaining two segments. The second segment consisted of consum-

ers who wanted a paper towel with a cloth-like feel. They didn’t

care much about strength or absorbency, certainly much less than

the core Bounty group did. Rather, this group of customers cared

about how soft the paper towel felt in their hand. The final segment

had price as their top priority, though not as their sole concern,

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 54 11/6/12 8:18 PM

Where to Play 55

says Pierce: “The need of those consumers was also on strength.

It wasn’t at all on absorbency, because they had a compensat-

ing behavior to address the absorbency shortfalls of lower-priced

paper-towel products: they would simply use more sheets.” These

consumers were happy to use more sheets of a lower-priced paper

towel, when needed, rather than spend more money for a premium

brand that enabled the use of fewer sheets each time. It was a trade-

off that made good sense to them.

Bounty had captured most of the first consumer segment, but

had made few inroads with the other two groups. Pierce wanted to

play in all three segments to achieve more scale and enhance profit-

ability. Going forward, Bounty would become not one but three

distinct products—each one designed to target a specific consumer

segment. Traditional Bounty would remain unchanged and serve

the first segment, which already loved the brand. A new product

called Bounty Extra Soft would target the consumers who craved

a soft, cloth-like feel. And then there was the final segment—the

strength-and-price segment. These consumers presented some-

thing of a challenge.

Most of the lower-priced paper towels on the market were

of poor quality, and the Bounty team didn’t want to devalue

the core brand by associating it with a subpar product. “Those

products fail miserably on strength,” Pierce notes. “They shred,

they tear. They disintegrate in the face of a spill. Then, you not

only have to deal with the spill, but you also have the mess of

the towel residue to deal with.” To have the Bounty name—even