SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Industry Analysis
SUMMARY: This text discusses how industry analysis using Porter's five forces can help determine the structural attractiveness of different business segments and guide strategic decisions.
KEYWORDS: industry analysis, Porter's five forces, segment attractiveness, strategic decisions
---

in the PC business). If, on the other hand, the buyers are large

and powerful, they will get a greater portion of the value (think

Walmart versus the many small manufacturers whose products fill

their shelves). The degree to which there is fierce rivalry affects

which group captures value too. If rivalry between competitors

is high, the dynamic will facilitate the appropriation of value by

suppliers or buyers. A low degree of rivalry will protect profit-

ability for the producers.

At P&G, the analysis of segment attractiveness was occasionally

a decisive factor in setting the strategy. For Bounty, geographic seg-

mentation, paired with an understanding of consumer preferences,

demonstrated that the paper-towel business was only structur-

ally attractive for P&G in North America, due to massive over-

capacity and low willingness to pay in the rest of the world. The

industry featured high rivalry, high buyer power, and plenty of

substitutes. When assessing segment attractiveness for Crest, P&G

came to realize that the health segment was not only the largest,

but also the most structurally attractive. Health claims need to be

backed by clinical trials, and few companies—really only P&G and

Colgate-Palmolive—have the resources and experience to play that

game on an ongoing basis. This kind of analysis—crunching the

numbers on the size and appeal of different segments—is crucial to

determining the range of attractive where-to-play choices.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 165 11/6/12 8:21 PM

166 Playing to Win

In general, P&G worked to tilt the weight of its portfolio

toward more structurally attractive businesses, looking for busi-

nesses whose suppliers had little power to raise input costs.

In beauty, for instance, purchased inputs were relatively low in

value, making the sector more attractive to P&G.

Industries with fewer rivals and with competitors that seek to

serve different parts of the market with unique offerings are more

attractive than those in which a number of competitors compete

fiercely for the same consumers in the same way. P&G favored

beauty and personal care, including feminine care, because these

were industries with low capital cost in which highly fragmented

rivals attempted to differentiate their products in unique ways.

In family care, by contrast, the machines that produce paper tis-

sues and towels represent hundreds of millions in capital costs and

are only profitable when running near capacity. Consequently, to

keep their machines running to capacity, industry players tend to

cut prices whenever demand softens. This diminishes structural

attractiveness.

Porter’s five forces help define the fundamental attractiveness

of a given industry and its individual segments. Understanding

structural attractiveness allows individual managers to d etermine

how to invest in various segments within their business. For

instance, the fine-fragrances business was able to initially avoid the

intense competition in women’s fragrances by starting with Hugo

Boss in the more structurally attractive men’s fragrance segment.

Men’s fragrance was more attractive because it was a smaller part

of the market and most big competitors overlooked it to focus on

women’s prestige fragrances. After the business found its footing

in men’s fragrances, fine fragrances could leverage P&G’s strengths

to make the women’s fragrance segment more attractive.

Industry analysis also enables a company to migrate its portfo-

lio toward more structurally attractive businesses and away from

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 166 11/6/12 8:21 PM

Think Through Strategy 167

less attractive ones. An analysis of the declining attractiveness of

the hard-surface cleaner segment, for instance, led the category

team to sell off Spic ’n Span and Comet, allocating resources to cre-

ate new segments with Febreze (fabric odor removal) and Swiffer

(quick floor cleaning), both much more structurally attractive than

the traditional hard-surface cleaner segment and more conducive

to building competitive advantage.

Customer Value Analysis

Armed with a map of the playing field and an analysis of the structural

attractiveness of the individual segments, the strategist can move to

the second major category in this framework: an analysis of customer

value. Regardless of whether a firm wishes to be a cost leader or a dif-

ferentiator, it needs to understand precisely what customers (its own

and its competitors’ customers) value. This means understanding

underlying needs, like recognizing, with Gain, that a sizable group of

consumers cared deeply about the sensory experience of doing laun-

dry, valuing the scent of the detergent in the box, in the wash, and in

the drawer or closet. Only once this need was understood was it pos-

sible to position and differentiate Gain along this dimension.

The logic flow diagram indicates two levels of c ustomers, which

may or may not be the case for a given firm. In many businesses,

as with P&G, there is a distribution channel between the end con-

sumer and the company. Individuals don’t buy Gain directly from

P&G; retailers buy from P&G, and then those retailers sell to end

consumers. So, given that P&G needs retailers to stock Gain, the

company needs to offer a compelling value proposition to retailers,

or the end consumer will never see the product. Wherever there is

an intermediary channel between the firm and the end consumer,

that intermediate customer and what it values must be understood.

Wherever there is no intermediate customer or channel (like a retail

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 167 11/6/12 8:21 PM

168 Playing to Win

bank, for example, which offers services directly to its consumers),

a direct-to-consumer or solely business-to-business firm can elim-

inate the channel box from the diagram.

In customer value analysis, the company assesses what its chan-

nel customers and end consumers really want and need, and what