SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Decision-Making
SUMMARY: This document discusses Procter & Gamble's approach to fostering a culture of strategic decision-making across the organization.
KEYWORDS: strategic planning, organizational culture, team dynamics, decision-making process, P&G
---

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 137 11/6/12 8:20 PM

138 Playing to Win

meetings, and all the way to the boardroom. The goal was to cre-

ate a culture of inquiry that would surface productive tensions to

inform smarter choices. The explicit goal was to create s trategists at

all levels of the organization. Over the course of a career, P&G lead-

ers gain practice designing strategy for brands and products lines,

categories, channels, customer relationships, countries and regions,

and functions and technologies. The idea is to build up strategy

muscles over time, in different contexts, so that as managers rise in

the organization, they are well prepared for the next strategic task.

As they succeed, the reward is a bigger, tougher, and more complex

strategic challenge. This practice-makes-perfect approach to learn-

ing strategy explains why so many P&G alums go on to become

CEOs.

Though P&G has a strong culture of individual achievement,

leaders also recognize the importance of teams to the development

of strategy. No individual, and certainly not the CEO, would try

to craft and deliver a strategy alone. Creating a truly robust strat-

egy takes the capabilities, knowledge, and experience of a diverse

team—a close-knit group of talented and driven individuals, each

aware of how his or her own effort contributes to the success of the

group and all dedicated to winning as a collective.

Taking a group of individual high achievers and asking them

to work together to craft strategy is no simple matter. Since stra-

tegic choice is a judgment call in which nobody can prove that a

particular strategy is right or the best in advance, there is a funda-

mental challenge to coming to organizational decisions on strategy.

Everyone selects and interprets data about the world and comes

to a unique conclusion about the best course of action. Each per-

son tends to embrace a single strategic choice as the right answer.

That naturally leads to the inclination to attack the supporting

logic of opposing choices, creating entrenchment and extremism,

rather than collaboration and deep consideration of the ideas.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 138 11/6/12 8:20 PM

Manage What Matters 139

To overcome this tendency, P&G needed to create a culture of

inquiry and norms of communication that allowed individuals and

teams to be more rather than less productive.

A Framing Structure

In any organization, but especially in an organization as large as

P&G, there needs to be a framework for organizing the strategy

discussion. At P&G, a preexisting management system for describ-

ing strategy could be leveraged: the OGSM, a one-page document

that captures objectives, goals, strategy, and measures for a brand,

category, or company. It was a helpful tool in that it could easily

be adapted to the strategic choice cascade and was a framework

already well understood in the company. Unfortunately, though,

the average OGSM document reads like a laundry list of initiatives

rather than an articulation of the core where-to-play and how-to-

win choices of the business. So, we enforced a practice by which

the strategy section had to contain a clear and explicit expression of

where to play and how to win, choices that connected in compel-

ling ways with the aspirations of the business and the measures of

success indicated in the final section of the OGSM. The goal was to

create in the OGSM a simple, clear expression of a strategy, a living

document that everyone in the business knew and understood. A

new OGSM might look something like the one found in table 6-1,

which is an adaptation of the real family-care OGSM from several

years ago.

The OGSM became the strategic starting point for other

important discussions throughout the year. At innovation program

reviews, the question was, how does the product innovation port-

folio fit with where you’re going to play? How does it advance

how you’re going to win? In light of the annual operating bud-

get and plan, the question was, are you allocating your dollars and

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 139 11/6/12 8:20 PM

140 Playing to Win

TABLE 6-1

A sample OGSM (objectives, goals, strategy, and measures)

statement

Objectives Strategy Measures

Improve the lives of Where to play: • Operating TSR progress

families by providing • Win in North America • Share and sales growth

consumer-preferred paper • Grow Bounty and progress

products for kitchen and Charmin margin of • Profit growth progress

bathroom leadership

• Win in supermarket and Efficiency measures:

Be the operating TSR mass discount channels • Capital efficiency

leader in North American • Build performance, • Inventory turns

tissue/towel and value sensory, and value

creator for P&G consumer segments Consumer preference

measures:

Goals How to win:

• Weighted purchase

1. Be lean

Year-on-year operating intent

• Get plant/equipment

TSR > x% • Trial, purchase, and

capital spend to xx

loyalty

of sales

x% annual share and sales

growth • Reduce inventory Retailer feedback

by x% measures:

2. Be the choice of

x% annual gross and • Key business drivers

consumers

operating profit margin (distribution, share of

• Superior base

improvement shelf, share of merchan-

products, prices right

dising, etc.)

• Preferred product for-

x% return on capital • Preferred vendor

mats and designs

investments in plant

• Manage category

equipment and inventory

growth

3. Be the choice of

retailers

• Improve shelf

availability and ser-

vice

• Develop

differentiated

shopping solutions

• Win with the winners

your human resources toward the strategic priorities? The OGSM

became the foundation of all manner of discussions, effectively

grounding capital allocation, branding, resourcing, and innovation