SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Product Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses Procter & Gamble's strategy to introduce a new Bounty paper towel product, Bounty Basic, to address a specific segment of consumers with a focus on strength and price.
KEYWORDS: product segmentation, product design, product positioning, brand strategy, innovation
---

products fail miserably on strength,” Pierce notes. “They shred,

they tear. They disintegrate in the face of a spill. Then, you not

only have to deal with the spill, but you also have the mess of

the towel residue to deal with.” To have the Bounty name—even

at a value price point—a product would have to live up to the

equity of the Bounty brand. The new offering for the strength-

and-price segment was designed not as a stripped-down version

of Bounty, but as a new product with specific consumer needs

in mind. Bounty Basic was considerably stronger than any other

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 55 11/6/12 8:18 PM

56 Playing to Win

value brand and priced at about 75 percent of the cost of regular

Bounty. Shelved away from traditional Bounty, with the other

lower-priced brands, it spoke directly to the third segment of

consumers.

While there was some concern that existing Bounty consum-

ers might trade down to Bounty Basic, the relative attributes of

the three products fit each segment’s needs so perfectly that little

shifting actually occurred. Pierce notes, “The old Bounty was one

product that existed for decades. The modern-day Bounty is now

three products that were designed against very clear consumer

understanding and consumer segmentation. They’re all very dif-

ferent from each other on a product performance standpoint, and

each is designed to meet the needs of its users.”

Ultimately, the family-care team chose not to play in the

truly commodity portion of the market; while Bounty Basic is

a value offering, it is priced at a premium to private-label brands

and offers a clear strength advantage. By staying in the noncom-

modity space, in terms of both product assortment and price

point, P&G can target its core consumers through its most val-

ued core retailers (its best and biggest customers), levering core

advantages in innovation and brand building. Pierce and his team

made where-to-play choices on geography (North America),

consumers (three segments in the top half of the market), prod-

ucts (paper towels, branded basic and premium), channels (gro-

cery stores, mass discounters, drugstores, and membership club

stores like Costco), and stages of production (R&D and pro-

duction of the paper towel itself, but not growing, harvesting,

or pulping the trees). Making these clear where-to-play choices,

for Bounty and the family-care category, spurred innovation and

helped powerful brands grow even stronger. As a result, P&G

family care consistently delivered business growth and value cre-

ation at industry-leading levels.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 56 11/6/12 8:18 PM

Where to Play 57

The Importance of the Right Playing Field

The choice of where to play defines the playing field for the com-

pany (or brand, or category, etc.). It is a question of what business

you are really in. It is a choice about where to compete and where

not to compete. Understanding this choice is crucial, because the

playing field you choose is also the place where you will need to

find ways to win. Where-to-play choices occur across a number of

domains, notably these:

• Geography. In what countries or regions will you seek to

compete?

• Product type. What kinds of products and services will you

offer?

• Consumer segment. What groups of consumers will you

target? In which price tier? Meeting which consumer needs?

• Distribution channel. How will you reach your customers?

What channels will you use?

• Vertical stage of production. In what stages of production

will you engage? Where along the value chain? How

broadly or narrowly?

Many individual considerations need to go into the compre-

hensive where-to-play choice. And the considerations are the same,

no matter the size of the company or type of industry. Think of a

small farmer. He must answer a number of questions to get a clear

sense of his playing field. Will he sell only locally or to his friends

and neighbors, or will he attempt to join a co-op that has a larger

geographic footprint? Which fruits and vegetables will he grow?

Will he sell organic products or standard ones? Will he sell bush-

els of fruit unprocessed or process apples into juice before selling

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 57 11/6/12 8:18 PM

58 Playing to Win

them? Will he sell direct to consumers, or through a warehouse

middleman? If he does process the fruit into juice, will he do that

himself or outsource that phase of production? If he is thoughtful,

the farmer will consider where to play in a manner that enables

him to choose geographies, segments, products, channels, and pro-

duction options that work well together (e.g., selling organic veg-

gies locally at farmer’s markets or processing fruit to sell nationally

while minimizing spoilage).

Start-ups, small businesses, regional or national companies,

and even huge multinationals all face an analogous set of where-

to-play choices. The answers, of course, differ. Small businesses

may well have narrower where-to-play choices than larger com-

panies do, largely as a function of capacity and scale. But even the

largest companies must make explicit choices to compete in some

places, with some products, for some customers (and not in oth-

ers). A choice to serve everyone, everywhere—or to simply serve

all comers—is a losing choice.

Choosing where to play is also about choosing where not

to play. This is more straightforward when you are considering

where to expand (or not), but considerably harder when consider-

ing if you should stay in the places and segments you currently

serve. The status quo—continuing on in the locations and seg-