SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Positioning and Business Model Transformation
SUMMARY: This text discusses how companies like Olay and Tide have successfully changed their 'where-to-play' choices, either by narrowing focus or expanding their product and distribution offerings.
KEYWORDS: strategic positioning, business model transformation, product diversification, distribution expansion
---

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 63 11/6/12 8:18 PM

64 Playing to Win

consumer focus within a current industry—as with Olay. Other

times the change can be dramatic, like at Thomson Corporation.

Twenty years ago, the company’s where-to-play choice was North

American newspapers, North Sea oil, and European travel; today

(as Thomson Reuters), it competes only in must-have, software-

enhanced, subscription-based information delivered over the web.

There is almost zero overlap between the old and new where-to-

play choices for Thomson. The change didn’t happen overnight—

it took twenty years of dedicated work—but it demonstrates that

changing an existing where-to-play choice is doable.

Even well-established brands have multiple choices. We’ve

already seen the Olay where-to-play choice and how it changed

over time. Rather than attempting to deliver products to all women,

in all age categories, at the lower end of the market, the Olay team

chose to compete primarily on a narrower field—women aged

thirty-five-plus who were newly concerned with the signs of

aging. This was just one of many possible choices for the brand,

an explicit narrowing and shifting of the previous where-to-play

choice. Then there is one of P&G’s biggest brands: Tide. It gained

strength by broadening its where-to-play choice.

Once, the Tide team was focused almost entirely on the dirt

you can actually see on clothes. As late as the 1980s, Tide had two

forms—the traditional washing powder and the liquid version—

both geared at getting the visible dirt out of your clothes (“Tide’s

in, Dirt’s out”). P&G broadened its where-to-play choice for Tide

by moving beyond visible dirt. Tide introduced product versions

designed to address a whole range of cleaning needs—Tide with

Bleach, Tide Plus a Touch of Downy, Tide Plus Febreze, Tide for

Coldwater, Tide Unscented; then, P&G expanded the Tide offer-

ing from detergents to other laundry-related products—creating a

line of stain-release products, most notably the highly successful

Tide-to-Go instant stain remover. The goal was to build a product

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 64 11/6/12 8:18 PM

Where to Play 65

line that effectively addressed different loads, different consumers,

even different family members.

Tide expanded its distribution model as well. The team started

to look at the distributors that offer a very limited number of

brands, like drugstores, wholesale stores like Costco, dollar stores,

and vending machines at self-service laundries and campgrounds.

These channels tend to offer just one national brand and a private-

label option. P&G pushed hard to have Tide chosen as the national

brand in each case. As the leading brand in the category, it had a

compelling case. The horizon has even expanded to Tide-branded

dry cleaners. A broader definition of where to play served as the

building block to extend the brand. Each new Tide product is built

on the superior cleaning ability of Tide and its value-added ben-

efits, reinforcing the core brand. In this way, Tide broadened to get

stronger.

Imagining a New Where to Play

Sometimes the key to finding a new place to play is to simply

believe that one is possible. In 1995, Chip Bergh was appointed

general manager for P&G’s US hard-surface cleaners business.

Bergh reflects, with a laugh, “It sounds like a very nonelegant,

unsexy business, and that’s exactly what it was. It was not a strate-

gic priority in the company. But interestingly, for all of our com-

petitors, it was a core business. We knew our CEO never rolled

out of bed and thought about this business. But for our competi-

tors, every morning when the CEO was getting out of bed, he was

worrying about this business.”5 The competitive landscape was

challenging. Bergh’s brands included past-their-prime names like

Comet, Spic ’n Span, and Mr. Clean. It was, Bergh notes, “about

a $200 million business at the time, and it was in free fall.” At one

point in the mid-1970s, Comet had enjoyed a 50 percent market

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 65 11/6/12 8:18 PM

66 Playing to Win

share of the category. By 1995, all of P&G’s brands in this category,

combined, had less than 20 percent of the market.

Times had changed, and P&G had failed to change with

them. There were fewer hard surfaces in homes, as fiberglass (and

porous marbles and other stones) replaced porcelain. Competi-

tors had introduced less abrasive cleansers that resonated with

consumers; P&G had not. “It was clear we had to do something

very, very different,” Bergh notes. “We realized that our products

were no longer relevant for the consumer and that we had been

o ut-innovated.”

So Bergh challenged his team to think about where to play

from an entirely new perspective that would be grounded in an

understanding of the competitive landscape and of P&G’s core

capabilities. “I took my leadership team off-site for two days,” he

says. “The focus was to come up with a set of choices that would

make a difference on the business. The rallying cry we had around

the new choices, and around the new strategy, was to fundamen-

tally change the game of cleaning at home and make cleaning less

of a chore.” As ever, the starting point was consumer needs—like

quick surface cleaning without muss and fuss, addressing a particu-

lar job and doing it better than current offerings. Bergh continues:

“We asked, how do we leverage the company scale and size and

technology expertise to fundamentally change cleaning at home?

The key breakthrough for us was to start putting together different

technologies that P&G had, but our competitors didn’t. How do

you marry chemistry, surfactant technology, and paper technol-