SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Decision Making
SUMMARY: The text discusses a reverse-engineering process for gaining buy-in on strategic choices by addressing concerns and testing the most skeptical conditions first.
KEYWORDS: strategic decision-making, buy-in, reverse-engineering, testing, skepticism
---

sibility. This could theoretically happen. However, empirically,

it does not happen, for two reasons. First, people demonstrate

extremes of skepticism largely because they don’t feel heard. In a

typical buy-in process, concerns are roadblocks to be pushed out

of the way as quickly and thoroughly as possible. The reverse-

engineering process, by contrast, makes sure that individuals

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 197 11/6/12 8:22 PM

198 Playing to Win

with concerns feel heard and actually are heard. Second, there is

the specter of mutually assured destruction. Though I may have

serious doubts about possibility A, I quite like possibility B. You,

on the other hand, have few doubts about possibility A, but seri-

ous barriers to choosing possibility B. I get to set the tests for the

barrier conditions for possibility A, but I do so in the knowl-

edge that you will get to set the tests for possibility B. If I set

an unrealistically high bar for the tests for A, you will surely do

the same for B. Being fair is the smartest approach to ensure the

best outcome for the organization—something all participants

both desire.

The ultimate goal is to design tests that will enable each mem-

ber of the group to put hand on heart and commit to making a

choice, and to supporting it thereafter, if the possibility passes

the test. Team members may have quite different and incompat-

ible tests that they view as valid, meaning that multiple tests may

need to be applied for a given condition. However, in practice,

groups tend to find themselves coalescing around a single acid test,

especially if they take their cue from the most skeptical member of

the team.

6. Conduct Tests

The test design process leads to the actual testing phase and the

analysis of results. Here, we recommend taking what we some-

times call the lazy person’s approach to strategy. Simply put, first

test the things you’re most dubious about. Take the condition

the team feels is the least likely to hold up, and test it first. If the

team’s suspicion is right, that possibility will be eliminated with-

out the need to test any of the other conditions. The possibility

has already failed an essential test, so no more tests are necessary.

If, on the other hand, the possibility passes the first test, move

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 198 11/6/12 8:22 PM

Shorten Your Odds 199

on to the condition with the next-lowest confidence level, and so

on. Since testing is often the most expensive and time- consuming

part of the choice process, this approach can save enormous

amounts of resources, reducing the number of tests that must

be performed in total, as possibilities fall away after just one or

two tests.

This is an important feature by which the reverse-engineering

process diverges profoundly from the process used in most strategy

efforts. The typical process, whether internal or outsourced to

consultants, features a relatively standard suite of analyses. Rather

than frame the choice, understand the conditions, order the bar-

riers, and analyze only the binding constraints—as the team does

in reverse engineering—the typical approach analyzes everything

in parallel. That means, in practice, a whole lot of analysis, much

of which is not essential to making the decision. Furthermore,

because of the wide scope of analysis, the standard process tends

to accidentally sacrifice depth for breadth (i.e., analyses are a mile

wide and an inch deep because the time and financial costs to do a

deep analysis across the board would be prohibitive). To generate

choice and commitment, companies actually need analysis that is

an inch wide and a mile deep—focused precisely on the concerns

that prevent the team from choosing and going deep enough in that

particular area to meet the team’s standard of proof. That is what

reverse engineering enables you to do: probe precisely and deeply

into the barriers to choice.

With Olay, for example, the price test came first. When tests

showed that Olay could command a price in the $20 range, the

team tested the retailer condition: would retailers partner with

P&G on this initiative? Detailed conversations with a core group

of P&G’s most important retailers suggested that they would.

Then P&G needed to convince itself that it would be able to create

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 199 11/6/12 8:22 PM

200 Playing to Win

that holistic masstige user experience in conjunction with its key

retail partners. It did so by designing, prototyping, and testing that

experience.

7. Choose

In a standard process, choosing is difficult, acrimonious, and

time-consuming. At an off-site meeting, participants are pre-

sented with binders full of analyses. They are asked to frame

and make choices in one fell swoop on the basis of that data.

With the stakes high and the logic poorly articulated, these

meetings and the resultant choices rarely work out terribly

well. In this reverse-engineering process, on the other hand, the

choice-making step becomes simple and even anticlimactic. The

team needs only to review the test results and make the choice

dictated by the pattern of results. In essence, the choice makes

itself; there is no need for serious debate at this late juncture.

So it was with Olay; the masstige option became the clear and

obvious choice.

That, in sum, is the process for choosing between possibilities

for where to play and how to win. First, frame a choice. Second,

explore possibilities to broaden the set of mutually exclusive possi-

bilities. Third, for each possibility, ask, what would have to be true