SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Cost Leadership Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how companies can achieve a cost advantage over competitors by having a lower cost structure, and how they can leverage this advantage to gain market share or reinvest in other competitive advantages.
KEYWORDS: cost leadership, cost advantage, competitive advantage, pricing strategy, supply chain management
---

lower cost structure than competitors do. Imagine that companies

A, B, and C all produce widgets for which customers will gladly

pay $100. The products are comparable, so if one company charges

more for its product than the others do, most customers will elect

not to buy it in favor of the less expensive versions. Company B

and company C have comparable cost structures and produce the

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 81 11/6/12 8:19 PM

82 Playing to Win

widgets for $60, earning a $40 margin. Company A has a lower cost

structure for producing essentially the same product and is able to

do so for $45, producing a $55 margin. In this instance, company

A is the low-cost leader and has a dramatic advantage over its com-

petitors.

The low-cost player doesn’t necessarily charge the lowest

prices. Low-cost players have the option of underpricing competi-

tors, but can also reinvest the margin differential in ways that create

competitive advantage. Mars is a great example of this approach.

Since the 1980s, it has held a distinct cost advantage over Hershey’s

in candy bars. Mars has chosen to structure its range of candy bars

such that they can be produced on a single super-high-speed pro-

duction line. The company also utilizes less-expensive ingredients

(by and large). Both of these choices greatly reduce product cost.

Hershey’s and other competitors have multiple methods of pro-

duction and more-expensive ingredients and hence higher cost

structures. Rather than selling its bars at a lower price (which is

nearly impossible because of the dynamics of the convenience-

store trade), Mars has chosen to buy the best shelf space in the

candy bar rack in every convenience store in America. Hershey’s

can’t effectively counter the Mars initiative; it simply doesn’t have

the extra money to spend. On the strength of this investment, Mars

moved from a small player to goliath Hershey’s main rival, com-

peting for overall market share leadership.

Dell Computer took a similar tack early on. In its first decade,

Dell enjoyed a substantial low-cost advantage over its competitors

in the PC space. Superior supply chain and distribution choices

created a cost differential of approximately $300 per computer in

Dell’s favor; it simply cost Dell’s competitors more to make, sell,

and distribute personal computers. Rather than keeping all of that

margin advantage, Dell returned some to consumers, underpricing

its competitors for roughly equivalent products. On the strength

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 82 11/6/12 8:19 PM

How to Win 83

of these lower prices, Dell gained leading market share in record

time, taking a huge bite out of Gateway, HP, Compaq, and IBM in

the process. The $300 margin differential gave Dell a massive win-

ning advantage at the time. The company grew from Michael Dell’s

dorm-room start-up in 1984 to a company worth $100 billion at its

height in 1999.

While all companies make efforts to control costs, there is only

one low-cost player in any industry—the competitor with the very

lowest costs. Having lower costs than some but not all competitors

can enable a firm to stick around and compete for a while. But it

won’t win. Only the true low-cost player can win with a low-cost

strategy.

Differentiation Strategies

The alternative to low cost is differentiation. In a successful dif-

ferentiation strategy, the company offers products or services that

are perceived to be distinctively more valuable to customers than

are competitive offerings, and is able to do so with approximately

the same cost structure that competitors use. In this case, compa-

nies A, B, and C produce widgets and all do so for $60 per widget.

But while customers are willing to pay $100 for widgets from com-

pany A or B, they are willing to pay $115 for company C’s wid-

gets, because of a perception of greater quality or more-interesting

designs. Here, company C has a $15 higher margin than its com-

petitors and a substantial advantage over them.

In this type of strategy, different offerings have different con-

sumer value equations and different prices associated with them.

Each brand or product offers a specific value proposition that

appeals to a specific group of customers. Loyalty emerges where

there is a match between what the brand distinctively offers and

the consumer personally values. In the hotel industry, for instance,

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 83 11/6/12 8:19 PM

84 Playing to Win

one consumer would have a much higher willingness to pay for a

service-oriented offering, like Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts,

while another would more highly value a unique, boutique experi-

ence, like the Library Hotel in New York. Differentiation between

products is driven by the activities of the firm: product design, prod-

uct performance, quality, branding, advertising, distribution, and so

on. The more a product is differentiated along a dimension consum-

ers care about, the higher price premium it can demand. So, Starbucks

can charge $3.50 for a cappuccino, Hermès can charge $10,000 for a

Birkin bag, and they can do so largely irrespective of input costs.

Not all differentiators look the same. While Toyota is some-

times considered a lost-cost player because of its focus on manufac-

turing effectiveness, it is really a differentiator. Its manufacturing

effectiveness is necessary to make up for its production environ-

ment (which is heavily weighted to high-cost Japan). However, the

automaker is able to earn a price premium of several thousand dol-

lars per vehicle over its competitors in the US car market, while

producing vehicles at similar cost. The best-selling Camry and