SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how P&G's competitive advantages, such as understanding its consumers and creating differentiated brands, have enabled it to sustain a unique go-to-market model.
KEYWORDS: competitive advantage, brand differentiation, go-to-market strategy, business context, resource allocation
---

26 Playing to Win

these where-to-play choices. To be successful, how-to-win choices

should be suited to the specific context of the firm in question and

highly difficult for competitors to copy. P&G’s competitive advan-

tages are its ability to understand its core consumers and to create

differentiated brands. It wins by relentlessly building its brands and

through innovative product technology. It leverages global scale and

strong partnerships with suppliers and channel customers to deliver

strong retail distribution and consumer value in its chosen markets.

If P&G played to its strengths and invested in them, it could sustain

competitive advantage through a unique go-to-market model.

P&G’s where-to-play and how-to-win-choices aren’t appro-

priate for every context. The key to making the right choices for

your business is that they must be doable and decisive for you. If

you are a small entrepreneurial firm facing much larger competi-

tors, making a how-to-win choice on the basis of scale would not

make much sense. But simply because you are small doesn’t mean

winning through scale is impossible. Don’t dismiss the possibility

that you can change the context to fit your choices. Bob Young,

cofounder of Red Hat, Inc., knew precisely where he wanted his

company to play: he wanted to serve corporate customers with

open-source enterprise software. In his view, the how-to-win in

that context required scale—Young saw that corporate customers

were much more likely to buy from a market leader, especially a

dominant market leader. At the time, the Linux market was highly

fragmented, with no such clear leader. Young had to change the

game—by literally giving his software away via free download—

to achieve dominant market share and become credible to corpo-

rate information technology (IT) departments. In that case, Young

decided where to play and how to win, and then built the rest of his

strategy (earning revenue from service rather than software sales)

around these two choices. The result was a billion-dollar company

with a thriving enterprise business.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 26 11/6/12 8:13 PM

Strategy Is Choice 27

The myriad ways to win, and possibilities for thinking through

them, will be explored in greater depth in chapter 4. There, we

begin with the story of a set of technologies that posed a particu-

larly challenging how-to-win choice for P&G.

Core Capabilities

Two questions flow from and support the heart of strategy:

(1) what capabilities must be in place to win, and (2) what manage-

ment systems are required to support the strategic choices? The

first of these questions, the capabilities choice, relates to the range

and quality of activities that will enable a company to win where it

chooses to play. Capabilities are the map of activities and compe-

tencies that critically underpin specific where-to-play and how-to-

win choices.

The Olay team had to invest in building and creating its capa-

bilities on a number of fronts: clearly, innovation would be vital—

and not just product innovation—but packaging, distribution,

marketing, and even business model innovation would play a role.

The team would need to leverage its existing consumer insights to

truly understand a different segment. It would have to build the

brand, advertise, and merchandise with mass retailers in new ways.

Olay and P&G skin care couldn’t go it alone. So, they partnered

with product ingredient innovators (Cellderma), designers (IDEO

and others), advertising and PR agencies (Saatchi & Saatchi), and

key influencers (like beauty magazine editors and dermatologists,

for credible product performance endorsements). This networked

alliance of internal and external capabilities created a unique and

powerful activity system. It required deepening existing capabili-

ties and building new ones.

At P&G, a company with more than 125,000 employees world-

wide, the range of capabilities is broad and diverse. But only a few

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 27 11/6/12 8:13 PM

28 Playing to Win

capabilities are absolutely fundamental to winning in the places

and manner that it has chosen:

Deep consumer understanding. This is the ability to truly

know shoppers and end users. The goal is to uncover the

unarticulated needs of consumers, to know consumers better

than any competitors do, and to see opportunities before they

are obvious to others.

Innovation. Innovation is P&G’s lifeblood. P&G seeks to

translate deep understanding of consumer needs into new

and continuously improved products. Innovation efforts may

be applied to the product, to the packaging, to the way P&G

serves its consumers and works with its trade customers, or

even to its business models, core capabilities, and management

systems.

Brand building. Branding has long been one of P&G’s

strongest capabilities. By better defining and distilling a brand-

building heuristic, P&G can train and develop brand leaders

and marketers in this discipline effectively and efficiently.

Go-to-market ability. This capability concerns channel

and consumer relationships. P&G thrives on reaching its

customers and consumers at the right time, in the right place,

in the right way. By investing in unique partnerships with

retailers, P&G can create new and breakthrough go-to-market

strategies that allow it to deliver more value to consumers in

the store and to retailers throughout the supply chain.

Global scale. P&G is a global, multicategory company. Rather

than operate in distinct silos, its categories can increase the

power of the whole by hiring together, learning together,

buying together, researching and testing together, and going to

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 28 11/6/12 8:13 PM

Strategy Is Choice 29

market together. In the 1990s, P&G amalgamated a whole suite

of internal support services, like employee services and IT,

under one umbrella—global business services (GBS)—to allow