SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The CEO of P&G determined that the company needed to focus on winning with the most important consumers and competitors through strategic choices.
KEYWORDS: business strategy, strategic choices, consumer focus, competitive advantage
---

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 49 11/6/12 8:17 PM

50 Playing to Win

looked at Eastman Kodak Company, lost an auction to Pfizer for

American Home Products, and pursued Warner-Lambert in an

attempt to buy its way into the pharmaceuticals business. Not

surprisingly, the wheels came off again.

By the time of my election to CEO in 2000, most of P&G’s busi-

nesses were missing their goals, many by a wide margin. The com-

pany was overinvested and overextended. It was not winning with

those who mattered most—consumers and customers. When I vis-

ited all our top retailers in my first thirty days on the job, I found that

P&G was their biggest supplier but nowhere near their best sup-

plier. Consumers were abandoning P&G, as evidenced by declining

trial rates and market share on most of our leading brands.

I was determined to get P&G’s strategy right. To me, right meant

that P&G would focus on achievable ways to win with the consum-

ers who mattered the most and against the very best competition.

It meant leaders would make real strategic choices (identifying

what they would do and not do, where they would play and not

play, and how specifically they would create competitive advan-

tage to win). And it meant that leaders at all levels of the company

would become capable strategists as well as capable operators.

I was going to teach strategy until P&G was excellent at it.

I wanted my team to understand that strategy is disciplined

thinking that requires tough choices and is all about winning. Grow

or grow faster is not a strategy. Build market share is not a strategy.

Ten percent or greater earnings-per-share growth is not a strategy.

Beat XYZ competitor is not a strategy. A strategy is a coordinated

and integrated set of where-to-play, how-to-win, core capability, and

management system choices that uniquely meet a consumer’s

needs, thereby creating competitive advantage and superior value

for a business. Strategy is a way to win—and nothing less.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 50 11/6/12 8:17 PM

Chapter Three

Where to Play

F

or decades, Bounty was a stalwart brand for P&G. From the

1970s to the 1990s, television commercials featuring Nancy

Walker as a diner waitress (and paper towel aficionado) named

Rosie established the paper towel brand in the hearts and minds of

consumers. The ads’ tagline—“The quicker picker-upper”—was as

well known as American Express’s “Don’t leave home without it”

or Maxwell House’s “Good to the last drop.” A proprietary tech-

nology advantage meant that Bounty really was more absorbent

than competitive brands, and it became the leading paper towel

brand in North America. Even after Rosie retired, the brand con-

tinued to grow, adding a share point per year, like clockwork.

But by the late 1990s, the Bounty business was struggling.

North America had always been Bounty’s best and biggest market,

but as P&G focused on a globalization agenda, the tissue and towel

team (which was responsible for Bounty, Charmin toilet paper, and

Puffs facial tissues) had embarked on a global buying spree, acquir-

ing brands and manufacturing capacity in Europe, Asia, and Latin

America. The acquisitions consumed cash and constrained growth

and profitability in the core US market. By the time Charlie Pierce

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 51 11/6/12 8:18 PM

52 Playing to Win

came on as president of global family care (the renamed t issue and

towel business) in 2001, it was time to change course. As Pierce

puts it, “I think my job was to declare crisis.”1

The global expansion was clearly problematic, but so too was

the lack of strategic focus, particularly in R&D. The family-care

team, inspired by corporate stretch goals to think big, was work-

ing on tangential, white-space ideas, like plastic-wrap technology,

food containers, and paper plates. These new products might turn

out to be worthy initiatives, but they had little connection to bet-

ter paper towels, toilet paper, and facial tissue. Some of the team

had come to believe that global family care could never get great

financial returns from the structurally unattractive tissue and towel

business, so it looked to other products and segments for growth.

Pierce recalls his initial reaction: “If it is true that we can’t get a

decent return from the existing business, we should get out of the

business entirely.”

Was it true? P&G had made corporate where-to-play choices

to grow in and from the core; to extend into home-care, beauty,

health, and personal-care categories; and to build presence in

emerging markets. Across these choices, P&G believed it could

win through its ability to understand core consumers, by creating

and building differentiated brands, and through R&D, innovative

product design, global scale, and strong partnerships with both

suppliers and channel customers. All of this presented a challenge

for family care. In Europe, Asia, and Latin America, manufacturing

overcapacity and private-label dominance were turning the cate-

gory into a commodity. In emerging markets, prices and willing-

ness to pay were so low that brand differentiation conferred little

to no advantage. A niche strategy in emerging markets—to target

just those few customers who valued premium performance—

was nearly impossible because the capital requirements to make

paper products mean a business must have substantial scale to be

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 52 11/6/12 8:18 PM

Where to Play 53

economical. Yet, the idea of building a truly global tissue and towel

business was untenable.