SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Product Launch and Market Entry Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses P&G's strategy for launching a new air freshener product, Febreze, in a crowded market against established competitors.
KEYWORDS: product launch, market entry, air freshener, competitive strategy, Febreze
---

from soft surfaces. It wasn’t a totally new product, but really a bet-

ter air freshener—one that could actually remove odors rather than

covering them up.

Unfortunately, the air-freshener segment had two large

incumbent players in Reckitt-Benckiser (maker of Air Wick) and

SC Johnson (Glade). This was a core strategic category for both

companies; they weren’t willing to sell their established brands to

P&G and it was a category they would likely defend at all costs

against a new entrant. So, in terms of how to win, the question was

how best to introduce this new technology in a way that would

prove its effectiveness to consumers, build a strong, differentiated

brand, and avoid the competitive walled cities in air-freshening and

deodorizing at the outset.

Ultimately, Febreze was a product technology in search of a

job to be done. To have the best chance to win, the home-care team

elected to start in P&G’s home court, with laundry—positioning

the new technology as a laundry additive that would attack odors.

The team then attacked sequentially along the lines of least to

more resistance: as a refresher for curtains, carpets, and upholstery

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 90 11/6/12 8:19 PM

How to Win 91

around the home; as a deodorizer for other malodorous objects

around the home, like running shoes and sports equipment; and

finally as an air deodorizer and freshener. Along the way, P&G

acquired AmbiPur from Sara Lee to expand the superior Febreze

technology faster into Europe and certain emerging markets.

Overall, it took a decade to build Febreze to leadership where it

chose to play.

The fine-fragrances business, as detailed in chapter 3, is another

example of the power of integrated where-to-play and how-to-

win choices. P&G fell into the fine-fragrance business through an

acquisition, but once there, the company thought long and hard

about how to win. Rather than accept the rules of the game (a highly

seasonal business with a push-and-churn approach to brands and

little opportunity to bring P&G’s consumer insights, brand build-

ing, and go-to-market capabilities to bear), the fine-fragrances

team found new ways to win. Like the home-care team, it attacked

in an area of least resistance—men’s fragrances and younger, sport-

ier scents, rather than in the heart of the most intense competition

in women’s prestige brands. The team found new ways to win by

creating brands based on specific consumer needs and wants, part-

nering in distinctively successful ways with fragrance houses and

designers. In doing so, the fine-fragrance business became part of

P&G’s larger how-to-win strategy, another way to differentiate

brands along a dimension that consumers care about and to lever-

age the benefits of global scale.

It is tempting to believe that strategy in general, and where-

to-play and how-to-win choices in particular, are needed only for

outward-facing functions—those folks who interact with external

consumers and competitors. But every line of business and func-

tion should have a strategy—one that aligns with the strategy of

the company overall and decides where to play and how to win

specifically for its context. At P&G, corporate functions are all

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 91 11/6/12 8:19 PM

92 Playing to Win

tasked with crafting their own strategies in this way. Joan Lewis,

global consumer market knowledge officer, explains: “Where to

play and how to win has been a very important framework for us.

Organizations are often good at one or the other without realiz-

ing that they’re two different sets of decisions. At one point, we

weren’t as disciplined about our where-to-play choices. It was

everywhere anybody needed consumer insight or anywhere we

thought it could add value. Just like a business dilutes its focus and

in turn its growth potential when you try to do too many things at

a time or do things that are further away from your core strengths,

we were relatively diluted in the nature of the impact we could

have.”4

So, Lewis and her team worked to think more critically about

their strategy, considering “what kinds of company decisions or

individual business decisions we are aiming to influence: those

where consumer understanding is a key driver for company suc-

cess. We made a clear where-to-play commitment to the company.

Then we structured how to win, how to deliver against our where-

to-play commitment,” Lewis recounts. “The way I think of our

how-to-win, from an organizational standpoint, is in two parts.

One is the actual capability in the specific kinds of consumer and

market research and test methods we use to answer business ques-

tions. Then, what is the best organizational structure to deliver—

how much is embedded in the business, how much is corporate,

what is scaled, and what is highly tailored?” P&G could have hired

a leading research agency and outsourced everything. Instead,

because consumer insights are so crucial to its how-to-win choices

as a company, P&G kept the intellectual capital in-house, where

Lewis’s group designs new and customized test methods to suit

specific needs, and outsources industry-standard research, like sur-

veys and focus groups. Lewis and her team determine what win-

ning looks like for their function, keeping their internal customers

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 92 11/6/12 8:19 PM

How to Win 93

and the full marketplace in mind. This approach enables them to

make smarter day-to-day decisions on the basis of an overriding

strategy and to build the strongest consumer-insights capability in

the industry.

The best-of-breed outsourcing strategy for P&G’s GBS dem-

onstrates the power of thinking through where to play and how