SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Consumer Product Strategy
SUMMARY: The text analyzes the strategic challenges faced by P&G in the baby diaper market, highlighting the competitive nature of the industry and the importance of making winning choices to sustain competitive advantage.
KEYWORDS: baby diapers, consumer product strategy, competitive advantage, disruptive innovation, market leadership
---

consumers, it would have embraced pull-ons and turned the last

two decades into a three-way competition in that segment.

The P&G baby diaper saga is full of strategic challenges occa-

sioned by disruptive product designs and technologies, by very

different readings of the consumer, and by competitors’ strate-

gic choices that changed the game. But it is still a winnable cat-

egory for P&G, with the right strategic thinking. Pampers today

is an $8 billion business with a leading share of the $25 billion

global disposable baby diaper market (over 30 percent, versus

Kimberly-Clark’s Huggies, with around 20 percent share), in large

part because of P&G diaper leadership in Europe and other mar-

kets, where the company stayed single-mindedly focused on the

Pampers brand franchise. The business is a significant engine of

growth and value creation. Sometimes, P&G has gotten it right.

In all my business life, I have never seen any more competitive

industry than baby care. Consumers are demanding and discrimi-

nating, and they turn over quickly—it’s a whole new consumer base

every three years. Baby diapers are one of the most expensive

items—if not the most expensive item—in a parent’s shopping

basket every week. Competition is intense. Retailers are competi-

tors; virtually every major retailer targets young families as a prime

prospect, and most offer their own private-label brand of diapers.

The market is big and growing steadily in emerging markets, where

there is a huge potential to serve babies who will begin life using

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 102 11/6/12 8:19 PM

How to Win 103

cloth or no diapers at all. The bets are big too; this is a high-c apital

business where product and machine obsolescence is a contin-

ual threat. It demands winning choices that sustain c ompetitive

advantage long enough to produce significant value creation. The

baby diapers war will go on. The best strategies will win.

a. The Pampers story has been told several times from different vantage

points. See Oscar Schisgall, Eyes on Tomorrow (Chicago: G. Ferguson, 1981),

216–220; Davis Dyer, Frederick Dalzell, and Rowena Olegario, Rising Tide: Les-

sons from 165 Years of Brand Building at Procter & Gamble (Boston: Harvard

Business School Press, 2004), 230–239; and John E. Pepper, What Really

Matters: Service, Leadership, People, and Values (New Haven, CT: Yale Univer-

sity Press, 2007).

b. Pepper, What Really Matters.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 103 11/6/12 8:19 PM

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 104 11/6/12 8:19 PM

Chapter Five

Play to Your Strengths

M

ost corporate mergers fail to create value. The bigger the deal,

the less likely it seems to produce success. There are many

cautionary tales, including AOL Time Warner, D aimlerChrysler,

Sprint-Nextel, and Quaker-Snapple. In each instance, promised

synergies failed to materialize, value was destroyed rather than cre-

ated, and shares plummeted. In the case of Snapple, Quaker paid

$1.7 billion for the brand in 1995, promising to turn it into the next

Gatorade. Less than three years later, Quaker unloaded a much-

diminished Snapple for just $300 million. Time Warner valued

AOL at approximately $190 billion at the time of their merger and

just ten years later spun it off for a mere $3 billion.1

So how did P&G’s 2005 acquisition of Gillette manage to buck

the trend? The merger was no simpler. In fact, it was relatively

complex, as the Sunday Times of London explains: “$11 billion of

Gillette sales combined with $57 billion of P&G business, 30,000

employees combining with 100,000 at P&G, on the ground in 80

countries, selling in 160.”2 Yet, the acquisition delivered over $2

billion in cost synergies in two years and continues to deliver sig-

nificant revenue synergies after integration. Gillette was P&G’s

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 105 11/7/12 1:18 AM

106 Playing to Win

biggest value-creating acquisition by a wide margin, comfortably

exceeding the value creation promised to shareholders.

The roots of the acquisition’s success go back to the initial con-

sideration of the opportunity. As Clayt Daley, who retired as chief

financial officer in 2009, explains, P&G had three relevant crite-

ria for any acquisition. First, any acquisition had to be “growth

accretive—in a market that was growing (and likely to continue

growing) faster than the average in its space and in a category or

segment, geography or channel where we thought that we could

grow as fast as the market, if not faster.”3 This was the first, and

most obvious, hurdle. Second, the acquisition had to be structur-

ally attractive—a business “that tended to have gross and oper-

ating margins above the industry or company average. We were

looking for businesses that could generate strong, free cash flow.”

Free cash flow was an important driver of value creation for P&G

corporately. Once those two hurdles were cleared, there was a

final c riterion—one that too few companies consider systemati-

cally: how the potential acquisition would fit with the company’s

strategy—its winning aspiration, its choices about where to play

and how to win, its capabilities, and its management systems.

Gillette had powerful brands (like Mach 3, Venus, and Oral B)

that would importantly add to the P&G beauty and personal-care

businesses. And it contributed significant cash flow. But, as Daley

explains, “then you get into ‘what did P&G bring to the party?

How good of a fit are they with our sources of competitive advan-

tage?’” The fit was quite good: in terms of where to play, Gillette