SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning
SUMMARY: This text discusses the traditional approach to strategy development, which involves rigorous data analysis, generating options, and selling the chosen strategy to the organization.
KEYWORDS: strategic planning, strategy development, traditional approach, data analysis, organizational buy-in
---

sis, but even still, a successful outcome is not guaranteed. In the

end, building a strategy isn’t about achieving perfection; it’s about

shortening your odds.

Generating Buy-In: The Traditional Approach

In a typical strategy process, participants seek to find the single

right answer, build unassailable arguments to support it, and sell

it to the rest of the organization (figure 8-1). At the beginning, an

internal project team or an external consultant, or both, will set out

to rigorously analyze everything they can to ferret out answers

about the world—what consumers want, the competitive dynam-

ics of the industry, and so on. Or perhaps the team already has a

view as to what the right answer will be, so it conducts analyses

that are designed to confirm the hypothesis. Either way, a dive into

the data is the starting point.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 183 11/6/12 8:22 PM

184 Playing to Win

At some point, through the cloud of data, a few plausible

strategic options emerge. Because there is intense pressure to be

practical, creativity is tacitly discouraged throughout the option-

generation process. The team sees it as its job to ensure that all of

the options will ultimately be actionable. The implication is that

unexpected (even wild) strategic options and creative ideas will

slow down the process and add no value—and might become

dangerous if momentum is built behind them. So there is a drive

to expected, straightforward options that stay relatively close to

home. Then, the options are typically assessed using a single met-

ric: the financial plausibility test. A high net present value or inter-

nal rate of return helpfully buttresses the claim that a particular

option is the best choice.

At this stage, arguments often ensue as to which truly is the

superior option, with each side dipping into the vast body of anal-

ysis for proof or tweaking the assumptions behind the financial

metric. To create a consensus, the team makes a series of compro-

mises to bring key managers on-side. The compromise option

is then taken to senior management (or the board of directors),

where it is aggressively sold as the right answer. With perhaps a

little more compromising to get senior managers on board, the

choice is given final approval and the strategy is rolled out to

the organization.

The problems with this traditional approach are numerous.

First, it is expensive and time-consuming to analyze everything

up front. The analysis itself tends to be scattershot and superfi-

cial, because there is so much material to cover. Plus, because so

many different analyses are being conducted, they are often done

independently of one another, making it difficult to see the whole

picture at any point. Hard feelings tend to emerge as individuals

advocate for one choice or another and feel marginalized if their

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 184 11/6/12 8:22 PM

Shorten Your Odds 185

Figure 8-1

generating buy-in

Study lots of things

Develop salable

options

Forecast financials

for options

Get consensus

of key managers

Polish the proposal

Sell hard to

senior management

Tell the organization

to execute the plan

option doesn’t make the cut. Since the goal is for everyone to

buy in, weak compromises are made instead of real, hard choices.

Creativity is discouraged; the pressure to converge on an answer

on the basis of existing data eliminates the possibilities that are off

the mainstream path. The buy-in process is long and tedious, yet

it often results in only the appearance of concurrence, followed

by foot-dragging by those who never truly bought in. And senior

management is engaged only at the end of the process, after the

strategy is buttoned up, which means that these leaders’ experi-

ence, insights, and ideas are barely taken into account (if at all).

In all, it is a painful and unproductive process that produces few

powerful choices. No wonder managers have little enthusiasm for

the strategy process.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 185 11/6/12 8:22 PM

186 Playing to Win

Asking the Right Question

Asking a single question can change everything: what would have

to be true? This question helpfully focuses the analysis on the

things that matter. It creates room for inquiry into ideas, rather

than advocacy of positions. It encourages a broader consideration

of more options, particularly unpredictable ones. It provides room

to explore ideas before the team settles on a final answer. It dra-

matically reduces intrateam tension and conflict, during decision

making and afterward. It turns unproductive conflict into healthy

tension focused on finding the best strategic approach. And it leads

to clear strategic choices at the end.

We all ultimately want to find the strategy that is best for our

business. Rather than asking individuals to find that answer for them-

selves and then fight it out, this approach enables the team to uncover

the strongest option together. A standard process is characterized by

arguments about what is true. By turning instead to exploring what

would have to be true, teams go from battling one another to work-

ing together to explore ideas. Rather than attempting to bury real

disagreements, this approach surfaces differences and resolves them,

resulting in more-robust strategies and stronger commitment to them.

The process for exploring what would have to be true has seven

specific steps, as seen in figure 8-2. It begins with framing the fun-

damental choice, articulating at least two different ways forward

for the organization (or category, function, brand, product, etc.),

on the basis of your winning aspiration. Then, the team works to

brainstorm a wider variety of possible strategic choices, different