SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for retailers to improve shelf availability, develop differentiated shopping solutions, and win with leading retailers.
KEYWORDS: retail, shelf availability, differentiated shopping, winning retailers
---

growth

3. Be the choice of

retailers

• Improve shelf

availability and ser-

vice

• Develop

differentiated

shopping solutions

• Win with the winners

your human resources toward the strategic priorities? The OGSM

became the foundation of all manner of discussions, effectively

grounding capital allocation, branding, resourcing, and innovation

strategies in where to play and how to win.

The OGSM, new strategy review meeting structure, and inquiry

culture were the foundations of P&G’s new system for creating,

reviewing, and communicating strategy. The OGSM enabled teams

and individuals to share a strategic point of r eference and to capture

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 140 11/6/12 8:20 PM

Manage What Matters 141

the most important strategy themes in a single document. The new

meeting structure, as part of an annual pattern of meetings and inter-

actions on strategy, created a new norm for communication between

leaders and their teams throughout the organization. A culture of

inquiry surfaced productive tensions and enabled deep c onversations

that advanced strategic thinking. But the company also needed

mechanisms for communicating the core of the P&G strategy to the

entire global organization. Rather than relying on a trickle-down

method, in which the CEO communicated to presidents, who com-

municated to general managers, and so on, we thought long and hard

about how to frame messages for the whole organization.

Communicating the Strategy

Strategy is formulated at all levels of the organization, and to be

successful, it needs to be clearly communicated at all levels as well.

The businesses must communicate their strategies to management

(in P&G’s case, through reviews and the OGSM), but management

must also communicate the company-level choices to the whole

organization. The challenge is to find simple, clear, and compelling

ways to do so. A massive binder or thick PowerPoint deck won’t

rally an organization. So it is important to think explicitly about

the core of a strategy and the best way to communicate its essence

broadly and clearly. Ask, what are the critical strategic choices that

everyone in the organization should know and understand?

At P&G, it boiled down to three themes that would enable the

company to win, in the places and ways it had chosen, regardless of

the details of individual differences between businesses:

1. Make the consumer the boss.

2. Win the consumer value equation.

3. Win the two most important moments of truth.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 141 11/6/12 8:20 PM

142 Playing to Win

These ideas flowed directly from the corporate-level strategic

choice cascade. The first dictum, that the consumer is boss, was a

reorientation to the company’s aspiration—to improve the lives of

consumers. We wanted everyone focused on the end consumer in all

aspects of the business: in innovation, branding, go-to-market strat-

egies, investment choices, and so on. We wanted to be clear about

just who the most important stakeholder is and always should be.

Not shareholders. Not employees. Not retail customers. But rather

the end user: the people who buy and use P&G products.

The second crucial theme was to win the consumer value

equation. This quickly and unambiguously defined the way that

P&G would win: by opening up a bigger gap between the value

it offers to consumers and the cost of delivering that value than

competitors’ gaps. This meant providing unique value to consum-

ers (through brand differentiation and innovative products). And

it meant maintaining a cost position that would let P&G offer that

value to the consumer at an attractive price and still make a healthy

profit. This edict turned everyone’s attention toward the where-to-

play and how-to-win choices that create sustainable competitive

advantage through differentiation.

The third and final message was the vital importance of win-

ning the two most important moments of truth.4 In consumer

terms, the notion behind moments of truth is that a company’s per-

formance is the sum total of all its interactions with its consumers,

the moments in which the brand promise is either realized or not

in the consumer’s mind. It is when the consumer enjoys the Gain

fragrance for the first time, when Tide with Bleach actually does

whiten his whites, and when Cover Girl LashBlast mascara dra-

matically lengthens the look of her lashes. It is when the product

experience reinforces the brand promise and helps start a first-time

purchaser down the path toward repurchase, regular usage, and,

ultimately, brand loyalty.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 142 11/6/12 8:20 PM

Manage What Matters 143

The notion that there are two crucial moments of truth—when

the consumer encounters the product in the store for the first

time and when he or she first uses at home—was significant for

P&G. Previously, the whole company had focused primarily on

that second moment—the at-home, in-use moment. We wanted to

highlight and elevate the significance of the first moment of truth,

illustrating just how important that in-store experience is to win-

ning. Is the product in stock? Is it prominently positioned on the

shelf? Does the packaging help the consumer understand the per-

formance promise and the value proposition? Is it merchandised

in a way that reinforces the brand promise and builds on it? Does

something in the merchandizing and in-store marketing compel

the consumer to pick up that product, rather than the one right

beside it or down the aisle? Indicating that winning would require

winning both of the first two moments of truth signaled an impor-

tant shift for the company. This message spoke to a broader set of

capabilities as the core of a winning strategy—not just brand build-