SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Channel Value Analysis
SUMMARY: The text discusses how a company can analyze the value provided to its channel customers and end consumers to inform its business strategy and decisions.
KEYWORDS: channel value equation, customer value analysis, channel customer, retailer, innovation
---

168 Playing to Win

bank, for example, which offers services directly to its consumers),

a direct-to-consumer or solely business-to-business firm can elim-

inate the channel box from the diagram.

In customer value analysis, the company assesses what its chan-

nel customers and end consumers really want and need, and what

value they derive from the firm’s products and services relative to

the costs they incur from buying and using the products or services.

For P&G, that means considering both its retail customers (like

Walmart, Kroger, and Walgreens) and the consumers who actually

buy and use the products. These two groups have different, and

sometimes contradictory, benefits and costs. It is essential to under-

stand both types of customers to make sense of and shape the full

value equation. Once the value equation is understood, options will

naturally begin to emerge for where to play and how to win.

Channel

For channel customers, profit margin, the ability to drive traf-

fic, trade terms, and delivery consistency all tend to play into the

value equation, along with many other variables that depend on the

nature of the business. An understanding of the channel customer

value equation can help inform both the businesses you should be

in and how you can win there.

Understanding the channel value equation was particularly help-

ful to repositioning in oral care for P&G. At one time, P&G’s non-

toothpaste oral-care products were not terribly appealing to the

retailers. Inexpensive toothbrushes and largely undifferentiated

rinses or flosses sold at lower volume than toothpastes did and at

a lower margin—which meant that retailers were fairly ambivalent

about them. Higher-end items, like electric toothbrushes, might have

offered attractive margins but little in the way of volume; they sat

for a long time on the shelves without turning or earning the retail-

ers that high margin. Retailers wanted products that would increase

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 168 11/6/12 8:21 PM

Think Through Strategy 169

the total amount spent on oral care per visit—in other words, a bal-

ance of profit and volume, driven by greater engagement with the

category overall. The answer was innovation—margin-boosting

differentiation on floss (through Teflon technology that would

enable the floss to easily slide between teeth without shredding) and

category-expanding products like the Crest SpinBrush (an affordable

power brush that represented a trade-up from manual brushes) and

Crest Whitestrips (a totally new consumer proposition for at-home

teeth whitening) that brought in entirely new spending.

The dynamics of channel value were also essential to the Olay

choice to stay in mass retail rather than moving up to department

stores. In department and specialty stores, the manufacturer staffs

its own mini beauty store within a larger retail format. Such a struc-

ture adds considerable complexity and lots of costs as the numer-

ous cosmetics and skin-care competitors ratchet up the grandeur

of their space and their level of staffing. Better to leverage existing

retail relationships, the team decided, working with these retail-

ers to create new value through an Olay premium-priced masstige

positioning, which traded up current mass customers and attracted

prestige customers from department and specialty stores. This strat-

egy created more volume, profit, and margin for the mass retailers.

Understanding customer value requires deep engagement. The

traditional approach of checking in with salespeople occasionally

to see what retailers are thinking and doing is no longer enough.

A much higher level of sophistication—and real commitment—is

required. Almost twenty years ago, P&G began integrating staff

from marketing, manufacturing, logistics, finance, IT, and human

resources into customer teams in customer business development

(P&G’s sales function). These teams were colocated near P&G’s

largest customers, like Walmart, Target, and Tesco. The post-1999

focus on core customers—those who accounted for an overwhelm-

ing share of P&G sales and profits—helped redefine the role of

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 169 11/6/12 8:21 PM

170 Playing to Win

these multifunctional customer teams. Their job was to understand

their customer so well that they could work collaboratively to

develop mutual business goals, joint value creation strategies, and

shared action plans to win. The focus of the combined customer

and P&G team was always on the how—whether it was identifying

how to take costs out of the supply chain or how to better serve a

customer’s shoppers to drive traffic and sales. This shared focus has

resulted in joint value creation—creating strategic payoffs both for

the customer and for P&G.

End Consumers

Understanding end consumers is a challenging thing, because you

can’t simply ask what they want, need, and value. Recall Henry

Ford’s famous quip that if, at the dawn of the automotive indus-

try, he’d asked consumers what they wanted, they would have said,

“A faster horse.” To understand the consumer value equation, you

must truly get to know your consumers—to engage with them

beyond the quantitative survey, through deeper, more personal

forms of research—watching them shop, listening to their stories,

visiting them at home to observe how they use and evaluate your

products. Only through this kind of deep user understanding can

you hope to generate insights about where to play and how to win.

So it was with baby diapers. By focusing entirely on technol-

ogy (making the diaper more and more absorbent), the category

had lost touch with mom. When it reengaged with her, the dia-

per team found out that while absorbency was important, so too

were a soft, cloth-like feel, easy-to-use tabs, a snug but comfort-

able waist, and even a fun design. It turned out that mothers valued

familiar characters, like the Sesame Street gang, over the nonde-

script cartoon bears P&G had been using. Understanding mothers

better also led the business to change how it “sized” the diapers,