SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Business Portfolio Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses how higher levels of aggregation in a business can provide value through shared activities, skills and knowledge transfer, and portfolio expansion or pruning.
KEYWORDS: portfolio management, business aggregation, shared capabilities, knowledge transfer, organizational reinforcing rods
---

of a shared activity. For example, the hair-care category can have

a research laboratory that does fundamental research on clean-

ing, conditioning, and styling, which, because of its massive

scale across all the hair brands, performs at a fraction of the cost

that it would take for Head & Shoulders to do on its own. The

technology advantage that is enabled through shared activities can

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 123 11/7/12 1:18 AM

124 Playing to Win

be powerful. The second way a higher level of aggregation can

provide value is through skills and knowledge transfer. For exam-

ple, if Head & Shoulders needs w ell-trained brand managers and

R&D managers to work in its business, and those can be provided

by the hair-care category, then this represents a valuable transfer of

skills to Head & Shoulders.

Management at the each level of aggregation should seek to

develop an activity system that focuses as exclusively as possible

on the key reinforcing rods through which that level has chosen

to add value to the levels below it. The aggregator’s primary job is

to help the level below compete more effectively through shared

activities and transfer of skills. This means having a clear view

of how the level wishes to add value and then focusing all of its

resources on doing so. Activities that don’t add value to activity

systems below should be minimized, because they destroy value.

For example, only if the hair-care category can demonstrate value

(from sharing of activities and transfer of skills) that is greater than

the financial and administrative costs that it imposes on Head &

Shoulders, Nice ’n Easy, Pantene, Herbal Essences, and so forth,

should it exist as a level of aggregation in the corporation. Other-

wise, the level should be eliminated.

3. Expand or Prune the Portfolio Below to Enhance Competitiveness

While the first job of each aggregation level is to develop capabili-

ties that support those levels below, the second job is to expand

and prune the lower-level portfolio on the basis of fit to broader

capabilities. With respect to enhancing the portfolio, consider the

organizational reinforcing rods—the capabilities that run through

and create advantage in the whole of your organization—and

determine whether the portfolio can be expanded into other busi-

nesses that would benefit competitively from those reinforcing

rods. The creation of the Swiffer and Febreze brands within P&G’s

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 124 11/7/12 1:18 AM

Play to Your Strengths 125

home-care category are excellent examples of expanding a portfo-

lio according to advantaged reinforcing rods in consumer under-

standing and innovation. Without the ability to understand unmet

consumer needs and innovate against them, neither product would

exist today.

Equally important is pruning of the portfolio below when

the benefits of the reinforcing rods cannot match the financial

and administrative costs of aggregation. These are businesses that

would be better off in another company’s portfolio or as indepen-

dent operations. P&G aggressively pruned businesses for which its

five corporate capabilities couldn’t assist substantially in generat-

ing competitive advantage, divesting about fifteen businesses a year

for ten years, between 2000 and 2009. Big, profitable brands such

as Folgers and Pringles had to go because they were not going to

benefit from company reinforcement enough to sustain competi-

tive advantage over the long term. Both had built strong brands,

but had limited opportunity for product innovation within P&G’s

mass channels of distribution.

Gillette: Reinforcing Rods

Why was the Gillette acquisition so successful for P&G? The

answer is reinforcing rods; the P&G reinforcing rods drove pow-

erfully through Gillette’s activity system, especially in its crown

jewel, the male shaving business. Strengths in all five core capabili-

ties enabled P&G to add value to the core Gillette business. By

bringing Gillette into the P&G portfolio, P&G was able to add real

value by sharing and transferring those capabilities.

Consider scale: both P&G and Gillette are major global adver-

tisers. Given the sheer size of Gillette’s media budget, you could

imagine that becoming part of P&G would have little effect on

its advertising costs. But as it turned out, P&G could replicate

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 125 11/7/12 1:18 AM

126 Playing to Win

Gillette’s premerger advertising program at 30 percent less, because

of P&G’s additional size and spending advantage. As the largest

advertiser in the world, P&G confers the costs savings that accrue

from that position to Gillette.

In terms of go-to-market capability, P&G was able to fold

the Gillette brands into the multifunctional customer teams at

the world’s largest retailers, gaining both cost efficiencies and

additional leverage with the retailers. P&G also transferred its

industry-leading joint value-creation practices to Gillette, wherein

P&G works directly with retailers to design and implement cus-

tomer programs and partnerships that benefit both the retailers

and P&G.

In consumer understanding and innovation, P&G brought to

bear advanced consumer research techniques and a more globally

dispersed innovation capability to enhance the level and quality of

innovation (as with the new razor for the Indian market). Plus, the

GBS team innovated in terms of structures and processes to finish the

integration quickly and effectively, minimizing costs and f rustration.

Of course, Gillette had its own capabilities that could

strengthen P&G’s capabilities during and after the integration.

Gillette is one of the best in the world at launching new prod-

ucts, leveraging targeted marketing, and in-store merchandising

to generate high levels of consumer trial. It was also advantaged

in its in-store display capabilities, adapting its visuals and shelv-

ing approach effectively in almost any format or space in a store.