SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of making clear 'where-to-play' and 'how-to-win' choices to translate a company's strategic vision into actionable plans.
KEYWORDS: strategic vision, strategic choices, where-to-play, how-to-win
---

Too many top managers believe their strategy job is largely

done when they share their aspiration with employees. Unfor-

tunately, nothing happens after that. Without explicit where-

to-play and how-to-win choices connected to the aspiration, a

vision is frustrating and ultimately unfulfilling for employees.

The company needs where and how choices in order to act.

Without them, it can’t win. The next chapter will turn to the

question of where to play.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 46 11/6/12 8:17 PM

What Is Winning 47

Winning AspirAtion Dos AnD Don’ts

3 Do play to win, rather than simply to compete. Define

winning in your context, painting a picture of a brilliant,

successful future for the organization.

3 Do craft aspirations that will be meaningful and powerful

to your employees and to your consumers; it isn’t about

finding the perfect language or the consensus view, but is

about connecting to a deeper idea of what the organiza-

tion exists to do.

3 Do start with consumers, rather than products, when

thinking about what it means to win.

3 Do set winning aspirations (and make the other four

choices) for internal functions and outward-facing brands

and business lines. Ask, what is winning for this func-

tion? Who are its customers, and what does it mean to

win with them?

3 Do think about winning relative to competition. Think

about your traditional competitors, and look for unex-

pected “best” competitors too.

3 Don’t stop here. Aspirations aren’t strategy; they are

merely the first box in the choice cascade.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 47 11/6/12 8:17 PM

48 Playing to Win

strAtegy As Winning

A.G. Lafley

In my now forty-plus years in business, I have found that most

leaders do not like to make choices. They’d rather keep their

options open. Choices force their hands, pin them down, and

generate an uncomfortable degree of personal risk. I’ve also

found that few leaders can truly define winning. They generally

speak of short-term financial measures or a simple share of

a narrowly defined market. In effect, by thinking about options

instead of choices and failing to define winning robustly, these

leaders choose to play but not to win. They wind up settling for

average industry results at best.

The P&G I joined in the late 1970s was not very good at mak-

ing choices and defining winning. In June 1977, I reported for

duty as a brand assistant in the US laundry division, affection-

ately known as Big Soap. At the time, P&G sold fifteen laun-

dry detergent and laundry soap brands and five dish detergent

brands, considerably more than consumers needed or wanted,

and more than its retail customers could profitably distribute,

merchandise, and sell. Today, P&G has five laundry and three

dish brands. Meanwhile, the business has consistently grown

its net sales, market share, gross and operating margin, and

value creation. Most importantly, P&G became the clear-cut

leader in the US market. Once-formidable competitors Colgate-

Palmolive and Unilever have effectively exited the categories in

the United States; they’ve turned their remaining brands into

contract-manufactured store brands, which in most cases are

a weak third player to P&G and private-label brands. P&G’s vic-

tory in the North American laundry category is the culmination of

a series of clear, connected, and mutually reinforcing strategic

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 48 11/6/12 8:17 PM

What Is Winning 49

choices that began to be made in the early 1980s. A series of

sector, category, and brand leaders have committed to winning

in this category and have successfully found ways to do so.

Even as P&G got better at defining winning at the brand and

category level, it hasn’t always had the same clarity at the com-

pany level, which has resulted in periods of underperformance.

In the early 1980s, company leadership was frustrated by slow-

ing top-line volume and sales growth rates and gave the direction

to stimulate top-line growth organically and through acquisition.

Without a clear strategy as to where to play or how to win, the

result was a mishmash of acquisitions that never returned the

cost of capital (Orange Crush, Ben Hill Griffin, Bain de Soleil,

et al.) and a raft of failed new brands and new products, includ-

ing Abound, Citrus Hill, Cold Snap, Encaprin, Solo, and Vibrant. In

1984–1985, the company experienced its first down profit year

since World War II. In 1986, it took its first major restructuring

and write-off. At that point, the call went out to Michel Porter and

Monitor. It was P&G’s first experience with business strategy, and

I was fortunate to be one of the guinea pigs in Porter’s first class.

Unfortunately, the first inoculation didn’t take. When the busi-

ness began to get better, thanks to another major restructuring

and stronger international growth, and the short-term financial

results began to improve, P&G forgot most of what it had learned.

When top-line growth slowed again in the late 1990s, the com-

pany reverted to the same helter-skelter, new-categories and

new-brands, and M&A approach. This time, the bets were even

bigger on new products and new technologies, including robots

to clean homes, paper cups and plates, even new retail for-

mats. And acquisitions ranged more broadly, including the PUR

water company and the Iams pet food company. P&G seriously

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 49 11/6/12 8:17 PM

50 Playing to Win

looked at Eastman Kodak Company, lost an auction to Pfizer for