SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning
SUMMARY: The text defines strategy as a set of integrated choices that uniquely position a firm to create sustainable advantage and superior value.
KEYWORDS: strategy, strategic choices, competitive advantage, value proposition, winning aspiration
---

defined. It is a set of choices about winning. Again, it is an inte-

grated set of choices that uniquely positions the firm in its industry

so as to create sustainable advantage and superior value relative to

the competition. Specifically, strategy is the answer to these five

interrelated questions:

1. What is your winning aspiration? The purpose of your

enterprise, its motivating aspiration.

2. Where will you play? A playing field where you can

achieve that aspiration.

3. How will you win? The way you will win on the chosen

playing field.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 14 11/6/12 8:13 PM

Strategy Is Choice 15

4. What capabilities must be in place? The set and configura-

tion of capabilities required to win in the chosen way.

5. What management systems are required? The systems

and measures that enable the capabilities and support the

choices.

These choices and the relationship between them can be under-

stood as a reinforcing cascade, with the choices at the top of the

cascade setting the context for the choices below, and choices at the

bottom influencing and refining the choices above (figure 1-1).

In a small organization, there may well be a single choice cas-

cade that defines the set of choices for the entire organization. But

in larger companies, there are multiple levels of choices and inter-

connected cascades. At P&G, for instance, there is a brand-level

FIGURE 1-1

An integrated cascade of choices

The right playing field:

What is our • Where we will compete: our geographies,

winning product categories, consumer segments,

aspiration? channels, vertical stages of production

The purpose Where will we

of the enterprise: play?

• Our guiding

The set of capabilities

aspirations

required to win:

How will we

• Our reinforcing activities

win? • Our specific configuration

What

The unique right to win:

capabilities

• Our value proposition

must be in

• Our competitive advantage

place?

What

management

systems are

required?

The support systems:

• Systems, structures, and measures

required to support our choices

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 15 11/6/12 8:13 PM

16 Playing to Win

strategy that articulates the five choices for a brand such as Olay

or Pampers. There is a category strategy that covers multiple

related brands, like skin care or diapers. There is a sector strat-

egy that covers multiple categories, for example, beauty or baby

care. And finally, there is a strategy at the company level, too. Each

strategy influences and is influenced by the choices above and

below it; company-level where-to-play choices, for instance, guide

choices at the sector level, which in turn affect the category-level

and brand-level choices. And the brand-level choices influence the

category-level choices, which influence the sector- and company-

level choices. The result is a set of nested cascades that cover the

full organization (figure 1-2).

The nested cascades mean that choices happen at every level of

the organization. Consider a company that designs, manufactures,

and sells yoga apparel. It aspires to create fierce brand advocates,

to make a difference in the world, and to make money doing it.

FIGURE 1-2

Nested choice cascades

Corporate-level Winning

cascade aspiration

Where

to play

How to

Strategic group Winning win

cascade aspiration Capabilities

Where

to play Management

How to systems

Individual Winning win

business cascade aspiration Capabilities

Where

to play Management

How to systems

win

Capabilities

Management

systems

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 16 11/6/12 8:13 PM

Strategy Is Choice 17

It chooses to play in its own retail stores, with athletic wear for

women. It decides to win on the basis of performance and style. It

creates yoga gear that is both technically superior (in terms of fit,

flex, wear, moisture wicking, etc.) and utterly cool. It turns over its

stock frequently to create a feeling of exclusivity and scarcity. It

draws customers into the store with staff members who have deep

expertise. It defines a number of capabilities essential to winning,

like product and store design, customer service, and supply-chain

expertise. It creates sourcing and design processes, training systems

for staff, and logistics management systems. All of these choices

are made at the top of the organization.

But these choices beget more choices in the rest of the organi-

zation. Should the product team stay only in clothing or expand

to accessories? Should it play in menswear as well? Should the

retail operations group stay in bricks and mortar or expand online?

Within retail, should there be one store model or several to adapt

to different geographies and customer segments? At the store level,

how should the staff person serve the customer, here and now, in

order to win? Each level in the organization has its own strategic

choice cascade.

Consider the salesperson in the Manhattan store. She defines

winning as being the best salesperson in the store and having cus-

tomers who are delighted with her service. From not only her daily

sales numbers but also her interactions with repeat customers and

feedback from her peers, she knows she’s succeeding. Her where-

to-play choice is largely defined by the folks who walk in the door,

but she may notice that there are types of customers, times of day,

or parts of the store where she can best bring her skills to bear.

She consequently turns her attention there. In terms of how to

win, she may have one approach for customers who are new to

yoga and intimidated by all the choices (offering advice not just

on attire but on how to get started, as well as reassurance that it