SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Decision Making
SUMMARY: The text describes a step-by-step process for systematically evaluating and selecting strategic choices by framing options, exploring possibilities, and testing key assumptions.
KEYWORDS: strategic decision-making, reverse engineering, possibility exploration, assumption testing
---

obvious choice.

That, in sum, is the process for choosing between possibilities

for where to play and how to win. First, frame a choice. Second,

explore possibilities to broaden the set of mutually exclusive possi-

bilities. Third, for each possibility, ask, what would have to be true

for this to be a great idea, using the logic flow framework to struc-

ture your thinking. Fourth, determine which of the conditions is

the least likely to actually hold true. Fifth, design tests against those

crucial barriers to choice. Six, conduct tests. Finally, in light of the

outcome of the tests and how those outcomes stack up against pre-

determined standards of proof, select the best strategic choice pos-

sibility. This process broadens the possibilities up front and then

systematically narrows the field. It leverages different perspectives

to enrich the discussion, rather than bogging it down.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 200 11/6/12 8:22 PM

Shorten Your Odds 201

ReveRse-engineeRing Dos anD Don’ts

✓ ✓ Don’t spend a lot of time up front analyzing everything

you can; instead, use reverse engineering to pinpoint only

what you really need to know.

✓ ✓ Do frame a clear and important choice up front; make it

real and significant.

✓ ✓ Do explore a wide range of where-to-play and how-to-win

possibilities, rather than narrowing the list early on to

those that feel realistic; unexpected possibilities often

have interesting and helpful elements that can otherwise

be dismissed out of hand. Learn from them.

✓ ✓ Do stay focused on the most important question (what

would have to be true for this to be a winning possibility?),

listing the conditions under which this possibility would be

a really good one.

✓ ✓ Don’t forget to go back and eliminate any nice-to-have

conditions; every condition should be truly binding—if it

weren’t true, you wouldn’t pursue the possibility.

✓ ✓ Do encourage skeptics to express concerns at the specify-

barriers stage; have them articulate the precise nature of

their concerns about specific conditions.

✓ ✓ Don’t have proponents of a given possibility set and per-

form the tests; ask the skeptics to do it. If the skeptics

are satisfied in the end, everyone else will be too.

✓ ✓ Do test the biggest barrier first. Start with the condition

the group feels is least likely to be true. If it isn’t true, the

conditions required do not hold and you can stop testing.

✓ ✓ Do use a facilitator to run the reverse-engineering pro-

cess; it helps to have someone to attend to process and

group dynamics as you work through the thinking tasks.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 201 11/6/12 8:22 PM

202 Playing to Win

the Most iMpoRtant Question in stRategy

Roger L. Martin

The biggest lessons can come from the biggest mistakes. In the

realm of strategy, mine sure did. The most demoralizing experi-

ence in my consulting career became my most important lesson.

In 1990, I was working with the newly appointed CEO of a

regional consumer products company. The firm (unnamed here,

for obvious reasons) had dominant market share in its relatively

small market. During the engagement, an investment bank

approached the CEO with a chance to bid for the leading compet-

itor in a contiguous region. The target had been acquired several

years earlier in a leveraged buy-out for a price of $180 million.

The company was now being offered at $120 million. Intrigued,

the CEO asked me to conduct an analysis of the opportunity.

My team performed a detailed analysis and came to the

conclusion that the acquisition was a bad idea. The competi-

tive dynamics of the target’s regional market suggested a bleak

future for the offered firm. While the target did have the leading

share, its position was being rapidly eroded by a new low-cost

entrant that had turned a happy duopoly into a tough three-way

battle. This was an industry in which only the top two players

tended to make decent returns, because of the scale economies

of distribution, and the target was arguably the most vulnerable

of the three players. No wonder the buy-out firm was attempting

to unload it at a substantial loss. My client was tempted by the

discounted price tag, but even at $120 million, this was clearly a

very bad idea—and we told him so in our presentation.

The CEO acted on our analysis and told the investment bank-

ers that he’d pass on the opportunity. So far, so good. However,

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 202 11/6/12 8:22 PM

Shorten Your Odds 203

about a year later, the CEO called to inform me that he could now

acquire the target for a pittance—just $20 million. I begged him

not to do it until I updated the analysis, and he agreed to give

me the weekend. I dived back in. One more year of market share

and financial information confirmed to me that the target was in

a death spiral. While it had made a profit in 1990, I projected

that by 1992, it would be in a loss position. I couldn’t see any

way that the end could be stopped or even slowed.

I came back with a deck of about a hundred slides. The cover

note was succinct and to the point: “Your answer should be ‘no’

at any price. If you buy this, you will destroy the company and

your career. Please don’t do it. Please just say no.”

He said yes. He bought the company at $20 million. At that