SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Mergers and Acquisitions
SUMMARY: The analysis examines the strategic fit and value creation considerations in Procter & Gamble's acquisition of Gillette, a successful company.
KEYWORDS: merger, acquisition, strategic fit, value creation, Procter & Gamble
---

businesses. And it contributed significant cash flow. But, as Daley

explains, “then you get into ‘what did P&G bring to the party?

How good of a fit are they with our sources of competitive advan-

tage?’” The fit was quite good: in terms of where to play, Gillette

provided the leading male and female shaving brands and the lead-

ing toothbrush business in the world, all large enough to instantly

become core businesses for P&G. Gillette also fit well with the

strategic choice to grow in the beauty-care and personal-care cat-

egories. Plus, geographically, it offered complementary strengths

in emerging markets, providing leadership positions in countries

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 106 11/7/12 1:18 AM

Play to Your Strengths 107

where P&G was building presence (like Brazil, India, and R ussia).

On how to win, Gillette’s brand-building expertise, product inno-

vation, core technologies, and retail merchandising mastery aligned

well with P&G’s company-level choices.

But there was still more to consider. “At the end of the day,”

Daley continues, “it really comes down to, are you, as an acquirer,

going to bring value to that acquisition or not? The acquisition

is only really successful if you’re a better owner of the business

than either the previous owner or the company as an independent

company. That usually gets down to your capabilities, in our case,

your consumer capabilities, your branding capabilities, your R&D

capabilities, your go-to-market capabilities, your global infra-

structure, your back office. Are the capabilities and strengths that

you’re bringing to the business going to improve it, grow it faster,

and create more value than it did before?” In short, strategic fit

between the new business and P&G capabilities was critical.

Gillette and the Strategic Choice Cascade

Chip Bergh, then P&G’s president of men’s grooming, oversaw

the Gillette global business unit (GBU) integration (along with

Bob McDonald, who led the global market development organiza-

tion [MDO] integration and Filippo Passerini, who led back-end

integration). Bergh recalls, “Unlike a lot of acquisitions, it wasn’t

a successful company buying an unsuccessful company. It was a

successful company buying a successful company.”4 Bergh was

the first P&G person on the ground at Gillette, heading to Boston

just ten days after the deal closed. “A big part of my job initially

was helping Gillette plug into P&G, connecting the pipes, making

sure that everything was working, keeping the business going, and

working with the Gillette CEO, Jim Kilts, and the leadership team,

while also learning their business from them.”

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 107 11/7/12 1:18 AM

108 Playing to Win

Nine months later, Bergh officially took over the blades and

razors business. First, “we went to work on Gillette’s male groom-

ing strategy,” he recalls. “There was a lot to love about the busi-

ness, but I felt that there was a lot of opportunity too. I wanted to

use an off-site with the leadership team to send a signal that we’ve

got to protect all of the great things that have worked, but then

start really bringing to the party some of P&G’s core capabilities.

We were looking for ways that we could accelerate growth on this

very profitable and attractive business.” It was a matter of leverag-

ing Gillette and P&G capabilities and selectively creating new ones

where capabilities did not exist at the level required to win.

As discussed earlier, the five capabilities core to P&G’s where-

to-play and how-to-win choices are consumer understanding,

brand building, innovation, go-to-market ability, and global scale.

The notion of bringing these capabilities to bear on the Gillette

business was top of mind. From the first meeting post-acquisition,

Bergh set out to incorporate P&G’s strategy framework into the

Gillette DNA, working to articulate Gillette’s choice cascade.

Once the where-to-play and how-to-win choices were clear, the

team could turn its attention to the capabilities required to deliver

on those choices.

Soon an explicit where-to-play and how-to-win strategy for

Gillette as part of P&G emerged. The first choice was to get back

into a clear-cut winning position with male shaving systems, lever-

aging Gillette Fusion, a top-end product about to be launched. The

second was to extend the Gillette brand into men’s personal-care

items, like deodorants and shampoo, building on P&G’s innova-

tive beauty and personal-care product technologies. Third was to

win in women’s hair removal too, across wet shaving, epilators,

and depilatories. The fourth strategic priority for Gillette was to

stimulate consumption by expanding into emerging markets in

general and to India in particular.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 108 11/7/12 1:18 AM

Play to Your Strengths 109

Gillette would need specific capabilities to deliver on these

choices. As with diapers, a where-to-play choice that included the

developing world demanded a thoughtful how-to-win choice suit-

able for that context. Gillette needed a razor that would uniquely

meet the needs of consumers in the developing world. To get there,

the team would have to bring P&G’s deep consumer understand-

ing and world-leading innovation into play.

P&G’s deep-dive ethnographic approach to consumer research

(which relies on in-store and in-home observation and qualitative

assessments) was largely new to Gillette, which had relied much

more heavily on standard quantitative research. Bergh encouraged

his team to think differently about the emerging-market consumer.

He recalls a meeting in Boston that launched Gillette’s first-ever

design-from-scratch innovation for emerging markets, with a

focus, in this case, on India. The group included, he says, “scien-

tists from the Reading Technical Centre in the UK, our upstream

innovation lab outside of London, scientists from Boston, market-

ing people, and market-research people, all together for a three-