SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Corporate Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how Procter & Gamble (P&G) leveraged its core capabilities to successfully acquire and integrate Gillette, highlighting the importance of aligning capabilities with strategic choices.
KEYWORDS: corporate acquisition, capability-based strategy, activity system, competitive advantage, strategic alignment
---

ucts, leveraging targeted marketing, and in-store merchandising

to generate high levels of consumer trial. It was also advantaged

in its in-store display capabilities, adapting its visuals and shelv-

ing approach effectively in almost any format or space in a store.

Acquiring Gillette helped P&G up its own marketing and mer-

chandising games.

Already a great company, Gillette was a successful acquisi-

tion because it benefited dramatically from the five core capabili-

ties of P&G. An additional advantage was that Gillette already had

substantial capabilities of its own in those areas. The fit was very

good for the men’s and women’s shaving businesses and Oral B,

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 126 11/7/12 1:18 AM

Play to Your Strengths 127

and pretty good for Duracell. Braun (Gillette’s electric shaver and

small-appliance business) presented challenges. It didn’t benefit

as directly from P&G consumer understanding, R&D, and mass

retail distribution. The difference between the value created with

male shaving on one end of the spectrum and Braun on the other

illustrates the importance of reinforcing rods in multilevel, multi-

category businesses.

Supporting the Choices

From the where-to-play and how-to-win choices follows the next

question: what capabilities are required to deliver on that strategy?

To understand and visualize those capabilities, you will find it help-

ful to prepare an activity system based on the strategy. An activity

system captures the most important activities of the organization

in a single visual representation. The large nodes of the map are the

core capabilities, while the smaller nodes are the activities that sup-

port those core capabilities.

The activity system should be feasible, distinctive, and defensi-

ble if it is to enable you to win. If the system is missing any of these

three qualities, you need to return to the where-to-play and how-

to-win choices, refining or even entirely changing those choices

until they result in a distinctive and winning activity system.

By identifying the capabilities required to achieve competi-

tive advantage, the firm can apply resources, attention, and time

to the things that matter most. There may well be work to do to

bolster and grow those capabilities, including training and devel-

opment, investing in additional resources, building supporting

systems, and even reorganizing the company around the capa-

bilities. The process of creating systems that support the specific

choices and capabilities of the organization will be examined in

the next chapter.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 127 11/7/12 1:18 AM

128 Playing to Win

Building CapaBilities dos and don’ts

3 Do discuss, debate, and refine your activity system;

creating an activity system is hard work and may well take

a few tries to capture everything in a meaningful way.

3 Don’t obsess about whether something is a core capa-

bility or a supporting activity; try your best to capture

the most important activities required to deliver on your

where-to-play and how-to-win choices.

3 Don’t settle for a generic activity system; work to create a

distinctive system that reflects the choices you’ve made.

3 Do play to your own, unique strengths. Reverse engineer

the activity systems (and where-to-play and how-to-win

choices) of your best competitors, and overlay them with

yours. Ask how to make yours truly distinctive and value

creating.

3 Do keep the whole company in mind, looking for rein-

forcing rods that are strong and versatile enough to run

through multiple layers of activity systems and keep the

company aligned.

3 Do be honest about the state of your capabilities, asking

what will be required to keep and attain the capabilities

you require.

3 Do explicitly test for feasibility, distinctiveness, and defen-

sibility. Assess the extent to which your activity system is

doable, unique, and defendable in the face of competitive

reaction.

3 Do start building activity systems with the lowest indi-

visible system. For all levels above, systems should be

geared to supporting the capabilities required to win.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 128 11/7/12 1:18 AM

Chapter Six

Manage What Matters

T

he last box in the strategic choice cascade is the most neglected.

Often, senior management teams formulate strategy and then

broadcast key themes to the rest of the company, expecting quick

and definitive action. But even if you set a winning aspiration,

determine where to play and how to win, and define the capabili-

ties required, strategy can still fail—spectacularly—if you fail to

establish management systems that support those choices and capa-

bilities. Without supporting structures, systems, and measures, strat-

egy remains a wish list, a set of goals that may or may not ever be

achieved. To truly win in the marketplace, a company needs a robust

process for creating, reviewing, and communicating about strategy;

it needs structures to support its core capabilities; and it needs spe-

cific measures to ensure that the strategy is working. These manage-

ment systems are needed to complete the strategic choice c ascade

and ensure effective action throughout the organization.

Systems for Making and Reviewing Strategy

Once upon a time, the strategy creation and review process at

P&G was, as global home care president David Taylor describes

it, “corporate theater at its best.”1 Taylor recalls his early reviews

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 129 11/6/12 8:20 PM

130 Playing to Win

as brand manager: “There were twenty-five people around the

room. There was my vice president, the president of the ad agency,

and then what I’d call a whole lot of rail birds—people lined up on