SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Product Positioning and Pricing Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how Olay positioned its products and determined the optimal pricing strategy to appeal to both mass and prestige consumers.
KEYWORDS: product positioning, pricing strategy, consumer perceptions, market segmentation, product packaging
---

enlisted to bolster claims relating to the new and better ingredients.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 11 11/6/12 8:13 PM

12 Playing to Win

Drosos explains, “We developed a breakthrough external-relations

and credentialing program. We determined who would be the key

influencers for consumers. We opened our labs to some of the top

dermatologists to come in to see the work we were doing.” Inde-

pendent tests, which showed Olay products performing as well as

or better than department store brands costing hundreds of dol-

lars more, helped reframe consumer perceptions of performance

and value. All of a sudden, Olay was seen as offering high-quality

products at an affordable price.

Olay also needed to look the part. The packaging had to repre-

sent an aspiration, but also effectively deliver the product. Recalls

Listro, “Most products in mass, and even prestige to some extent,

were sold either in squeeze bottles or in generic jars. What we were

looking for was a technology that could deliver a thick cream ele-

gantly, more like a lotion. We found this design that could actually

pump creams.” The result: a package that would look distinctive

and impressive on the shelf, but also work effectively once the

product was at home.

Pricing was the next element. Traditionally, Olay products

had sold, like most drugstore brands, in the sub-$8 price category

(compared with department store brands, which could be priced

anywhere from $25 to $400 or more). As Drosos explains, in skin

care, there was the pervasive belief “that you get what you pay for.

Women felt the products available in the mass-market channel

were just not as good.” Olay’s advertising and packaging promised

a high-quality, effective product that could compete with depart-

ment store brands. Its pricing needed to hit the perfect note as

well—not so high that mass consumers would be turned off, but

not so low that prestige consumers would doubt its efficacy (no

matter what those independent experts said).

Listro recalls the testing that went on to determine the pric-

ing strategy for Olay Total Effects: “We started to test the new

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 12 11/6/12 8:13 PM

Strategy Is Choice 13

Olay product at premium price points of $12.99 to $18.99 and got

very different results at those price points.” At $12.99, there was a

positive response and a reasonably good rate of purchase intent (a

stated intention to buy the product in the future). But most of the

subjects who signaled a desire to buy at $12.99 were mass shop-

pers. Very few department store shoppers were interested at that

price point. “Basically,” explains Listro, “we were trading people

up from within the channel.” That was good, but not enough. At

$15.99, purchase intent dropped considerably. Then, at $18.99,

purchase intent went back up again—way up. “So, $12.99 was

really good, $15.99 not so good, $18.99 great. We found that at

$18.99, we were starting to get consumers who would shop in both

channels. At $18.99, it was a great value to a prestige shopper who

was used to spending $30 or more.” The $18.99 price point was

just below Clinique and considerably below Estée Lauder. For the

prestige shopper, it was great value, but not too cheap to be credi-

ble. And for the mass shopper, it signified that the product must be

considerably better than anything else on the shelf to justify such a

premium. Listro continues: “But $15.99 was no-man’s-land—way

too expensive for a mass shopper and really not credible enough

for a prestige shopper.” So, with a strong push from the senior

leadership team, Olay took the leap to $18.99 for the launch of

Olay Total Effects. It was set as the manufacturer suggested retail

price, and the team worked hard to convince retailers to stick to

that price.

Momentum started to build. Olay followed up with an even

more expensive premium brand, with a yet-better active ingredi-

ent: Olay Regenerist. Then, it introduced Olay Definity and then

the still-higher premium Olay Pro-X—which sold at a $50 price

point, something inconceivable ten years earlier. The team built

and deepened capabilities around the new strategy. For most of

the 1990s, P&G’s skin-care business had grown at 2 to 4 percent

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 13 11/6/12 8:13 PM

14 Playing to Win

per year. Following the 2000 relaunch, Olay had double-digit

sales and profit growth every year for the next decade. The result:

a $2.5 billion brand with extremely high margins and a consumer

base squarely in the heart of the most attractive part of the market.

What Strategy Is (and Isn’t)

Olay had a strategic problem that many companies struggle

with—a stagnant brand, aging consumers, uncompetitive prod-

ucts, strong competition, and momentum in the wrong direction.

So, why was Olay able to succeed spectacularly where so many

fail? The people at Olay aren’t harder working, more dedicated,

bolder, or luckier than everyone else. But their way of thinking

about the choices they made was different. They had a clear and

defined approach to strategy, a thinking process that enabled indi-

vidual managers to effectively make clearer and harder choices.

That process, and the approach to strategy that underpins it, is

what made the difference.

Strategy can seem mystical and mysterious. It isn’t. It is easily

defined. It is a set of choices about winning. Again, it is an inte-

grated set of choices that uniquely positions the firm in its industry

so as to create sustainable advantage and superior value relative to

the competition. Specifically, strategy is the answer to these five

interrelated questions: