SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Market Definition and Strategy
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of defining one's business based on the customer need rather than the product, to avoid marketing myopia and focus on winning with the most important customers and against the best competitors.
KEYWORDS: market definition, customer focus, competitor analysis, marketing myopia
---

you are winning with and against. It is therefore important to be

thoughtful about the business you’re in, your customers, and your

competitors. We asked P&G’s businesses to focus on winning with

those who matter most and against the very best. We wanted them

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 43 11/6/12 8:17 PM

44 Playing to Win

to focus outward on their most important consumers and very

best competitors, rather than inward on their own products and

innovations.

Most companies, if you ask them what business they’re in, will

tell you what their product line is or will detail their service offer-

ing. Many handheld phone manufacturers, for example, would

say they are in the business of making smartphones. They would

not likely say that they are in the business of connecting people

and enabling communication any place, any time. But that is the

business they are actually in—and a smartphone is just one way to

accomplish that. Or think of a skin-care company. It is far more

likely to say it makes a line of skin-care products than to say it is

in the business of helping women have healthier, younger-looking

skin or helping women feel beautiful. It’s a subtle difference, but

an important one.

The former descriptions are examples of marketing myopia,

something economist Theodore Levitt identified a half-century

ago and a danger that is alive and well today. Companies in the

grips of marketing myopia are blinded by the products they make

and are unable to see the larger purpose or true market dynam-

ics. These companies spend billions of dollars making their new

generation of products just slightly better than their old generation

of products. They use entirely internal measures of progress and

success—patents, technical achievements, and the like—without

stepping back to consider the needs of consumers and the changing

marketplace or asking what business they are really in, which con-

sumer need they answer, and how best to meet that need.

The biggest danger of having a product lens is that it focuses

you on the wrong things—on materials, engineering, and chem-

istry. It takes you away from the consumer. Winning aspirations

should be crafted with the consumer explicitly in mind. The most

powerful aspirations will always have the consumer, rather than

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 44 11/6/12 8:17 PM

What Is Winning 45

the product, at the heart of them. In P&G’s home-care business, for

instance, the aspiration is not to have the most powerful cleanser or

most effective bleach. It is to reinvent cleaning experiences, tak-

ing the hard work out of household chores. It is an aspiration that

leads to market-shifting products like Swiffer, the Mr. Clean Magic

Eraser, and Febreze.

Against the Very Best

Then there is competition. When setting winning aspirations,

you must look at all competitors and not just at those you know

best. Of course, start with the usual suspects. Look at your big-

gest competitors, your historical competitors—for P&G, they

are Unilever, Kimberly-Clark, and Colgate-Palmolive. But then

expand your thinking to focus on the best competitor in your

space, looking far and wide to determine just who that competitor

might be.

This was the approach that we sought to foster at P&G. In dif-

ferent industries and categories, the best competitors were often

found to be local companies, private-label competitors, and smaller

consumer-goods companies. In this way, the home-care team came

to focus on Reckitt-Benckiser (makers of Calgon, Woolite, Lysol,

and Air Wick).

It wasn’t easy to convince the team leaders to take Reckitt-

Benckiser more seriously. But looking at the Reckitt-Benckiser

competitive position versus P&G’s—the competitor’s performance

results versus P&G’s—was illustrative. P&G had a run of six years

of strong revenue and double-digit earnings per share growth, and

Reckitt-Benckiser was outperforming even that. It wasn’t so much

about Reckitt-Benckiser itself as it was about getting the general

managers to question their assumptions and their current judg-

ments. The push was to ask, “Who really is your best competitor?

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 45 11/6/12 8:17 PM

46 Playing to Win

More importantly, what are they doing strategically and opera-

tionally that is better than you? Where and how do they outper-

form you? What could you learn from them and do d ifferently?”

Looking at the best competitor, no matter which company it might

be, provides helpful insights into the multiple ways to win.

Summing Up

The essence of great strategy is making choices—clear, tough

choices, like what businesses to be in and which not to be in, where

to play in the businesses you choose, how you will win where you

play, what capabilities and competencies you will turn into core

strengths, and how your internal systems will turn those choices

and capabilities into consistently excellent performance in the mar-

ketplace. And it all starts with an aspiration to win and a definition

of what winning looks like.

Unless winning is the ultimate aspiration, a firm is unlikely

to invest the right resources in sufficient amounts to create sus-

tainable advantage. But aspirations alone are not enough. Leaf

through a corporate annual report, and you will almost certainly

find an aspirational vision or mission statement. Yet, with most

corporations, it is very difficult to see how the mission state-

ment translates into real strategy and ultimately strategic action.

Too many top managers believe their strategy job is largely

done when they share their aspiration with employees. Unfor-

tunately, nothing happens after that. Without explicit where-

to-play and how-to-win choices connected to the aspiration, a

vision is frustrating and ultimately unfulfilling for employees.