SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Consumer Insights and Market Research
SUMMARY: The text discusses how P&G improved its understanding of consumers and the market, leading to product and marketing changes.
KEYWORDS: consumer insights, market research, ethnographic research, consumer understanding, product development
---

able waist, and even a fun design. It turned out that mothers valued

familiar characters, like the Sesame Street gang, over the nonde-

script cartoon bears P&G had been using. Understanding mothers

better also led the business to change how it “sized” the diapers,

moving from a weight-based designation (e.g., for fifteen- to

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 170 11/6/12 8:21 PM

Think Through Strategy 171

twenty-pound babies) to life stage (like Swaddlers and Cruisers)

that matched with how mom thought about her baby.

To better understand the end consumer, P&G spent much

of the decade of the 2000s retooling the Market Research Depart-

ment, which had historically focused on doing highly quantitative

consumer research (to choose between product, packaging, and

marketing options and to forecast volume for product launches and

initiatives), into Consumer and Market Knowledge (CMK), a group

capable of employing both quantitative and qualitative research

approaches, together with world-leading technologies in decision

modeling, such as agent-based modeling, to create a robust picture

of markets, segments, and consumers. Part of CMK’s advance in

consumer understanding came by way of insights from the world of

design. There, ethnographic study of what consumers actually do—

rather than what they say they do—is an important step to gaining a

deep and holistic understanding of users. In part through the design

initiative headed by P&G’s first ever vice president of design strategy

and innovation, Claudia Kotchka, ethnographic research became an

essential part of the P&G consumer understanding toolbox.

Often during the customer analysis stage, the industry thinking

needs to be revisited. With more customer knowledge, the indus-

try map can change. This certainly happened when oral care took

an updated look at the dentifrice map and saw that the once-giant

cavity-protection segment wasn’t so giant anymore. It needed to be

both resized (the pure “all I think about is cavity protection” segment

was tiny) and recast (to capture a holistic mouth-health segment).

Analysis of Relative Position

With an understanding of the industry and customers, the next step

is to explore your own relative position on two levels: capabilities

and costs.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 171 11/6/12 8:21 PM

172 Playing to Win

Capabilities

In terms of relative capabilities, the question is, how do your capa-

bilities stack up, and how could they stack up, against those of your

competitors in meeting the identified needs of customers (both

channel and end consumer)? In particular, could you configure

your capabilities to enable your company to meet the needs of cus-

tomers in a distinctively valuable way, underpinning a potential dif-

ferentiation strategy? Or, at a minimum, could you configure your

capabilities to enable the company to match competitors in meeting

the needs of customers, underpinning a potential cost-leadership

strategy? In other words, how could your capabilities be configured

to translate to a measurable, sustainable competitive advantage?

As with each of the other elements in the logic flow, an assess-

ment of relative capabilities proved decisive for a number of strate-

gic choices at P&G. For instance, it led the company to exit several

profitable businesses, like pharmaceuticals, which required a num-

ber of capabilities that did not fit well within the P&G structure.

Pharmaceuticals require a long, complex clinical trial and FDA-

approval process; they are largely sold directly to doctors and

pharmacies, with little or no ability to influence the end consumer;

for many of the products, there was no long-term usage opportu-

nity, which made it hard to use P&G brand-building capabilities to

build a sustainable tie with consumers; and there was little cross-

over between P&G core technologies and the technologies needed

to innovate in pharmaceuticals. So, P&G exited the industry, after

much debate and soul-searching.

Costs

The other half of an analysis of relative position relates to cost and

the degree to which the organization can achieve approximate cost

parity with competitors or distinctly lower costs than c ompetitors.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 172 11/6/12 8:21 PM

Think Through Strategy 173

These are the key questions to consider on this front: does the

organization have a scale, branding, or product development

advantage that enables it to deliver a superior value offering at the

same cost as the cost incurred by competitors? Or, does it have a

scale advantage, a learning-curve advantage, a proprietary process,

or a technology that enables it to have a superior cost position?

The answers to these questions start to put parameters around the

myriad how-to-win options.

At P&G, costs have been a particularly crucial concern for

highly price-sensitive industries and categories like fabric care,

family care, and, of course, emerging markets, where incomes are

much lower. As detailed elsewhere in this book, P&G needed to

find new ways to deliver an affordable diaper, razor, or shampoo,

customized to market conditions and matching the ability of con-

sumers to pay. But relative cost was a concern for Olay as well.

By staying in the mass channel, P&G could have a dramatically

lower cost structure than its prestige competitors, which needed to

invest massively in store fixtures and in-store personnel. The cost

savings from keeping Olay in mass retail could be funneled into

innovation and marketing to create competitive advantage. Finally,

in GBS, costs have been a key factor in P&G’s strategy, which has

been to consolidate and outsource where possible, to enable cost

savings to be invested in boosting core capabilities throughout the

organization.

Competitive Analysis

Thinking through the first six boxes in figure 7-1 should produce a

range of potential where-to-play and how-to-win choices. Before

even thinking about deciding between these possibilities, you need