SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Decision-Making
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of clear, simple, and memorable strategic messages to shape choices throughout an organization and create a culture of strategic decision-making.
KEYWORDS: strategic messaging, organizational culture, decision-making, core capabilities, systems and structures
---

beside it or down the aisle? Indicating that winning would require

winning both of the first two moments of truth signaled an impor-

tant shift for the company. This message spoke to a broader set of

capabilities as the core of a winning strategy—not just brand build-

ing and product innovation, but also retail, IT, logistics innova-

tion, go-to-market capabilities, and the use of scale and consumer

understanding to deliver the consumer value equation and drive

consumer purchase.

While the messages themselves were pivotal for embedding the

strategic intent in the organization, so too was the language used

to convey them. It was simple, evocative, and memorable. In any

organization, the choices at the top must be precisely and evoca-

tively stated, so that they are easily understood. Only when the

choices are clear and simple can they be acted upon—only then can

they effectively shape choices throughout the rest of the organiza-

tion. These simple strategy messages can capture the very heart of

the organization’s intent—and to be effective should be repeated

over and over again—to different groups, in different contexts, cre-

ating a mantra for the organization.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 143 11/6/12 8:20 PM

144 Playing to Win

Direct, broadcast messages to the organization are another sys-

tems tool, in addition to communication norms and formal strat-

egy systems like OGSM and the review meetings. Together, these

systems and structures can create a culture of strategic decision-

making. This is one important aspect of the management systems

stage. But beyond systems to support the creation, review, and

communication of strategy, companies also need systems that bol-

ster their core capabilities.

Systems to Support Core Capabilities

Every company needs systems to support the building and mainte-

nance of its key capabilities. The capabilities, which are captured in

the fourth box of the choice cascade, are so important to competi-

tive advantage that a company needs to install systems to ensure

that these capabilities are properly nurtured. The challenge is to

determine what kinds of systems are needed and how best to cre-

ate them. P&G created supporting systems for each of its core

strengths, investing resources and attention to building sustainable

structures:

• On consumer understanding, P&G invested aggressively in

new consumer-research methodologies, striving to lead the

industry with real in-house consumer and market research

capability.

• P&G invested significantly in innovation—in understanding

the innovation process, in exploring disruptive i nnovation

with Clay Christensen and Innosight, and in creating

Connect + Develop (the P&G version of open innovation),

so that more than half of the company’s new brand and prod-

uct innovation had one or more external partners by 2008.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 144 11/6/12 8:20 PM

Manage What Matters 145

• P&G formalized its brand-building framework and set

out to create new brands that would improve the lives of

consumers. P&G introduced more brands than any other

company in its industry over the first decade of the twenty-

first century. Some did not achieve or sustain commercial

success (like Fit, Physique, and Torengos), but the majority

ended up as successful, going concerns, and some created

significant new categories or segments (e.g., Actonel, Align,

Febreze, Prilosec, and Swiffer).

• On the go-to-market front, P&G invested heavily in

strategic partnerships with retailers. It created new ways of

doing business with retail customers, suppliers, and even

competitors (in noncompetitive categories), leading the

charge to change the traditional business model in which all

important activities exist within the walls of the firm.

• P&G invested significantly in scope and scale, a rticulating

the ways in which the advantages they confer are more

about learning curves and re-applicability than about size.

The work on scale, overseen by Clayt Daley and current chief

financial officer Jon Moeller, illustrates P&G’s approach to build-

ing systems around core capabilities. As Moeller explains, there

was one important question on scale: “Are you capturing that

value, both in terms of your activity systems and in terms of your

economics? We historically weren’t. If you go way back, we were

really operating as individual countries. We then made an impor-

tant move to go to global categories.”5 The move happened in

three steps over a decade. First, under John Smale, P&G moved

the majority of the US business to a category management struc-

ture. Under Ed Artzt, P&G created global category coordinators

to manage technologies and brands on a more global basis. Then,

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 145 11/6/12 8:20 PM

146 Playing to Win

under John Pepper and Durk Jager, the company moved to true

GBUs—fully resourced global businesses and profit centers.

“Those moves got us part of the way” to realizing the true benefits

of scale, Moeller says.

“The next step,” he continues, “was to ask, what are the activi-

ties that support the enterprise that really shouldn’t be re-created

for each global business unit? What are the activities where we

can create benefit through commonality and centralization? You

start with very basic things, like purchasing-spend pools. We

didn’t do that historically. Even advertising—each division had

purchased its own advertising, which was crazy.” Consolidating

purchasing globally, whether for advertising or chemicals or pack-

aging, dramatically increased P&G’s scale advantage and cut costs

substantially.

Moeller and Daley also looked carefully at that bane of cor-

porate life: overhead. “We had always benchmarked ourselves to

competition,” Moeller recalls, “to understand whether we were

efficient or inefficient on a relative basis in terms of overhead

spent. It was always a straight math comparison. Clayt said, ‘Wait