SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Brand Strategy
SUMMARY: P&G's decision to launch Luvs, a premium diaper brand, instead of improving Pampers, was a strategic miscalculation that allowed Kimberly-Clark's Huggies to gain market share.
KEYWORDS: brand strategy, product design, market share, Pampers, Luvs
---

the United States and had been expanded to about seventy-five

countries worldwide.

Imagine what Pampers could have become, then, had P&G

chosen a different strategy in 1976. That’s when it introduced a

second diaper brand, Luvs, which featured an hourglass-shaped

pad with elastic gathers. Luvs delivered superior fit, absorbency,

and comfort for about a 30 percent price premium to Pampers.

The decision to launch Luvs with a better product might have

been the most unfortunate strategic miscalculation in P&G his-

tory. So why did P&G introduce a new brand rather than improv-

ing or extending the existing brand? First, company practice at

the time dictated a multibrand strategy—a new brand for every

new product in each category—and the approach seemed to be

working well in laundry detergents and several other categories.

Second, the new design would drive higher operating costs and

required considerable investment in manufacturing capital; pro-

jections suggested that a 20 percent retail price premium would

be needed to hold margins, and the company worried that cur-

rent users would reject a premium-priced line of Pampers. So,

Pampers stayed the same and the advanced design was intro-

duced at the premium price as Luvs.

Unfortunately, the company had miscalculated. While con-

sumers virtually always say they won’t buy (or even try) an

improved product if it is sold at a higher price, those same con-

sumers often change their minds when the product and usage

experience are clearly better and the price premium still repre-

sents value. This turned out to be the case with shaped diapers,

and Pampers suffered. Then, a new threat emerged. In 1978,

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 99 11/6/12 8:19 PM

100 Playing to Win

Kimberly-Clark introduced Huggies, a new brand with a Luvs-like

hourglass shape, a better fit, and an improved tape fastening

system. On the strength of its new product, Huggies surged to

a 30 percent market share. Meanwhile, the introduction of Luvs

did little to bring new consumers to P&G. Instead, it split the

Pampers market share between two brands. P&G still sold more

diapers overall, but Pampers and Luvs individually ranked behind

Huggies in market share.

Future CEO John Pepper, who had assumed control for the

US operation around this time, recalls a series of focus groups

that left him “in a cold sweat.” Every single mom using Hug-

gies, Luvs, or Pampers preferred the shaped diaper. Mothers

had decided. So, finally, did P&G. In 1984, CEO John Smale

approved the decision to move Pampers to the shaped diaper

design as well. P&G launched Ultra Pampers, a design with the

hourglass shape, a new, proprietary absorbent gel, a leak-proof

waist-shield, elastic leg gathers, and a breathable leg cuff. The

company invested $500 million in capital to build and run new

diaper lines and another $250 million in marketing and sales

promotion. Ultra Pampers was a success, in the sense that it

converted most Pampers users to the new-generation product

design and moved Pampers back ahead of Luvs in market share.

But it did not provide a definitive win against Huggies in the

United States; nor did it resolve the tension between Pampers

and Luvs—two virtually identical products that P&G struggled

mightily (but unsuccessfully) to differentiate with advertising for

another decade. Finally, in the 1990s, Luvs was repositioned as

a simpler, more basic value offering.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 100 11/6/12 8:19 PM

How to Win 101

CEO Ed Artzt summarized the lessons of the Pampers story in

a strategy class he taught in the early 1990s:

1. Determine whether a product innovation is really brand

specific or ultimately category generic. Never give your cur-

rent brand user a product-based reason to switch away. By

denying Pampers the hourglass shape and better-fit fea-

tures for a decade, the brand lost five generations of new

parents and new babies.

2. Competition will follow your technology, trying to at least

match it and ideally beat it. Technical superiority alone is

not sustainable.

The Luvs shaped diaper wasn’t the only strategic challenge to

beset Pampers over the years. In the late 1980s, P&G decided

to pass on pull-on diapers. Instead, Huggies developed Pull-Ups

training pants, creating and taking leadership of a large, new

segment. The trainers commanded premium pricing per change

and accounted for a disproportionate share of Kimberly-Clark’s

baby diaper profits, allowing it to compete more effectively in the

taped-diaper segment as well. In Asia, Unicharm similarly rode

pull-on pad technology to leadership in the baby-diaper category

in its home market of Japan and subsequently in several other

Asian countries.

As John Pepper recounts in his book What Really Matters, the

decision not to invest in pull-ons in the late 1980s was made

because P&G was still under intense pressure to get its Ultra

Pampers product upgrade execution right.b The company suc-

cumbed to the first-things-first argument and put every available

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 101 11/6/12 8:19 PM

102 Playing to Win

resource on fixing the current problem. It did not balance returns

from the present with investing in the future. Again, P&G mis-

calculated on consumer preferences, over-weighted concerns

about capital and price premium, and underestimated the com-

petition. In the end, if P&G had just taken the time to understand

consumers, it would have embraced pull-ons and turned the last

two decades into a three-way competition in that segment.

The P&G baby diaper saga is full of strategic challenges occa-

sioned by disruptive product designs and technologies, by very

different readings of the consumer, and by competitors’ strate-