SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Industry Segmentation
SUMMARY: Explores the importance of understanding and mapping industry segments to identify new opportunities and respond to changing market dynamics.
KEYWORDS: industry segmentation, strategic positioning, market dynamics, consumer needs, product portfolio
---

sense in the future? And what is the relative attractiveness of those

segments, now and in the future?

Segmentation

Industry segments are distinctive subsets of the larger industry along

lines such as geography, product or service type, channel, customer

or consumer needs, and so on. Mapping industry segments is rarely

straightforward; it takes work, reflection, and, often, the willingness

to explore beyond the current or obvious segments to segments that

do not currently exist. In many cases, the accepted, traditional indus-

try maps are imperfect. Like the old maps of a flat world that showed

edges you could sail off, industry maps have limitations; only by

exploring the edges of those maps can you see things differently.

In oral care at P&G, for instance, for many years the team thought

about the industry in terms of products (brushes, pastes, and rinses)

and consumer benefits (a huge segment devoted to cavity prevention

and small segments devoted to appearance and to sensitive teeth).

Crest was squarely in the huge and attractive cavity-p revention seg-

ment and winning big in the United States; it was number one in

the industry for more than thirty years using this conceptualization

of the industry structure. But the structure began to change in the

1990s. Cavity prevention became a generic benefit, one that every

toothpaste brand could claim equally; this meant that other bene-

fits would become increasingly important. On the strength of this

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 162 11/6/12 8:21 PM

Think Through Strategy 163

insight, Colgate-Palmolive invented a new segment—based on a

broader, “healthy mouth” consumer need—launching Colgate Total

(which could fight cavities while also targeting tartar, plaque, bad

breath, and gingivitis). Colgate Total came on the market in 1997 and

within a year took over leading market share in toothpaste. It was

a tactic P&G had employed many times over the years, inventing

whole new segments with products like disposable diapers and anti-

dandruff shampoo. Yet Colgate Total caught Crest flat-footed.

Hewing too close to a once highly successful map of the indus-

try, Crest had been passed by an insurgent rival and was founder-

ing. So the oral-care team, led by Mike Kehoe, the US manager

of the oral-care category, undertook a fundamental rethink of the

industry structure. The team started to consider oral care more

broadly, in terms of a full regimen for the mouth and teeth rather

than discrete products for a single job to be done. P&G launched

Crest Whitestrips, SpinBrush Pro, oral rinse, and dental floss,

broadening the Crest name from toothpaste to oral care. P&G

began to embrace consumer needs more holistically to pursue sev-

eral new segments, targeting those who care most about health,

but also those who want whitening and even different product

flavors. The company introduced Crest Pro-Health, Crest Vivid

White, and a set of sensory Crest Expressions offerings, with fla-

vors like cinnamon and vanilla. It took a decade, but Crest was able

to reframe the business from toothpaste to oral care, to understand

consumer preferences and unmet needs, and to broaden the prod-

uct line in light of a richer understanding of industry segments.

Attractiveness

Once you have articulated existing and new segments, you must

understand the structural attractiveness of the different seg-

ments. Other things being equal, a firm would want to play in

segments that have higher profit potential based on their structural

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 163 11/6/12 8:21 PM

164 Playing to Win

FIGURE 7-2

Porter’s five forces

Threat

of new

entrants

Rivalry

Bargaining Bargaining

among

power of power of

existing

suppliers buyers

competitors

Threat of

substitute

products or

services

Source: Reprinted with permission from On Competition, by Michael E. Porter, Harvard Business School

Press, 2008.

characteristics. To understand structural attractiveness, we can

turn to Mike Porter’s seminal five-forces analysis and ask about

the bargaining power of suppliers, the bargaining power of buyers,

the degree of rivalry, the threat of new entrants, and the threat of

substitutes (fi gure 7-2). Porter’s framework is a very useful aid to

understanding the profit potential of markets and segments.

The five forces can be divided into two axes. The vertical axis—

threat from new entrants and threat of substitute products—deter-

mines how much value is generated by the industry (and is therefore

available to be split up among industry players). If it is very difficult

for new players to enter the industry and there are no substitutes to

the industry’s product or services to which buyers can turn, then

the industry will generate high value. This is why the pharmaceuti-

cal industry was so profitable through the 1980s and 1990s; it took

enormous capital and expertise to get into the business and the buyers

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 164 11/6/12 8:21 PM

Think Through Strategy 165

generally had little choice but to pay up for the products, which had

no substitutes. Contrast this to the airline industry. There, whenever

profitability spiked, a slew of new competitors entered. Or, compare

it to steel, where everything from plastic to aluminum to ceramics to

titanium can be a substitute.

The horizontal axis determines which entity will capture the

industry value—suppliers, producers, or buyers. If the suppli-

ers are larger and more powerful than the producers, the suppli-

ers will appropriate more of the value (think Microsoft and Intel

in the PC business). If, on the other hand, the buyers are large

and powerful, they will get a greater portion of the value (think

Walmart versus the many small manufacturers whose products fill

their shelves). The degree to which there is fierce rivalry affects