SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Decision Making
SUMMARY: The document discusses the process of identifying and analyzing the conditions necessary for a strategic possibility, including differentiating between 'nice-to-have' and 'must-have' conditions and assessing the barriers to choosing a particular possibility.
KEYWORDS: strategic planning, decision making, conditions analysis, barriers to choice
---

nice-to-have conditions and the must-have conditions. Typically

during the generation of conditions, a number of the former are

mixed in with the latter. One condition might be, for instance,

that retailers would have to be able to earn higher margins on this

product than on current ones. That would certainly be nice. But

if retailers could derive value in other ways (e.g., through incre-

mental sales), the margins could be the same and the trade would

still be supportive. Nice-to-have conditions need to be culled

so that every condition is actually a binding one. The process

of reverse engineering is complete only when each group mem-

ber understands the logic of the possibility and can say, “Yes, if

all of those conditions were true, this would be a great possibility.

And if any single condition weren’t true, this would not be a good

p ossibility.”

4. Identify Barriers to Choice

The fourth step in the process constitutes a 180-degree flip.

The previous step stayed assiduously away from opinions on

whether the conditions would hold true. This creates an envi-

ronment that enables each team member to explore the logic

behind the possibility and to codify and organize it. Now, and

only now, you can cast a critical eye on the conditions your team

has identified. The task is to assess which of the conditions your

team believes are the least likely to hold true. In other words,

now that you’ve specified what would have to be true for this

possibility to be a great idea, which of those conditions worry

the team the most and seem the least likely to be true? These

conditions constitute the barriers that keep you and the team

from choosing that possibility. Until you know if they are true

or not, you can’t move ahead.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 195 11/6/12 8:22 PM

196 Playing to Win

In this step, it is extremely important to pay close attention

to the group member who is the most skeptical that a condition

will hold true; a skeptic can provide extremely valuable insurance

against making a bad choice. So skeptical group members must

be encouraged to raise, not suppress, concerns at this point in

the process. Even if only one person has concerns about a given

condition, it should remain on the list of key barriers. Other-

wise, the skeptic would be within his or her rights to dismiss the

final analysis. If the key concerns of the team members are drawn

out and taken seriously, all can feel confident in the process and

the o utcomes.

When the P&G beauty team members reviewed the condi-

tions for the Olay masstige possibility, they felt confident that six

would hold: the potential consumer segment was big enough to be

worth targeting, it was likely to be sufficiently structurally attrac-

tive, P&G was capable of building retailer partnerships (if retailers

liked the idea), P&G could achieve the necessary cost structure to

make the product profitable, prestige competitors would not copy

the strategy, and mass competitors could not copy the strategy.

However, three conditions were worrisome (in order from greatest

concern to least): that mass channel consumers would accept a new,

significantly higher starting price point; that mass channel retail-

ers would be game to partner to create this new masstige segment;

and that P&G could bring together prestige-like brand position-

ing, product, and packaging and in-store promotion elements in

the mass retail channel.

5. Design Valid Tests

Once key barrier conditions are identified, they must be tested

in ways the entire group will find compelling. A test may involve

surveying a thousand consumers or speaking to only one supplier.

It may entail crunching thousands of numbers or doing a purely

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 196 11/6/12 8:22 PM

Shorten Your Odds 197

qualitative assessment. In the case of Olay, the pricing condition

was a significant barrier. So, P&G conducted a number of market

tests for different price points ($12.99, $15.99, and $18.99, as dis-

cussed in chapter 1). But not all companies can afford full m arket

tests; nor are pilots practical for every instance. In some cases,

you need to be creative about tests, perhaps looking at analogous

industries in which repositioning created loyal customers or failed

to do so. P&G did this for competitive reaction—without actually

inciting the feared reaction in the market, the team projected pos-

sible outcomes according to past reactions to determine what each

competitor might do.

At this point, the critical issue is whether the decision-making

group regards the test as valid. In this sense, the most skeptical

member of the team is the most valuable. Typically, this person

will have the highest standard of proof for any test, and building

his or her commitment to the choice will be the most challeng-

ing. However, without his or her commitment, any consen-

sus will inevitably be false. Hence, the most effective approach

to overcoming barriers is to put the test design for each barrier

condition in the hands of that condition’s greatest skeptic. If that

person is satisfied that a test is rigorous and that the standard of

proof has been passed, then everybody else—who is by defini-

tion less skeptical—will also be satisfied that the test is legitimate

and stringent.

The danger, of course, is that this approach will result in the

skeptic’s setting an unachievable standard to undermine the pos-

sibility. This could theoretically happen. However, empirically,

it does not happen, for two reasons. First, people demonstrate

extremes of skepticism largely because they don’t feel heard. In a

typical buy-in process, concerns are roadblocks to be pushed out

of the way as quickly and thoroughly as possible. The reverse-