SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: New Product Development
SUMMARY: P&G leveraged its expertise in chemistry, surfactants, and paper technology to create the successful Swiffer product line, a new where-to-play choice in the home cleaning category.
KEYWORDS: Swiffer, New Product Development, Home Cleaning, Leverage Expertise, Consumer-led Blockbuster
---

“We asked, how do we leverage the company scale and size and

technology expertise to fundamentally change cleaning at home?

The key breakthrough for us was to start putting together different

technologies that P&G had, but our competitors didn’t. How do

you marry chemistry, surfactant technology, and paper technol-

ogy? All of that led, within two years, to the launch of Swiffer.”

Swiffer proved to be a whole new where-to-play choice for

the hard-surface cleaners business. It was a consumer-led block-

buster. BusinessWeek listed it as one of “20 Products That Shook

the Stock Market.”6 Ten years later, Swiffer is now in 25 percent

of US households. And as competition enters into the category it

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 66 11/6/12 8:18 PM

Where to Play 67

created, P&G is turning its attention to the next strategic frontier

for Swiffer, asking what’s next.

Digging Deeper

It can be easy to dismiss new and different where-to-play choices as

risky, as a poor fit with the current business, or as misaligned with

core capabilities. And it is just as easy to write off an entire indus-

try on the basis of the predominant where-to-play choices made

by the competitors in that industry. But sometimes, you must dig a

bit deeper—to examine unexpected where-to-play choices from all

sides—to truly understand what is possible and how an industry

can be won with a new place to play. This was the case with fine

fragrances at P&G.

The P&G fine-fragrance business had an inauspicious start. In

fact, P&G’s entry into the category was accidental. In 1991, the

company acquired Max Factor to bolster the international reach of

its color cosmetics business (entered in 1989 with the purchase of

Noxell, the parent company that owned Cover Girl). Cover Girl

was exclusively a North American brand at the time. Max Fac-

tor’s cosmetics business was primarily outside North America and

thus was a nice, logical fit. As it turned out, Max Factor had a tiny

fragrance line—so now, P&G was in the fine-fragrance business

too. In 1994, then chairman and CEO, Ed Artzt, acted to deepen

P&G’s participation in the fine-fragrance business with the pur-

chase of Giorgio of Beverly Hills for $150 million. At the time,

most thought it was a strange acquisition—staid, Midwestern P&G

buying a chic Rodeo Drive perfumery.

In many ways, it was an odd mix. The fragrance business fea-

tured a combination of company-owned brands, like Giorgio, and

external brands for which P&G licensed only the perfume rights,

like Hugo Boss. For one of the world’s acknowledged branding

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 67 11/6/12 8:18 PM

68 Playing to Win

leaders, licensing presented a strange situation—having to depend

entirely on another company to create an overall brand image, to

which P&G would simply add a line of consistent fine-fragrance

products. Very little of P&G’s brand-building expertise appeared

to come into play. Plus, the reputations of these fashion brands

were highly volatile. They waxed and waned, and there seemed to

be little that the brands could do (and even less that P&G could

do) about it. Very, very few perfume brands endured and grew for

decades, as Tide and Crest had done. Fragrances were also sold

substantially through a channel in which P&G was otherwise not

present—department stores and perfumeries. And finally, P&G’s

R&D labs couldn’t easily develop streams of innovation of the sort

that kept Bounty and Pantene ahead of their competitors. Fine fra-

grances felt more like the hope-in-a-bottle business: lots of hype

and little real technology. The strategic choices and capabilities

for fine fragrances had little in common with the choices for most

other P&G businesses. No surprise, then, that the fragrance busi-

ness struggled along during the 1990s, underperforming relative to

the industry and to P&G’s company standards.

On the surface at least, fine fragrances looked like an obvious

choice for divestiture. The business appeared to have a tenuous fit

with the broader P&G. What’s more, it had these complicating

features—fashion-house dependence and tricky distribution. P&G

had no road map for running businesses like this internally, and

there wasn’t a good analog on the outside to benchmark against.

P&G hadn’t been in the portfolio for very long, especially in its

post-Giorgio format, so there wasn’t much of a track record either.

The company came very close to divesting the business but instead

reframed the thinking.

Fine fragrances, however, were important to hang on to,

for two strategic reasons. First, a fine-fragrance presence was

an important component of a credible and competitive beauty

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 68 11/6/12 8:18 PM

Where to Play 69

business. P&G wanted to be a beauty leader, on the strength of

hair care (Pantene, Head & Shoulders) and skin care (Olay). But

to be truly credible with the industry and consumers as a beauty

player, the company needed a position in cosmetics and fragrances

as well. The knowledge transfer between the different catego-

ries is significant, meaning that what you learn in cosmetics and

fragrances—through both product R&D and consumer research—

has a lot of spillover into hair care and skin care, and vice versa. In

other words, just being in the fragrance business makes you better

in beauty categories overall.

In addition, fragrance is a very important part of the hair-care

experience—scent alone can significantly influence consumer

product preferences. And it isn’t just true in hair care, which leads

to the second strategic reason to play in fine fragrances: in many

household and other personal-care businesses, there were signifi-

cant consumer segments that cared deeply about the sensory expe-