SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Mergers and Acquisitions
SUMMARY: The text discusses Procter & Gamble's acquisition of Gillette, highlighting the importance of strategic fit, capabilities, and activity systems in driving value from the deal.
KEYWORDS: M&A, strategic fit, capabilities, activity systems, competitive advantage
---

Gillette could work productively together and that the business

and external work systems could be fully integrated in a relatively

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 111 11/7/12 1:18 AM

112 Playing to Win

short period. We believed the acquisition could deliver value from

cost synergies and future growth. Typically, in an acquisition, all

the focus is on integration, on synergies, and on getting the right

leadership in place. But synergy is not strategy.

Strategy mattered most. We believed that P&G and Gillette

were a good strategic fit and that Gillette’s capabilities married

well with P&G’s. We believed that P&G could leverage that com-

mon ground to build new capabilities where it needed them. On

the strength of all that, the huge, bet-the-company-size acquisition

of Gillette made sense. It took some time to convince all the stake-

holders. But it was clear that this could be a once-in-a-century

strategic opportunity, if P&G brought the right capabilities to bear

on it.

Understanding Capabilities and Activity Systems

An organization’s core capabilities are those activities that, when

performed at the highest level, enable the organization to bring

its where-to-play and how-to-win choices to life. They are best

understood as operating as a system of reinforcing activities—

a concept first articulated by Harvard Business School’s Michael

Porter. Porter noted that powerful and sustainable competitive

advantage is unlikely to arise from any one capability (e.g., having

the best sales force in the industry or the best technology in the

industry), but rather from a set of capabilities that both fit with

one another (i.e., that don’t conflict with one another) and actually

reinforce one another (i.e., that make each other stronger than they

would be alone).

For Porter, a company’s “strategic position is contained in a

set of tailored activities designed to deliver it.”9 He calls the visual

depiction of this set of activities an activity system. Since “competi-

tive strategy is about being different . . . [and] means deliberately

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 112 11/7/12 1:18 AM

Play to Your Strengths 113

choosing a different set of activities to deliver unique value,” an

activity system must also be distinctive from the activity systems

of competitors.10 In his landmark 1996 article “What Is Strategy?,”

Porter illustrated his theory with examples from Southwest Air-

lines, Progressive Insurance, and The Vanguard Group, articulat-

ing the way in which each organization made distinctive choices

and tailored an activity system to deliver on those choices.

The activity system is a visual representation of the firm’s com-

petitive advantage, capturing on a single page the core capabilities

of the firm.11 Articulating a firm’s core capabilities is a vital step in

the strategy process. Identifying the capabilities required to deliver

on the where-to-play and how-to-win choices crystallizes the area

of focus and investment for the company. It enables a firm to con-

tinue to invest in its current capabilities, to build up others, and to

reduce the investment in capabilities that are not essential to the

strategy.

In 2000, P&G’s where-to-play choices were coming together

(i.e., grow from the core; extend into home, beauty, health, and

personal care; and expand into emerging markets), and its how-to-

win choices were also becoming clear (i.e., excellence in consumer-

focused brand building; innovative product design; and leveraging

global scale and retailer partnerships). These choices needed to be

translated into the set of capabilities required to deliver.

The thinking process was kicked off at an off-site meeting for

business and functional leaders. Leaders were placed into teams

by business and by function and then asked to capture what they

thought were the key strengths of the company. After a long day

of discussion and debate, the teams had generated more than a

hundred potential competitive strengths on charts around the

room. As might have been predicted, every function had identified

its unique set of disciplinary capabilities and competencies. Every

business had identified capabilities that were unique to its industry.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 113 11/7/12 1:18 AM

114 Playing to Win

The question needed to be reframed. The next morning, every-

one would be given three votes on what constituted the core capa-

bilities of the company, along the following criteria: first, for a given

capability, the group had to be reasonably sure P&G already had

real, measurable competitive advantage in that area and could widen

its margin of advantage in the future. Second, the capability had to be

broadly relevant and important to the majority of P&G’s businesses.

That is, it had to be a company-level rather than business-level capa-

bility that distinguished P&G from its competitors. Third, the capa-

bility had to be decisive, a real competitive advantage that was the

difference between winning and losing. Ultimately, the question

was, what capabilities must P&G, as a global company, have to win

across the industries in which it would compete?

With capabilities, again, winning is an essential criterion. Com-

panies can be good at a lot of things. But there are a smaller number

of activities that together create distinctiveness, underpinning spe-

cific where-to-play and how-to-win choices. P&G certainly needs

to be good at manufacturing, but not distinctively good at it to

win. On the other hand, P&G does need to be distinctively good at

understanding consumers, at innovation, and at branding its prod-

ucts. When articulating core capabilities, you need to distinguish

between generic strengths and critical, mutually reinforcing activi-

ties. A company needs to invest disproportionately in building the

core capabilities that together produce competitive advantage.

When thinking about capabilities, you may be tempted to sim-