SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Performance Measurement and Improvement
SUMMARY: The text discusses how P&G developed new performance measures focused on consumer preferences and holistic product experience, moving beyond just technical product performance.
KEYWORDS: performance measurement, consumer insights, product improvement, strategic thinking, Procter & Gamble
---

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 151 11/6/12 8:20 PM

152 Playing to Win

and business-unit levels (and using that same measure across busi-

nesses and over time) enabled more balanced, consistent, and

r eliable p erformance.

Measures can and should be developed throughout the orga-

nization. We asked P&G leaders to think about the kinds of mea-

sures that would truly advance strategic thinking in their own

businesses. Some measures were highly industry specific and were

put in place in only a few P&G businesses. But other measures cre-

ated or implemented in a given business spread across the organi-

zation. Some of the best thinking about cross-enterprise measures

concerned understanding consumer preferences, like Henretta’s

work in baby care.

Like many P&G businesses, the diaper business had become

a bit myopic—it was focused on technical product performance.

Recalls Henretta: “Basically, we used to test how much moisture

a diaper could absorb. That was the test of product superior-

ity, and that, over time, got equated with brand superiority. The

product that had the best absorbency was deemed to be the best

diaper. All of our metrics over time were geared to that absor-

bency metric. That’s how we defined success or nonsuccess. If

we had a better diaper, a more absorbent, technically superior

diaper, we then by definition would have the better product for

consumers.”6

But did consumers think about diapers in the same way? Hen-

retta had her doubts: “As diapers got more and more sophisticated,

moms started to expect more. It wasn’t just good enough to have

the technical performance” on one primary product dimension. In

fact, most of the diapers on the market had quite similar levels of

performance on the absorbency front. And though tests typically

showed its products had superior absorbency, Pampers wasn’t

winning in the marketplace.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 152 11/6/12 8:20 PM

Manage What Matters 153

Henretta wanted to explore the other measures that might

drive consumer preference, purchase, and, over time, loyalty. “We

created a metric that would look holistically at all of the compo-

nents that made up product or brand preference. Our weighted

purchase intent (WPI) measure looked at a number of product

dimensions that included things like the aesthetic appeal, the

design, the feel of the diaper, the look of the diaper in addition

to technical performance; it also considered the brand proposi-

tion you were giving to the consumer and the price of the prod-

uct.” The goal of WPI was to capture the complete picture, the

full proposition as presented to consumers. It was to understand

all the components of the consumer value equation: the drivers of

consumer preference and the overall perceptions of product and

brand value.

The WPI metric, Henretta says, “started to show where we had

deficiencies. Even where we had technical superior performance,

we found that we had a WPI disadvantage; when you consider all

of the ways a mom evaluates a baby-care brand, we just weren’t

doing enough on some of the other aspects, like the feel of the

diaper, the look of the diaper, the design of the diaper.” The data

gave Henretta the ammunition she needed to spur a change in the

business: “It was an important part of making the shift, because we

could show the organization, and even my leadership team, that

we weren’t doing as well on our diapers as we thought we were.

They had this view that we had far and away the most superior

diaper. They weren’t taking into consideration all these other pur-

chase factors that the consumer used when she made her decision

on what brand she was going to buy; she was coming up with a

very different value equation than our internal technical testing

showed.” WPI suggested that factors like the way the baby looked

in the diaper and the ease of putting the infant in the diaper were

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 153 11/6/12 8:20 PM

154 Playing to Win

far more important than technologists believed. “We proved,

market by market, that when we used this WPI metric, we could

explain the dynamics in the marketplace,” Henretta says. “The

WPI winner was the fastest-growing brand in the marketplace and

often the market leader.”

The data from the WPI analysis informed the transformation

of the baby-care business, and the metric soon spread throughout

P&G. WPI was just one of many measures that better helped P&G

win. The company took existing best-in-class measures, adopted

them, and adapted them to make them better, like using an adapted

net promoter score to track consumer sentiment and loyalty.7 The

company also developed unique and proprietary test methodolo-

gies. Together, these measures were very important contributors to

P&G’s strategic success.

Shifting Gears

Every company needs systems to formulate, refine, and clearly

communicate the essentials of the strategy choice cascade through-

out the company. It needs systems to support and invest in its core

capabilities. It needs systems to measure attainment of its goals.

These management systems are a key piece of the strategy puzzle.

While where to play and how to win represent the heart of strat-

egy, those choices won’t provide sustainable advantage without

associated core capabilities that drive competitive advantage and

the management systems that support the choices.

Building management systems takes time, money, and

focus. There is no one-size-fits-all set of systems; they need to

be geared to individual context and capabilities. Until a set of

systems and measures is in place, the strategic choice cascade is