SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Capability Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses how a company builds distinctive capabilities and supporting systems to win in a specific market category.
KEYWORDS: capability development, strategic choices, market leadership, organizational performance, measurement of outcomes
---

egory that the company is willing to build distinctive capabilities

and systems to support it. Because the brand generates extremely

high gross margins, P&G can afford to invest in those unique capa-

bilities. SK-II offers a range of skin-care products at the very top of

the market and is sold through specialized counters in department

stores. To win, P&G needs capabilities in consumer understand-

ing, product and packaging innovation, and brand building—as

do all of its brands. But with SK-II, P&G also needs capabilities

in counter design, department store retail relationships, consumer

skin consultation, and in-store service. So, the company built sup-

porting systems, including partnerships with the best retail design-

ers in the world, recruiting systems for beauty counselors, and

training programs for in-store staff. These are all unique to SK-II,

but essential to winning in that business. These systems sup-

port brand-specific capabilities, and they must be built alongside

enterprise-wide systems.

Measurement of Desired Outcomes

It’s an old saying that what gets measured gets done. There’s more

than a little truth to this. If aspirations are to be achieved, capabili-

ties developed, and management systems created, progress needs

to be measured. Measurement provides focus and feedback. Focus

comes from an awareness that outcomes will be examined, and suc-

cess or failure noted, creating a personal incentive to perform well.

Feedback comes from the fact that measurement allows the com-

parison of expected outcomes with actual outcomes and enables

you to adjust strategic choices accordingly.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 149 11/6/12 8:20 PM

150 Playing to Win

For measures to be effective, it is crucial to indicate in advance

what the expected outcomes are. Be explicit: “The following

aspiration, where to play, how to win, capabilities, and m anagement

systems should produce the following specific outcomes.”

Expected outcomes should be noted in writing, in advance. Speci-

ficity is crucial. Rather than stating “increase in market share” or

“market leadership,” quantify a thoughtful range within which you

would declare success and below which you would not. Without

such defined measures, you can fall prey to the human tendency

to rationalize any outcome as more or less what you expected.

Within an organization, every business unit or function should

have specific measures that relate to the organizational context and

that unit’s own choices. These measures should span financial, con-

sumer, and internal dimensions, to prevent the team from focusing

exclusively on a single parameter of success.

For measures at the P&G corporate level, we had identified

clear financial goals, so measurement of revenue and profitabil-

ity was a priority. We wanted simple, straightforward, and strong

financial performance to be rewarded. However, we believed that

the methodology for value creation and comparing P&G to com-

petitors needed to change. P&G’s compensation system had tied

rewards for senior executives to market total shareholder return

(TSR), the increase in share price plus dividends (as if reinvested in

stock) over a three-year period. Under that system, the TSR was

benchmarked against a peer group; if P&G was in the upper third

of the group, the executives received bonuses.

We weren’t satisfied with the system. We didn’t like the direct

tie to stock price as the sole measure of financial performance; it

was too blunt an instrument to capture the real performance of

the company. The stock price is a manifestation of investor expec-

tations—something substantially out of P&G’s control. After

a strong year, expectations typically amp up to unrealistic levels

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 150 11/6/12 8:20 PM

Manage What Matters 151

that even a similar great performance can’t beat. So, the stock will

stumble, even as the company outperforms the previous year. For

this reason, a great year against TSR is usually followed by a weak

one, even if the company performance improves in real terms. So

using this measure and basing compensation on it didn’t make a lot

of sense.

Instead, P&G switched from market TSR to operating TSR.

Operating TSR is an amalgamated measure of three real operating

performance measures—sales growth, profit margin improvement,

and increase in capital efficiency. This measure more accurately

captures P&G’s true performance across the most critical opera-

tional metrics and, moreover, measures things that business-unit

presidents and general managers can actually influence, unlike the

market-based TSR number. The operating TSR measure integrates

revenue growth, margin growth, and cash productivity and it does

so regardless of the type of assets being managed—whether you

have hard assets like tissue/towel paper converting machines or

inventory like cosmetics and fragrance products. In other words,

the measure could be equitably and usefully applied to all of P&G’s

diverse businesses. And it isn’t utterly unconnected to stock per-

formance—there is a high correlation over the medium and long

term between operating TSR and market TSR. But unlike the stock

price, the operating TSR measures are ones over which P&G man-

agers have real influence in the short and medium term.

The use of operating TSR also enabled P&G to compare itself

to competitors in a meaningful way; P&G could actually calculate

an operating TSR for competitive firms using public data. When

P&G didn’t fare as well, it became an impetus to improve perfor-

mance on one or more of the operating TSR drivers. Operating

TSR also reduced some of the gamesmanship inherent in other

systems that allow businesses to choose their own performance

metrics. Having a single measure of value creation at the company

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 151 11/6/12 8:20 PM

152 Playing to Win

and business-unit levels (and using that same measure across busi-