SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Automotive Industry Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the strategy of GM's Saturn brand, which aimed to play in the small car segment but failed to invest enough to win against competitors like Toyota, Honda, and Nissan.
KEYWORDS: automotive strategy, GM, Saturn, small car segment, Toyota, Honda, Nissan
---

to sustain a full lineup of cars or a national dealer network. As one

former GM director said of Saturn, “it may well be the biggest

fiasco in automotive history since Ford brought out the Edsel.”4

The folks running Saturn aspired to participate in the US small-

car segment with younger buyers. By contrast, Toyota, Honda,

and Nissan all aspired to win in that segment. Guess what hap-

pened? Toyota, Honda, and Nissan all aimed for the top, making

the hard strategic choices and substantial investments required to

win. GM, through Saturn, aimed to play and invested to that much

lower standard. Initially Saturn did OK as a brand. But it needed

substantial resources to keep up against Toyota, Honda, and Nis-

san, all of which were investing at breakneck speed. GM couldn’t

and wouldn’t keep up. Saturn died, not because it made bad cars,

but because its aspirations were simply too modest to keep it alive.

The aspirations did not spur winning where-to-play and how-to-

win choices, capabilities, and management systems.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 38 11/6/12 8:17 PM

What Is Winning 39

To be fair, GM had myriad challenges that made playing to win

a daunting prospect—troubling union relations, oppressive legacy

health-care and pension costs, and difficult dealer regulations.

However, playing to play, rather than seeking to play to win, per-

petuated the overall corporate problems rather than overcoming

them. Contrast the approach at GM to the approach at P&G, where

the company plays to win whenever it chooses to play. And the

approach holds even in the unlikeliest of places. Playing to win is

reasonably straightforward to contemplate in a consumer market.

But what does it look like for an internal, shared-services function?

Even there, you can play to win, as Filippo Passerini, president of

P&G’s global business services (GBS) unit demonstrates.

Playing to Win

At the end of the dot-com bubble, the IT world was in turmoil.

The NASDAQ had melted down, taking both the credibility of

the high-tech industry and the broader market indexes with it,

throwing the economy into a recession. Yet, despite the crash, it

was clear that spending on IT infrastructure and services would

continue to increase. IT services were far from a core competency

for most companies (including P&G), and the costs and complexi-

ties of providing IT services in-house were daunting. Fortunately,

riding to the rescue was a new breed of service provider: the busi-

ness process outsourcer (BPO). These companies (including IBM,

EDS, Accenture, TCS, and Infosys) would provide a range of IT

services from the outside, managing complexity for a fee. As the

postcrash dust cleared, rapidly digitizing companies were faced

with decisions on how much to use BPOs, which BPO partner to

select, and how best to do so. It wasn’t easy; the implications of a

poor choice could be millions of dollars in extra costs and untold

headaches down the line.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 39 11/6/12 8:17 PM

40 Playing to Win

At P&G, many of the operations that might be outsourced had

been gathered together in a 1999 reorganization. This GBS func-

tion was responsible for business services including IT, facilities

management, and employee services. In 2000, three options for the

future of GBS were being actively explored: stay the course and

continue to run GBS internally; spin off GBS (partly or wholly)

to allow it to become a major player in the BPO business; or out-

source most of GBS to one of the biggest existing BPO companies.

It was not an easy decision. The stock markets and economy

were cratering, as were the stock prices of the publicly traded

BPOs. If completed, the deal would have been highly complex and

at an unprecedented size for the global BPO industry. P&G had

never outsourced or sold anything affecting this many employees,

so the impact on morale and culture was highly uncertain. As the

options were made known to employees, some employees feared

the company would sell loyal P&G employees into “slavery.”

The easiest thing would have been to declare that the issue

was too divisive and to stick with the status quo. After all, GBS

was working just fine. It was playing well in its space and deliv-

ering high-quality services to a wide range of internal customers.

Alternatively, P&G could have gone with the next most conven-

tional option: a single large deal with a premier BPO firm like

IBM Global Services or EDS. Finally, the company could have

acknowledged that a large, in-house global services organization

was an inefficient use of P&G resources and spun out GBS into its

own BPO. Any of these choices might have seemed sensible given

the circumstances. But none effectively answered the question of

how P&G could win with its global services.

The senior team wasn’t convinced that all of the options were

on the table. So, Filippo Passerini, who had a strong IT back-

ground and marketing management experience, was asked to think

through the existing options and, if appropriate, suggest additional

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 40 11/6/12 8:17 PM

What Is Winning 41

possibilities. Passerini struggled with the conventional choice. In

theory, outsourcing to a single large BPO would create consider-

able economies of scale. It was clear that the deal would be good

for the BPO partner, which would secure the biggest outsourc-

ing deal in the industry’s history. But there was no obvious reason

why the deal would help P&G to win. P&G wanted more than

cost-effectiveness and a commitment to a predefined service level