SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of making explicit strategic choices to create sustainable competitive advantage and superior value.
KEYWORDS: strategic choices, competitive advantage, value creation, strategy definition, strategic planning
---

unexplainable in advance but obvious in retrospect.

It isn’t. Really, strategy is about making specific choices to win

in the marketplace. According to Mike Porter, author of Competi-

tive Strategy, perhaps the most widely respected book on strategy

ever written, a firm creates a sustainable competitive advantage

over its rivals by “deliberately choosing a different set of activi-

ties to deliver unique value.”1 Strategy therefore requires making

explicit choices—to do some things and not others—and building

a business around those choices.2 In short, strategy is choice. More

specifically, strategy is an integrated set of choices that uniquely

positions the firm in its industry so as to create sustainable advan-

tage and superior value relative to the competition.

Making choices is hard work, and it doesn’t always fit with all

the other work to be done. In our view, far too few companies have

a clear, choiceful, and compelling winning strategy in place. Too

often, CEOs in particular will allow what is urgent to crowd out

what is really important. When an organizational bias for action

drives doing, often thinking falls by the wayside. Instead of work-

ing to develop a winning strategy, many leaders tend to approach

strategy in one of the following ineffective ways:

1. They define strategy as a vision. Mission and vision state-

ments are elements of strategy, but they aren’t enough.

They offer no guide to productive action and no explicit

road map to the desired future. They don’t include choices

about what businesses to be in and not to be in. There’s no

focus on sustainable competitive advantage or the building

blocks of value creation.

2. They define strategy as a plan. Plans and tactics are

also elements of strategy, but they aren’t enough either.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Introduction.indd 3 11/6/12 8:12 PM

4 Playing to Win

A d etailed plan that specifies what the firm will do (and

when) does not imply that the things it will do add up to

sustainable competitive advantage.

3. They deny that long-term (or even medium-term) strategy

is possible. The world is changing so quickly, some leaders

argue, that it’s impossible to think about strategy in advance

and that, instead, a firm should respond to new threats

and opportunities as they emerge. Emergent strategy has

become the battle cry of many technology firms and start-

ups, which do indeed face a rapidly changing marketplace.

Unfortunately, such an approach places a company in

a reactive mode, making it easy prey for more-strategic

rivals. Not only is strategy possible in times of tumultuous

change, but it can be a competitive advantage and a source

of significant value creation. Is Apple disinclined to think

about strategy? Is Google? Is Microsoft?

4. They define strategy as the optimization of the status

quo. Many leaders try to optimize what they are already

doing in their current business. This can create efficiency

and drive some value. But it isn’t strategy. The optimiza-

tion of current practices does not address the very real

possibility that the firm could be exhausting its assets and

resources by optimizing the wrong activities, while more-

strategic competitors pass it by. Think of legacy airlines

optimizing their spoke-and-hub models while Southwest

Airlines created a transformative new point-to-point busi-

ness model. Optimization has a place in business, but it

isn’t strategy.

5. They define strategy as following best practices. Every

industry has tools and practices that become widespread

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Introduction.indd 4 11/6/12 8:12 PM

How Strategy Really Works 5

and generic. Some organizations define strategy as bench-

marking against competition and then doing the same set

of activities but more effectively. Sameness isn’t strategy.

It is a recipe for mediocrity.

These ineffective approaches are driven by a misconception of

what strategy really is and a reluctance to make truly hard choices.

It is natural to want to keep options open as long as possible, rather

than closing off possibilities by making explicit choices. But it is

only through making and acting on choices that you can win. Yes,

clear, tough choices force your hand and confine you to a path. But

they also free you to focus on what matters.

What matters is winning. Great organizations—whether com-

panies, not-for-profits, political organizations, agencies, what have

you—choose to win rather than simply play. What is the difference

between the Mayo Clinic and the average research hospital in your

neighborhood? Your local hospital is, most likely, focused on pro-

viding a service and on doing good. The Mayo Clinic, though, sets

out to transform the world of medicine, to be at the vanguard of

medical research, and to win. And it does.

The Playbook: Five Choices, One Framework,

One Process

Winning should be at the heart of any strategy. In our terms, a

strategy is a coordinated and integrated set of five choices: a winning

aspiration, where to play, how to win, core capabilities, and man-

agement systems. Chapter 1 introduces these five essential choices

as strategic questions. Each of chapters 2 through 6 dwells at some

length on one of the questions, explaining the nature of the choice

to be made, providing a number of examples of that choice, and

offering some advice for making the choice in your own context.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Introduction.indd 5 11/6/12 8:12 PM

6 Playing to Win

The five choices make up the strategic choice cascade, the founda-

tion of our strategy work and the core of this book.

To really think through strategy, though, the cascade isn’t

quite enough. In chapter 7, we will provide another tool—the