SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Decision-Making
SUMMARY: The text discusses a strategic choice cascade and the need to define a winning aspiration, where to play, and how to win, while leveraging various analytical tools.
KEYWORDS: strategic choice cascade, winning aspiration, where to play, how to win, analytical tools
---

choice cascade (what is your winning aspiration, where will you

play, how will you win, what capabilities will you use, and what man-

agement systems will you employ?) and argued that all five must be

answered, coordinated, and integrated to craft a powerful strategy

and lasting competitive advantage. But how and where do you start?

And how do you generate and choose between possibilities at each

stage? For any company, there are many possible strategic choices

that could be selected, an almost infinite amount of data that could be

crunched, and a wide array of strategic tools that might be brought to

bear on the problem. It can be overwhelming, even paralyzing. The

bad news is that there is no simple algorithm for choice. The good

news is that there is a framework that can give you a place to start.

As you begin articulating your strategic choice cascade, the

obvious place to start is at the top. We’ve argued that it is essen-

tial to define a winning aspiration up front, and it does make sense

to begin thinking about strategy by defining the purpose of your

enterprise; without having an initial definition of winning, it is dif-

ficult to assess the value of any subsequent choice. You need a win-

ning aspiration against which you can weigh different choices. But

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 159 11/6/12 8:21 PM

160 Playing to Win

remember that strategy is an iterative process, and you’ll need to

return to refine your winning aspiration in the context of the sub-

sequent choices. So, rather than dwell on crafting the perfect defi-

nition of winning, sketch a prototype, with the understanding that

you will return to it later with the rest of the cascade in mind. Then

consider the real work of strategy as beginning with where to play

and how to win—the very heart of strategy. These are the choices

that actually define what you will do, and where you will do it, so

as to generate competitive advantage.

To define where to play and how to win, you’ll need to under-

stand and reflect on your context. To do so, you have scores of tools

at your disposal—from simple analyses like SWOT (strengths,

weaknesses, opportunities, and threats) to purpose-built tools

like the Boston Consulting Group growth matrix and General

Electric–McKinsey nine-box matrix to detailed frameworks based

on particular strategic theories (the VRIN model, which assesses

the degree to which the organization possesses capabilities that

are valuable, rare, inimitable, and non-substitutable, and which

emerged from the resource-based view of the firm). Each of these

tools, frameworks, and philosophies has its most helpful uses, but

none considers the full strategic landscape. Alone, none can help

you decide where to play and how to win. Together, they produce

a potentially unfocused and overwhelming mass of data and analy-

sis. Instead of picking and choosing among these tools, companies

need to develop a more directed approach that can be applied to

make where-to-play and how-to-win choices across contexts.

Ultimately, there are four dimensions you need to think about

to choose where to play and how to win:

1. The industry. What is the structure of your industry and

the attractiveness of its segments?

2. Customers. What do your channel and end customers value?

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 160 11/6/12 8:21 PM

Think Through Strategy 161

3. Relative position. How does your company fare, and how

could it fare, relative to the competition?

4. Competition. What will your competition do in reaction

to your chosen course of action?

These four dimensions can be understood through a frame-

work we call the strategy logic flow, which poses seven questions

across the four dimensions (figure 7-1). The strategy logic flow

spurs a thoughtful analysis of your company’s current reality, con-

text, challenges, and opportunities and leads to the development of

multiple possible where-to-play and how-to-win choices.

The flow runs from left to right as a framing mechanism and

a rough order of operations—though as with pretty much every-

thing to do with strategy, a lot of iterative back-and-forth is

required. The flow of the logic runs from industry to customers to

relative position to competitive reaction. It is in considering all of

these together that strategic choices emerge, but different dimen-

sions will be more or less important in different contexts.

FIGURE 7-1

The strategy logic flow

Customer Analysis

Industry value of relative Competitor Strategic

analysis analysis position analysis choice

Segmentation Channel Capabilities

What are the How do our Where-to-play

What attributes

strategically capabilities stack choice A

constitute

distinct up against with how-to-

channel value?

segments? competitors’? Prediction win choice Y

How will

competitors

Or...

react to our

Structure End consumer Costs actions?

How do our Where-to-play

How structurally What attributes

costs stack up choice B

attractive are the constitute end-

against with how-to-

segments? customer value?

competitors’? win choice Z

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 161 11/6/12 8:21 PM

162 Playing to Win

Industry Analysis

The first component of the strategy logic flow is industry analy-

sis. To determine where to play, you must assess the industry land-

scape. You must ask, what might be the distinct segments of the

industry in question (geographically, by consumer preference, by

distribution channel, etc.)? Which segmentation scheme makes

the most sense for the given industry today, and what might make

sense in the future? And what is the relative attractiveness of those

segments, now and in the future?

Segmentation

Industry segments are distinctive subsets of the larger industry along

lines such as geography, product or service type, channel, customer