SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of strategy as an ongoing process for companies to adapt and win in a competitive, fast-changing market.
KEYWORDS: strategic planning, competitive advantage, business adaptation, risk management, strategic choices
---

and, ultimately, to win year after year. Ideally, companies should

see strategy as a process rather than a result—adapting existing

choices before business and financial results (which are always

lagging indicators) start to turn down.

All strategy entails risk. But operating in a slow-growing, fast-

changing, intensely competitive world without a strategy to guide

you is far riskier. Leaders lead, and a good place to start leading is

in strategy development for your business. Use the strategic choice

cascade, the strategy logic flow, and reverse engineering of strate-

gic choices to craft a winning strategy and sustainable competitive

advantage for your organization. Play to win.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Conclusion.indd 216 11/6/12 8:23 PM

Acknowledgments

W

e are deeply indebted to many fine friends, colleagues, and

mentors for their work, which was instrumental to this

book.

First and foremost is Jennifer Riel, who served us in numerous

important capacities. She was our editor in chief, but in addition to

that she managed our research and conducted the P&G executive

interviews, many on her own. She also cowrote and rewrote many

sections of the book. We couldn’t have produced this book with-

out her brilliance, diligence, and colleagueship.

This book wouldn’t have been nearly as rich without the

perspectives of numerous P&G executives, including former

Chairman and CEO John Pepper and current Chairman and CEO

Bob McDonald. Other P&G executives, past and present, who con-

tributed in this way are Chip Bergh, Gil Cloyd, Clayt Daley, Gina

Drosos, Melanie Healey, Deb Henretta, Michael Kuremsky, Joan

Lewis, Joe Listro, Jorge Mesquita, Jon Moeller, Filippo Passerini,

Charlie Pierce, David Taylor, Jeff Weedman, and Craig Wynett.

Also, George Roeth and Larry Peiros at Clorox were generous in

providing interviews related to the Clorox/P&G joint venture on

Glad products. Thank you to them and to the thousands of P&G

employees whose work inspired the stories in this book.

Fiona Houslip, Claudia Kotchka, Joe Rotman, Dave Samuel,

and Tomer Strolight read the penultimate draft of the book, and

all provided extremely valuable comments that changed the final

manuscript for the better.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Acknowledgements.indd 217 11/6/12 8:15 PM

218 Acknowledgments

Darren Karn and Patrick Blair provided us with lots of great

research support.

The team at Harvard Business Review Press has been terrific as

always. Our thanks to Erin Brown, Julie Devoll, Adi Ignatius, Jeff

Kehoe, Allison Peter, and Erica Truxler. Superagent Tina Bennett

(then of Janklow & Nesbit) did a wonderful job, as always, and

we have been ably supported by Mark Fortier of Fortier Public

Relations.

We also owe a huge debt of gratitude to three intellectual giants

who shaped our thinking on management and strategy. First is our

dear departed friend Peter Drucker, who not only shaped manage-

ment thinking over three-quarters of a century, but helped both

of us personally and did so in the most generous and caring way.

Second is our friend and colleague Michael Porter. Many of the

approaches in this book build off his seminal work in strategy.

P&G’s decision to engage with Michael on strategy in the mid-

1980s was critical to both P&G’s strategic development and our

personal journeys in understanding strategy. Third is the great

organizational learning scholar Chris Argyris, who taught us the

importance of balancing advocacy with inquiry in communication,

a concept that shaped not only our personal practices but the evo-

lution of strategy development at P&G.

In addition, each of us would like to thank individuals within

our personal circles.

Roger

My time at Monitor was seminal to the development of many of the

ideas that contributed to this book. During my thirteen years there,

Mark Fuller was my CEO, and he gave me great latitude and encour-

agement to innovate. I wouldn’t have become the strategist I am

today without his support and forbearance. Then there are two con-

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Acknowledgements.indd 218 11/6/12 8:15 PM

Acknowledgments 219

sultants, both of whom I hired as youngsters, who became wonder-

ful colleagues and taught me a great deal. Sandra Pocharski worked

with me on numerous projects and was a terrific thinking partner on

the development of several of the most important tools in this book.

Jonathan Goodman worked with me on more projects than I can

count and helped me refine the consulting tools that are described in

these pages. Happily, both have gone on to become among the finest

senior strategy consultants in the world. They remain close friends

with whom I am lucky enough to occasionally collaborate.

At the Rotman School, I am supported by a dedicated team

who make it possible for me to spend some of my time writing

books like this one. In addition to the aforementioned Jennifer

Riel, the core team includes Vice Deans Peter Pauly and Jim Fisher,

Chief Operating Officer Mary-Ellen Yeomans, Chief of Staff

Suzanne Spragge, and Executive Assistant Kathryn Davis. I am so

lucky to have them as colleagues.

A.G.

Thirty-three years at P&G afforded me ample opportunity to learn

about business strategy and practice business leadership and man-

agement by doing. There, with clear accountability for strategy,

operations, and results, I learned from my mistakes, lived with my

failures, and appreciated on a daily basis my colleagues’ contribu-

tions to whatever success we were able to achieve together.

I cut my teeth on strategy in what was then called the U.S. Pack-

aged Soap and Detergent Division at P&G, one of the company’s big-

gest, oldest, and most profitable businesses. At one time or another in