SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Business Planning
SUMMARY: The text discusses a shift in Procter & Gamble's strategy review process to foster more strategic thinking, cross-enterprise collaboration, and effective decision-making.
KEYWORDS: strategic planning, strategic thinking, strategic reviews, business strategy, decision-making
---

winning in this category? Was the business team sure? How did

they really know? What were the opportunities related to unmet

consumer needs? What were the most promising innovations and

technologies? What were the threats to category or country or

channel structural attractiveness? What core capabilities was the

business lacking? What was its most troubling or threatening com-

petitor? These reviews focused on very basic, very fundamental

questions with the intent of helping the team make better strategic

choices. The group would spend three or four hours chewing on

the few critical issues together.

We had three reasons for the shift in process. First, we wanted

to shift the culture of the organization to one that was more dia-

logue oriented. Second, we wanted to create a structure in which

the business teams could truly benefit from the experience and

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 132 11/6/12 8:20 PM

Manage What Matters 133

cross-enterprise perspective of senior leaders. And finally, we

wanted to build the strategic-thinking capabilities of P&G’s execu-

tives, asking them to practice thinking through strategic issues

with others in real time. P&G executives are great operators in the

businesses and the functions. The company needed its leaders to

become better strategists because better, more choiceful strategies

would enable yet better operations. P&G needed multidimensional

leaders who could both make tough strategic calls and lead effec-

tive operating teams. The company would need more of these mul-

tidimensional leaders to win in an increasingly complex, global,

and competitive world. So, strategy reviews were redesigned to

work individual and collective strategic muscles.

The change created a good deal of angst at first. Slowly but

surely, though, the review meeting became what we hoped it would

be: an inquiry into the competitiveness, effectiveness, and robustness

of a strategy. In due course, the presidents came to understand that

they wouldn’t be judged on whether they had every aspect of their

strategy buttoned up but rather on whether they could engage in a

productive conversation about the real strategic issues in their busi-

ness. As a result, P&G leaders began to do more strategic thinking,

to have more strategic conversations—not just at strategy reviews,

but in the normal course of business—and the quality of strategic

discourse improved. More importantly, the company saw better

choice making, more willingness to make hard calls, and eventually

better business results.

The new system was a stark contrast to the theater that David

Taylor had been used to: “A.G.’s role was to elevate my thinking

and my team’s thinking to come out with a better strategy than we

came in with.” Freed from an obligation to sell a perfect plan or to

try to impress the boss, Taylor started to enjoy these meetings. He

had the chance, he says, “to engage in a conversation with really

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 133 11/6/12 8:20 PM

134 Playing to Win

smart people. It became nonthreatening to have a conversation and

not have all the answers, because A.G. didn’t attack. If he disagreed,

he would do it in a very thought-provoking way . . . The tone of

the meeting was very conversational and engaging. We sat down,

talked, handed things [across the table].” Looking back, he says,

the dynamic was tied to the questions at the heart of strategy: “The

whole feel of the meetings . . . they weren’t about how we deliver

the forecast this year or how we deliver the forecast next year. It

wasn’t about profit or people or other short-term issues. They were

about, where are you going to play and how are you going to win?”

Melanie Healey, now group president North America, was also

an enthusiast for the new process:

What we would do is agree up front with A.G. on the key

strategic issues that he wanted to have us address in these

meetings—in addition, of course, to the strategic topics we

wanted to talk about . . . The [meetings] actually worked

very well, because there were never any big, huge surprise

discussions that we were unprepared for. Given we had

agreement to the subjects ahead of the meetings, we made

sure that with the prereading we’d send out ahead of time,

everyone had sufficient background to engage in a produc-

tive dialogue, add value, and provide outstanding input

on the critical strategic elements we needed help on. We

always came out of these meetings with some terrific builds

on our strategic choices from very experienced leaders in

the company.2

Of course, no process is flawless and no remedy can satisfy

every user. One president, a terrific leader and strategist, was less

impressed with the new format, which he saw as difficult to imple-

ment in his mature business, a less-than-perfect fit with P&G’s

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 134 11/6/12 8:20 PM

Manage What Matters 135

achievement culture, and potentially uncomfortable for partici-

pants, including himself:

The meetings themselves, although A.G. tried to make

them true work sessions—where we think through options,

where we think through the business landscape and the

choices we could make and why this alternative choice is

better than the other and all that—they rarely got to that

in-depth, true strategic conversation. It’s not because A.G.

didn’t try; it’s because frankly the culture of P&G got

in the way. If I am the president of the business and I’m

sitting across from A.G. and his lieutenants, I am not going

to make myself vulnerable by saying, “Hey, here are the

four things we looked at. This is what we think we should