SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Competitive Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of conducting a competitive analysis to evaluate potential where-to-play and how-to-win choices for a sustainable competitive advantage.
KEYWORDS: competitive analysis, strategic choices, competitive reaction, sustainable advantage, strategy development
---

savings to be invested in boosting core capabilities throughout the

organization.

Competitive Analysis

Thinking through the first six boxes in figure 7-1 should produce a

range of potential where-to-play and how-to-win choices. Before

even thinking about deciding between these possibilities, you need

to evaluate these potential places to play and ways to win for robust-

ness against your current competitive strategies and anticipated

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 173 11/6/12 8:21 PM

174 Playing to Win

competitor reaction. This is the fourth and final element of the

logic flow. The question to address is this: is there some competi-

tive response that could undermine or trump the where-to-play and

how-to-win choices?

Inevitably, this is guesswork to some degree; you can’t know

for sure what a competitor will or won’t do in the face of your

actions. But forming a thoughtful hypothesis is important. It is

far better to ask what your competitors will likely do before you

proceed than to simply wait and see what happens. Only strate-

gies that provide a sustainable advantage—or a significant lead in

developing future advantages—are worth investing in. You don’t

want to design and build a strategy that a competitor can copy in a

heartbeat, or one that will prove ineffective against a simple defen-

sive maneuver on a competitor’s part. A strategy that only works if

competitors continue to do exactly what they are already doing is a

dangerous strategy indeed.

An analysis of the competitive landscape and potential com-

petitive reaction was particularly decisive in the Impress and

ForceFlex technologies, the bags and wraps innovations that would

eventually form the basis of P&G’s joint venture with Glad. The

family-care team was quite sure that P&G’s entry into an already

competitive space would cause an all-out war, one in which P&G

might not prevail, even with a superior technology. So the team

knew it needed to find another way to play to win. The analysis of

anticipated competitive response was the spur to create a new and

better strategy for commercializing the technologies.

Competitive reaction was also a crucial consideration in P&G’s

decision to launch a new dish detergent in Japan in the 1990s. At

the time, the market was dominated by two massive players: Kao

and Lion. Both sold dish soap in bottles that were quite sizable

because the soap was diluted with lots of water. There was little dif-

ferentiation between the products, other than name and f ragrance.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 174 11/6/12 8:21 PM

Think Through Strategy 175

Bob McDonald, then vice president of laundry and cleaning prod-

ucts in Asia (and soon to be president of Japan operations), and

his team saw an opportunity to launch Joy, using the proprietary

grease-fighting technology from P&G’s successful US Dawn brand.

The product would be sold in a highly concentrated form, in a bot-

tle one-quarter the size of competitive offerings.

Joy looked to be a good fit with consumer values (a better

grease-fighting technology was the answer to a genuine consumer

need), and the team believed it could get retailers excited about sell-

ing more bottles with less shelf space and a healthy price premium.

But how would the entrenched and powerful competitors react?

The team modeled the possible reactions and determined that if the

competitors stayed with their existing diluted format, Joy could win

handily. If the competitors chose to launch a concentrated version,

but continued to produce diluted as well, Joy would still win, as

the competition would face considerably higher costs and be chal-

lenged by a split focus. The only real danger was if the competitors

dropped their diluted versions and threw everything behind new,

concentrated detergents. If they did, Joy would have little chance

with a similar product going against established local competitors.

The team had to make its best guess about the competitors’

likely course of action. Kao and Lion were large, traditional firms

with a great deal invested in their current approach, especially

given that the vast majority of their category profit came from these

diluted formulas. The team believed that at worst, the competitors

would move to producing both dilute and concentrate. This would

give Joy time to gain a foothold. The competitors indeed chose to

defend their existing dilute product lines while also launching a

concentrated version—which gave Joy the opportunity to create a

sizable new segment and take most of it. By 1997, Joy had captured

30 percent of the total dish detergent market and was the number

one dish brand in the country.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch07.indd 175 11/6/12 8:21 PM

176 Playing to Win

A Framework for Strategy

To make good choices, you need to make sense of the complex-

ity of your environment. The strategy logic flow can point you to

the key areas of analysis necessary to generate sustainable competi-

tive advantage. First, look to understand the industry in which you

play (or will play), its distinct segments and their relative attractive-

ness. Without this step, it is all too easy to assume that your map of

the world is the only possible map, that the world is unchanging,

and that no better possibilities exist. Next, turn to customers. What

do channel and end consumers truly want, need, and value—and

how do those needs fit with your current or potential offerings? To

answer this question, you will have to dig deep—engaging in joint

value creation with channel partners and seeking a new under-

standing of end consumers. After customers, the lens turns inward:

what are your capabilities and costs relative to the competition?