SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Emerging Market Strategy
SUMMARY: P&G sought to expand its business into emerging markets like India, China, and Russia, focusing on categories like baby care, laundry, and beauty.
KEYWORDS: emerging markets, market expansion, product portfolio, strategic priorities
---

needed to begin broadening our portfolio and developing competi-

tive propositions, including cost structures that would allow us to

reach deeper into these emerging markets. There are a billion con-

sumers in India, and we were reaching the top 10 percent of them.”

Emerging markets would be an important where-to-play

choice, but not all emerging markets all at once. China and Russia

represented unique opportunities, as their markets opened to all

comers at the same time. P&G had focused on these countries first

and established strong, strategic leading positions in both markets.

Now, the company thought hard about which emerging markets

to target next, and with which products and categories. Baby care

in Asia, for instance, made great sense—since, for the foreseeable

future, most of the world’s babies would be born in Asia. Laundry

and beauty also made sense in emerging markets, for reasons of

brand equity, scale, and consumer preference. So, P&G sought to

make inroads in Asia, in those three categories, and it did. By 2011,

35 percent of total sales came from the developing world.

In sum, there were three critical where-to-play choices for

P&G at the corporate level:

• Grow in and from the core businesses, focusing on core

consumer segments, channels, customers, geographies,

brands, and product technologies.

• Extend leadership in laundry and home care, and build to

market leadership in the more demographically advan-

taged and structurally attractive beauty and personal-care

categories.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 23 11/6/12 8:13 PM

24 Playing to Win

• Expand to leadership in demographically advantaged

emerging markets, prioritizing markets by their strategic

importance to P&G.

In chapter 3, we’ll return to the question of where to play,

exploring the different ways to define your playing field and the

lessons that can be learned from brands like Bounty and Tide.

How to Win

Where to play selects the playing field; how to win defines the

choices for winning on that field. It is the recipe for success in

the chosen segments, categories, channels, geographies, and so on.

The how-to-win choice is intimately tied to the where-to-play

choice. Remember, it is not how to win generally, but how to win

within the chosen where-to-play domains.

The where-to-play and how-to-win choices should flow from

and reinforce one another. Think of the contrast between two

kinds of restaurant empires—say, Olive Garden versus Mario

Batali. Both specialize in Italian food, and both are successful

across multiple locations. But they represent very different where-

to-play choices.

Olive Garden is a midpriced, casual dining chain with con-

siderable scale—more than seven hundred restaurants around the

world. As a result, its how-to-win choices relate to meeting the

needs of average diners and focus on achieving reliable, consis-

tent outcomes when hiring thousands of employees to reproduce

millions of meals that will suit a wide array of tastes. Mario Batali,

on the other hand, competes at the very high end of the fine- dining

space and does so in just a few places—New York, Las Vegas, Los

Angeles, and Singapore. He wins by designing innovative and

exciting recipes; sourcing the very best of ingredients; delivering

superlative, customized service; and sharing his cachet with his

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 24 11/6/12 8:13 PM

Strategy Is Choice 25

foodie patrons—cachet generated by Batali’s Food Network celeb-

rity and friendships with the likes of actress Gwyneth Paltrow.

In great strategies, the where-to-play and how-to-win choices

fit together to make the company stronger. Given their where-to-

play choices, it would not make sense for Olive Garden to try to

win by increasing the celebrity status of its head chef, nor for Batali

to even contemplate making each location look just like the others.

But if Batali wanted to seriously expand to a lower-priced, casual

dining range, as Wolfgang Puck has done, Batali would need to

expand his how-to-win choices to fit the new, broader where-to-

play choice. If he failed to do so, he would likely fail to engage the

new market. Where-to-play and how-to-win choices must be con-

sidered together, because no how-to-win is perfect, or even appro-

priate, for all where-to-play choices.

To determine how to win, an organization must decide what

will enable it to create unique value and sustainably deliver that

value to customers in a way that is distinct from the firm’s com-

petitors. Michael Porter called it competitive advantage—the spe-

cific way a firm utilizes its advantages to create superior value for a

consumer or a customer and in turn, superior returns for the firm.

For Olay, the how-to-win choices were to formulate genu-

inely better skin-care products that could actually fight the signs

of aging, to create a powerful marketing campaign that clearly

articulated the brand promise (“Fight the Seven Signs of Aging”),

and to establish a masstige channel, working with mass retailers to

compete directly with prestige brands. The masstige choice, which

was a decision to win in the channels P&G knew best, required

significant changes in product formulation, package design, brand-

ing, and pricing to reframe the value proposition for retailers and

consumers.

Corporately, P&G chose to compete from the core; to extend into

home, beauty, health, and personal care; and to expand into emerg-

ing markets. The how-to-win choices needed to work optimally with

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 25 11/6/12 8:13 PM

26 Playing to Win

these where-to-play choices. To be successful, how-to-win choices

should be suited to the specific context of the firm in question and

highly difficult for competitors to copy. P&G’s competitive advan-

tages are its ability to understand its core consumers and to create