SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Operations and Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses how P&G structured its management systems and capabilities to support its strategy, including the use of global business services and systems for employee development and brand marketing.
KEYWORDS: management systems, capabilities, strategy, global business services, brand marketing
---

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 28 11/6/12 8:13 PM

Strategy Is Choice 29

market together. In the 1990s, P&G amalgamated a whole suite

of internal support services, like employee services and IT,

under one umbrella—global business services (GBS)—to allow

it to capture the scale benefits of those functions globally.

These five core capabilities support and reinforce one

another and, taken together, set P&G apart. In isolation, each

capability is strong, but insufficient to generate true competi-

tive advantage over the long term. Rather, the way all of them

work together and reinforce each other is what generates endur-

ing advantage. A great new idea coming out of P&G labs can

be effectively branded and shelved around the world in the best

retail outlets in each market. That combination is hard for com-

petitors to match. Core capabilities, and the way in which they

relate to competitive advantage, will be discussed further in

chapter 5.

Management Systems

The final strategic choice in the cascade focuses on management

systems. These are the systems that foster, support, and measure

the strategy. To be truly effective, they must be purposefully

designed to support the choices and capabilities. The types of sys-

tems and measures will vary from choice to choice, capability to

capability, and company to company. In general, though, the sys-

tems need to ensure that choices are communicated to the whole

company, employees are trained to deliver on choices and leverage

capabilities, plans are made to invest in and sustain capabilities over

time, and the efficacy of the choices and progress toward aspira-

tions are measured.

Beneath Olay’s choices and capabilities, the team built

supporting systems and measures that included a “love the job

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 29 11/6/12 8:13 PM

30 Playing to Win

you’re in” human resources strategy (to encourage personal

development and deepen the talent pool in the beauty sector) and

detailed tracking systems to measure consumer responses to brand,

package, product lines, and every other element of the m arketing

mix. Olay organized around innovation, creating a structure

wherein one team was working on the strategy and rollout of

current products while another was designing the next generation.

It developed technical marketers, individuals with expertise in

R&D as well as marketing, who could speak credibly to dermatol-

ogists and beauty editors. It created systems to partner with lead-

ing in-store marketing and design firms, to create Olay displays

that were eye-catching and inviting to shop. It also leveraged P&G

systems like global purchasing, the global market development

organization (MDO), and GBS so that individuals on the skin-care

and Olay teams were freed up to focus where they added the most

value.

At the corporate level, management systems included strategy

dialogues, innovation-program reviews, brand-equity reviews,

budget and operating plan discussions, and talent assessment devel-

opment reviews. From the year 2000 on, every one of these man-

agement systems was changed significantly so that it became more

effective. All of these systems were tightly integrated, mutually

reinforcing, and crucial to winning. Management systems in gen-

eral, and the way they work specifically at P&G, will be explored

in greater depth in chapter 6.

The Power of Choices

We began this discussion with the Olay story. In our view, Olay

succeeded because it had an integrated set of five strategic choices

(figure 1-3) that fit beautifully with the choices of the corporate

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 30 11/6/12 8:13 PM

Strategy Is Choice 31

FIGURE 1-3

Olay’s choices

• Move upmarket (in “masstige” channel) with existing

mass retailers

• Target younger women in their 30s and 40s who are

What is our beginning to want and need anti-aging products

winning • Sell in major geographies (North America and UK)

aspiration?

• Leverage P&G’s capabilities

to the company’s context in

• Become a Where will we consumer understanding,

leading skin-care play? brand building, innovation,

brand going to market, and scale

• Help establish a • Partner to build full range of

key pillar in the P&G How will we beauty, design, innovation,

beauty-care business, win in chosen and marketing capabilities

along with hair care markets? needed to win with

• Win convincingly What consumers, channels, and

in our chosen channels • Better anti-aging capabilities influencers

and markets skin-care products must be in

• Winning marketing place to win?

campaign connected What

to consumer insights management

(“Fight the Seven Signs systems are

of Aging”) required?

• Establish a “masstige” segment

to compete directly against • Leverage P&G systems

prestige brands in department • Channel and partner

and specialty stores systems

• “Love the job you’re in”

parent (figure 1-4). Because the choices were well integrated and

reinforced category-, sector-, and company-level choices, succeed-

ing at the Olay brand level actually helped deliver on the strategies

above it.

Olay leveraged P&G’s core capabilities in ways that made

sense for the brand. The Olay team used deep consumer under-

standing to determine just where and how it could position Olay

as an anti-aging powerhouse. It leveraged scale and R&D leader-

ship to create a better product at a competitive price. It used P&G’s

brand- building expertise and channel relationships to convince

consumers to try the product on the store shelves. All of this was

crucial to reinventing the brand, to transforming its position in the

marketplace, and to truly winning.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 31 11/6/12 8:13 PM

32 Playing to Win

FIGURE 1-4

P&G’s choices

• Grow from the core, focusing on leading

brands, core markets, and mass customers

• Extend into home, beauty, health, and personal