SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Management Systems
SUMMARY: Building effective management systems to support strategic choices is crucial but requires considering individual context and capabilities.
KEYWORDS: management systems, strategic choices, organizational capabilities
---

the management systems that support the choices.

Building management systems takes time, money, and

focus. There is no one-size-fits-all set of systems; they need to

be geared to individual context and capabilities. Until a set of

systems and measures is in place, the strategic choice cascade is

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 154 11/6/12 8:20 PM

Manage What Matters 155

incomplete and your strategy job is not done (not that it is ever

truly done!).

The five choices of the strategy choice cascade summarize and

define the strategy for an organization (or category or brand). Hav-

ing delved into each choice to explain how it is made and having

provided examples to illustrate the point, we will now step back

to the broader question of how to actually make critical strategic

choices. What do you need to consider to make informed choices?

What should you think about, and when? How do you weigh

competing and opposing options to come to a single smart choice?

And how do you make these decisions in a group? These are vital

questions to consider as you bring this strategy approach to your

organization. They will be discussed in the next two chapters.

ManageMent SySteMS and MeaSureS doS and don’tS

3 Don’t stop at capabilities; ask yourself which manage-

ment systems are needed to foster those capabilities.

3 Do continue strategic discussions throughout the year,

building an internal rhythm that keeps focus on the

choices that matter.

3 Do think about clarity and simplicity when communicating

key strategic choices to the organization. To get at the

core, don’t overcomplicate things.

3 Do build systems and measures that support both

enterprise-wide capabilities and business-specific

capabilities.

3 Do define measures that will tell you, over the short and

long run, how you are performing relative to your strategic

choices.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 155 11/6/12 8:20 PM

156 Playing to Win

CoMMuniCating to the organization

by A.G. Lafley

One of the biggest lessons I had learned in my years at P&G

was the power of simplicity and clarity. I found that clearer, sim-

pler strategies have the best chance of winning, because they

can be best understood and internalized by the organization.

Strategies that can be explained in a few words are more likely

to be empowering and motivating; they make it easier to make

subsequent choices and to take action. It was a lesson I had

first learned in Asia, where I worked for eight years—three in

the 1970s and five in the 1990s. Then, English was typically

the second language of Asian employees. So, the simpler and

clearer the language I used, the more likely it would be under-

stood. The better the choices were understood, the more likely

they would lead to action.

As CEO, I applied those lessons to the strategic direction of

P&G overall. I set about communicating my choices and intent

in the simplest and most compelling terms I could. To begin,

I reaffirmed the company’s purpose, values, and principles: to

serve the world’s consumers and to make the everyday lives of

consumers better with P&G brands and products. I talked openly

and often about integrity and trust as the fundamental basis for

doing business with consumers, customers, partners, suppliers,

and each other. I talked about how all P&G-ers were owners of

our company and leaders of their respective businesses. And

I talked about the spirit of P&G, about P&G’s passion for winning

with those who matter most—consumers—and against our very

best competitors.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 156 11/6/12 8:20 PM

Manage What Matters 157

I explicitly placed the consumer at the center of it all. I p rioritized

the consumer ahead of all other stakeholders, including customers,

shareholders, and employees. I started with consumers, because

the purpose of a business is to create consumers and to serve

them better than anyone else can. No consumers, no business.

I said P&G had to win the consumer value equation and the first

two consumer moments of truth. I talked about retail customers

and suppliers as partners in s erving c onsumers better. I spoke

of employees as the company’s primary assets. I said that if P&G

served more consumers better, if it innovated with its brands and

products, its business models and work systems, and if we worked

together more productively, then the company would grow and pros-

per and continue to be a preferred place of employment. Finally,

I positioned our share price as a reflection of our ability to profitably

serve more consumers better.

I really tried to distill things down as a way to get the choices

understood. There’s no doubt in my mind that clarity makes a dif-

ference. Clear and simple, easily translatable choices were cru-

cial to get 135,000 P&G-ers in ninety countries operating with

excellence every day.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 157 11/6/12 8:20 PM

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 158 11/6/12 8:20 PM

Chapter Seven

Think Through Strategy

T

o this point, we have framed the five questions in the strategic

choice cascade (what is your winning aspiration, where will you

play, how will you win, what capabilities will you use, and what man-

agement systems will you employ?) and argued that all five must be

answered, coordinated, and integrated to craft a powerful strategy