SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning and Decision Making
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of generating and considering diverse possibilities in the strategic planning process, without prematurely dismissing ideas.
KEYWORDS: strategic planning, creative ideation, decision-making, open-mindedness, possibilities
---

sioning a world in which that story makes good sense.

Possibilities should be welcomed at this stage, not thoroughly

vetted for inclusion. Suggested possibilities should never be triv-

ialized or dismissed, lest that discourage the inclusion of more

out-of-the-box ideas in the consideration set. Within the group,

there must be a fundamental commitment to openness, such that

if any member of the group feels that a given possibility is worth

exploring, it should automatically be included in the choice set.

Culling a possibility about which a particular individual feels

strongly may well cause that individual to withdraw, perhaps for

the rest of the process. So inclusion, rather than exclusion, is the

rule at this stage.

Inevitably, as the creative possibilities pile up, group members

may begin to feel uncomfortable. Just the act of considering some

choices may feel downright seditious. But be assured that this is

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 189 11/6/12 8:22 PM

190 Playing to Win

only the beginning of a longer process. Every choice will have its

logic laid out in precisely the same manner and will be held to the

highest standards of assessment. Subsequent steps of the process

will weed out possibilities appropriately, so it is unnecessary (and

unhelpful) to do so at this stage.

The possibilities generated may be related to the options already

identified, as either amplifications or nuances. Oil of Olay possibili-

ties that derived from the initial options included growing Oil of

Olay within its existing pricing tier or taking it upmarket, buying

Nivea, or purchasing Clinique. The possibilities can also expand fur-

ther beyond the original two options. For P&G’s beauty business,

ideas included extending its successful color cosmetics brand, Cover

Girl, into skin care and building a global brand from that platform.

In the end, the P&G beauty team focused on five where-to-play

and how-to-win possibilities for skin care. One was to largely give

up on Oil of Olay and to acquire a major global skin-care brand.

A second was to keep Oil of Olay positioned as an entry-priced,

mass-market brand, strengthening its appeal to current consumers

by leveraging R&D capabilities to improve wrinkle-fighting perfor-

mance. A third was to take Oil of Olay up-market into the prestige

distribution channel as an upscale brand. A fourth was to reinvent

Olay totally—as a prestige-like brand that appealed more broadly to

younger women (age thirty-five to fifty), but sold in the traditional

mass channels with retail partners that would be willing to create a

masstige experience with a special display section in the store. A fifth

was to extend the Cover Girl brand from cosmetics into skin care.

3. Specify Conditions

Once a diverse set of possibilities is established, the team then needs

to reverse engineer the logic of each possibility. That is, it needs to

specify what must be true for the possibility to be a terrific choice.

Notice, this step is decidedly not for arguing about what is true,

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 190 11/6/12 8:22 PM

Shorten Your Odds 191

but rather for laying out the logic of what would have to be true for

the group to collectively commit to a choice.

The difference between the two approaches cannot be over-

stated. In a standard strategy discussion, skeptics attack ideas as

vigorously as possible to knock options out of contention, and

defenders parry the arguments to protect pet options. Tempers rise,

statements get more extreme, and relationships are strained. Mean-

while, little new or helpful information emerges. If instead the dia-

logue is about what would have to be true, then the skeptic can say,

“For me to be confident in this possibility, we would have to know

that consumers would respond in the following way.” This is a

very different sort of statement than “That option will never work!

Consumers hate that approach.” Rather than a b lanket denun-

ciation of a possibility, skeptics in the reverse-engineering process

must specify the exact source of their skepticism. This frame helps

the possibility’s proponents understand the reservations and c reates

a standard of proof to address them.

This process is a form of reverse engineering because the start-

ing point is the (tentative) assumption that the conclusion is valid—

namely, that this is a great possibility. The team then works to

understand the conditions under which that assumption is correct.

It works backward to declare the various conditions that would

have to hold for this to be a great possibility. Figure 8-3 shows the

logic flow of this reverse-engineering exercise. In each of the seven

boxes, you can list what would have to be true along that dimen-

sion for the option in question to be valid.

At this reverse-engineering stage, there is absolutely no inter-

est in opinions as to whether the conditions pertaining to a given

possibility are true. In fact, expressing such opinions is counter-

productive. The only interest is in ferreting out what would have

to be true for every member of the group to feel intellectually and

emotionally committed to the possibility under consideration.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 191 11/6/12 8:22 PM

192 Playing to Win

Figure 8-3

Laying out the conditions

To pursue this possibility, what would have to be true?

Industry Customer value Analysis of Competitor

analysis analysis relative position analysis

Segmentation Channel Capabilities

What must we How must we

believe are the What must we believe our

strategically believe that the capabilities stack

distinct channel values? up against Prediction

segments? competitors’?

How must we Strategic

believe our possibility

Industry structure End consumer Costs competitors react in question