SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Business Planning
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of strategic choices in where a company should play, focusing on factors like customer needs, product offerings, and distribution channels.
KEYWORDS: where-to-play, strategic choices, customer understanding, distribution channels, portfolio strategy
---

to play. This is more straightforward when you are considering

where to expand (or not), but considerably harder when consider-

ing if you should stay in the places and segments you currently

serve. The status quo—continuing on in the locations and seg-

ments you’ve always been—is all too often an implicit, unexam-

ined choice. Simply because you have made a given where-to-play

choice in the past is not a reason to stay there. Consider a com-

pany like General Electric. A decade ago, it derived considerable

revenue from its entertainment holdings (NBC and Universal)

and materials businesses (plastic and silicon). Today, it has remade

its portfolio to focus much more on infrastructure, energy, and

transportation, where its distinctive capabilities can make a real

difference to winning. This was an explicit choice about where not

to play.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 58 11/6/12 8:18 PM

Where to Play 59

Inevitably, the significance of each dimension of the where-

to-play choice will vary by context. Each dimension must be con-

sidered thoughtfully and will hold different weight in different

situations. A start-up might focus first on the products or services

to be offered. A stagnating giant might focus on customers—look-

ing for a deeper understanding of needs and new ways to approach

segmentation—to narrow and refine an overly broad where-to-

play choice.

At P&G, where to play choices start with the consumer: Who

is she? What does the consumer want and need? To win with mom,

P&G invests heavily in truly understanding her—through obser-

vation, through home visits, through a significant investment in

uncovering unmet and unexpressed needs. Only through a con-

certed effort to understand the consumer, her needs, and the way

in which P&G can best serve those needs is it possible to effec-

tively determine where to play—which businesses to enter or leave,

which products to sell, which markets to prioritize, and so on. As

current CEO Bob McDonald explains, “We don’t give lip service

to consumer understanding. We dig deep. We immerse ourselves in

people’s day-to-day lives. We work hard to find the tensions that

we can help resolve. From those tensions come insights that lead to

big ideas.”2 Those big ideas can be the basis of a powerful where-

to-play choice.

The distribution channel choice also tends to loom large for

P&G, because of the dominant size and market power of the retail-

ers in question. Tesco has more than 30 percent of the UK market.3

Walmart serves some 200 million Americans every week.4 Other

players, like Loblaw in Canada or Carrefour in Europe, have sub-

stantial regional presence. For this reason, channel is a particularly

crucial where-to-play consideration for the company. Of course,

for some industries, there is no real channel consideration (e.g., in

service industries that deal directly with the end consumer). Again,

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 59 11/6/12 8:18 PM

60 Playing to Win

context matters—and each company must assess the weight of the

different where-to-play choices for itself.

One final consideration for where to play is the competitive

set. Just as it does when it defines winning aspirations, a com-

pany should make its where-to-play choices with the competi-

tion firmly in mind. Choosing a playing field identical to a strong

competitor’s can be a less attractive proposition than tacking

away to compete in a different way, for different customers, or

in different product lines. But strategy isn’t simply a matter of

finding a distinctive path. A company may choose to play in a

crowded field or in one with a dominant competitor if the com-

pany can bring new and distinctive value. In such a case, winning

may mean targeting the lead competitor right away or going after

weaker competitors first.

So it was with Tide. When Liquid Tide was introduced in 1984,

P&G was entering the liquid-detergent category against a strong,

established competitor. Even with strong brand equity from its

powdered detergent, this wouldn’t be an easy win. Wisk, Unilever’s

market-leading liquid detergent, was a powerful, established brand

with loyal customers. For the first two or three years, Wisk did

not give up a share point against Liquid Tide. In Liquid Tide’s first

year, Wisk actually gained share. Clearly, Wisk users weren’t mov-

ing to Tide. But P&G didn’t need to steal Wisk users to win in

the category, at least not right away. The high-profile launch of

Liquid Tide helped expand the overall liquid-detergent category,

and P&G picked up the lion’s share of the expansion. Liquid Tide

created new consumers for liquid detergent, and none of them had

a loyalty to Wisk. As the category grew, Tide could begin to take

share from smaller players, like Dynamo, which couldn’t compete

with P&G’s R&D, scale, and brand-building expertise. Only then,

having built critical mass, would Liquid Tide need to go after Wisk

directly. At that point, the battle was all but won.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 60 11/6/12 8:18 PM

Where to Play 61

For Liquid Tide, it wasn’t a matter of avoiding a playing field

that held a fierce competitor. It was about expanding the playing

field to make room for the two competitors and creating time to

gain momentum. In the end, Liquid Tide won and took the market

lead decisively.

Three Dangerous Temptations

As we’ve noted, there is a lot to consider when crafting a winning

where-to-play choice, from consumers to channels and custom-

ers; to competition; to local, regional, and global differences. In the

face of that kind of complexity, your strategy can easily fall prey

to oversimplification, resignation, even desperation. In particular,