SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses two generic strategies, cost leadership and differentiation, that successful companies can use to gain a sustainable competitive advantage.
KEYWORDS: cost leadership, differentiation, competitive advantage, pricing strategy, market share
---

ment (which is heavily weighted to high-cost Japan). However, the

automaker is able to earn a price premium of several thousand dol-

lars per vehicle over its competitors in the US car market, while

producing vehicles at similar cost. The best-selling Camry and

Corolla models have a reputation for superior quality, reliability,

and durability, driving the significant price premium. This differ-

entiation advantage means that when it wants to gain market share,

Toyota can cut its prices without destroying profitability—and

its competitors won’t have the resources to respond. Or Toyota

can invest some of the premium to add new, desirable features to

its vehicles. In doing so, it can actually reinforce its differentiation

advantage.

All successful strategies take one of these two approaches, cost

leadership or differentiation. Both cost leadership and differentia-

tion can provide to the company a greater margin between revenue

and costs than competitors can match—thus producing a sustain-

able winning advantage (figure 4-1). This is ultimately the goal of

any strategy.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 84 11/6/12 8:19 PM

How to Win 85

FIGURE 4-1

Alternative winning value equations for low-cost strategies and

differentiation strategies

Margin

Cost

Value

Average competitor Cost leader Differentiator

Though there are just two generic strategies, firms have many

ways to employ them. In fact, in limited cases, firms can employ

both strategies at the same time—driving a significant price pre-

mium over competitors and producing at a lower cost than those

same competitors. This dual-strategy approach is rare, but it is

possible if the company has an overwhelming share advantage and

substantial scale-sensitive costs. IBM, at the height of its domi-

nance of the mainframe computer business, is a historic example.

Google and eBay are examples in the current era. P&G, in certain

businesses like laundry detergents, feminine care, and fragrances, is

a differentiator with cost advantages driven by market leadership

and global scale. Typically, though, because markets are dynamic

and new competitors find unexpected and innovative ways to

deliver value, the companies that pursue low-cost and differen-

tiation at the same time are eventually forced to choose (as IBM

was, when Hitachi and Fujitsu Microelectronics entered main-

frame computing with much lower cost strategies or as eBay has

been forced to do, in the face of Craigslist and other alternatives).

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 85 11/6/12 8:19 PM

86 Playing to Win

FIGURE 4-2

Differing imperatives under low-cost strategies and differentiation

strategies

• Systemic understanding of

costs/cost drivers

• Relentless reduction of costs

• Sacrifice of nonconforming

customers

Low cost

• Commitment to standardization

Sustainable

competitive

advantage

• Deep and holistic

Differentiation

understanding of customers

• Intensive brand building

• Jealous guarding of

customers

• Commitment to innovation

It is very difficult to pursue both cost leadership and differentia-

tion, because each requires a very specific approach to the market

(figure 4-2).

In other words, life inside a cost leader looks very differ-

ent from life inside a differentiator. In a cost leader, managers are

forever looking to better understand the drivers of costs and are

modifying their operations accordingly. In a differentiator, manag-

ers are forever attempting to deepen their holistic understanding of

customers to learn how to serve them more distinctively. In a cost

leader, cost reduction is relentlessly pursued, while in a differentia-

tor, the brand is relentlessly built.

Customers are seen and treated very differently. At a cost

leader, nonconforming customers—that is, customers who want

something special and different from what the firm currently pro-

duces—are sacrificed to ensure standardization of the product or

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 86 11/6/12 8:19 PM

How to Win 87

service, all in the pursuit of cost-effectiveness. At a differentiator,

customers are jealously guarded. If customers indicate a desire for

something different, the firm tries to design a new offering that

the customers will adore. And if a customer leaves, the depar-

ture drives a stake in the heart of the firm, indicating a failure of

the strategy with that customer. It is as simple as the difference

between Southwest Airlines and Apple. If, as a customer, you say

to Southwest, “I really would like advance seat selection, interline

baggage checking, and to fly into O’Hare not Midway when I go

to Chicago,” Southwest will say, “Great, you should try United

Airlines.” At Apple, if customers say, “Wow, this iPad is beauti-

ful,” Apple will take that as a cue to bring out an even prettier next-

generation iPad.

Both cost leadership and differentiation require the pursuit

of distinctiveness. You don’t get to be a cost leader by producing

your product or service exactly as your competitors do, and you

don’t get to be a differentiator by trying to produce a product or

service identical to your competitors’. To succeed in the long run,

you must make thoughtful, creative decisions about how to win.

In doing so, you enable your organization to sustainably provide a

better value equation for consumers than competitors do and cre-

ate competitive advantage.

Competitive advantage provides the only protection a com-

pany can have. A company with a competitive advantage earns a

greater margin between revenue and cost than other companies do

for engaging in the same activity. A firm can use that additional

margin to fight those other companies, which will not have the

resources to defend themselves. It can use that advantage to win.

Low cost and differentiation seem like simple concepts, but they

are very powerful in terms of keeping companies honest about

their strategies. Many companies like to describe themselves as

winning through operational effectiveness or customer intimacy.