SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Core Capabilities
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of identifying and investing in core capabilities that provide a competitive advantage for a company.
KEYWORDS: core capabilities, competitive advantage, strategic planning, P&G, investing
---

ucts. When articulating core capabilities, you need to distinguish

between generic strengths and critical, mutually reinforcing activi-

ties. A company needs to invest disproportionately in building the

core capabilities that together produce competitive advantage.

When thinking about capabilities, you may be tempted to sim-

ply ask what you are really good at and attempt to build a strat-

egy from there. The danger of doing so is that the things you’re

currently good at may actually be irrelevant to consumers and in

no way confer a competitive advantage. Rather than starting with

capabilities and looking for ways to win with those capabilities,

you need to start with setting aspirations and determining where to

play and how to win. Then, you can consider capabilities in light of

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 114 11/7/12 1:18 AM

Play to Your Strengths 115

those choices. Only in this way can you see what you should start

doing, keep doing, and stop doing in order to win.

Back at the retreat, after a good night’s sleep and with time to

reflect on clearer criteria, the group came to five core capabilities:

1. Understanding consumers. Really knowing the c onsumers,

uncovering their unmet needs, and designing s olutions

for them better than any competitor can. In other words,

making the consumer the boss in order to win the c onsumer

value equation.

2. Creating and building brands. Launching and cultivating

brands with powerful consumer value equations for true

longevity in the marketplace.

3. Innovating (in the broadest sense). R&D with the aim of

advancing materials science and inventing breakthrough

new products, but also taking an innovative approach to

business models, external partnerships, and the way P&G

does business.

4. Partnering and going to market with customers and

suppliers. Being the partner of choice by virtue of P&G’s

willingness to work together on joint business plans and to

share joint value creation.

5. Leveraging global scale. Operating as one company to

maximize buying power, cross-brand synergies, and devel-

opment of globally replicable capabilities.

Once the capabilities were articulated, the team then spent

most of the day deciding how and where to begin investing in each

capability to broaden and deepen competitive advantage. It wrote

an action plan for each of the five capabilities to create competitive

advantage at the corporate, category, and brand levels.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 115 11/7/12 1:18 AM

116 Playing to Win

These capability choices would guide P&G’s strategic choices

for the next decade. The five P&G capabilities can be understood

as forming the basis of P&G’s company-level activity system. In

our adaptation of Porter’s original concept, the activity system

captures the core capabilities required to win, the relationships

between them, and the activities that support them; this map

supports where-to-play and how-to-win choices, as shown in

figure 5-1.

In this system, the core capabilities are shown as large nodes,

and the links between the large nodes represent important rein-

forcing relationships. These reinforcing relationships make each

FIGURE 5-1

Procter & Gamble activity system

Agency Brand-

Global

relationships building

purchasing

framework

Global Brand building

business

services

Consumer

Design research Leadership

culture

Scale

Consumer-

driven

measurement Consumer

systems understanding

Innovation

Customer

teams

Connect

Go-to-market +

capabilities Develop

GBU/MDO Globally

structure Shopper distributed

marketing

R&D

Connect + Develop is P&G’s open-innovation program; see also chapter 6. Abbreviations: GBU, global

business unit; MDO, market development organization.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 116 11/7/12 1:18 AM

Play to Your Strengths 117

capability stronger, which is an essential characteristic of an activity

system: the system as a whole is stronger than any of the compo-

nent capabilities, insofar as those capabilities fit with and reinforce

one another. For instance, there is a close connection between con-

sumer understanding and innovation. For P&G, innovation must

be consumer centered if it is to be meaningful and provide com-

petitive advantage—so innovation requires a deep understanding

of the needs of consumers. The goal is to connect consumer needs

with what is technologically possible. Innovation is also connected

to go-to-market capabilities. New innovative products keep retail

channel partners excited about P&G and reinforce the close rela-

tionship between the company and its best customers—but only

if P&G takes care to think of both retailers and end consumers

during the R&D process. A great new product for consumers is of

little use to P&G if it can’t be shelved and sold effectively within

retail channels. And of course, innovation can also be brought to

bear on retail relationships, improving in-store merchandising and

supply-chain efficiencies.

The subordinate nodes are the activities that support the core

capabilities. Scale, for instance, is supported by the way in which

P&G is structured. At P&G, GBUs oversee categories, brands, and

products, providing a holistic, consistent approach to each element

on a worldwide basis. At the same time, MDOs have responsibil-

ity for a continent, region, country, channel, or customer, pay-

ing close attention to its specific needs and demands. The GBUs

and MDOs work together to create a global approach with local

applicability and customization. This matrix allows P&G to drive

scale where it is needed but to stay nimble on the ground. Scale is

also supported by global purchasing and global business services.

Scale also enables, and is supported by, customer teams (i.e., teams

who work solely with specific customers, like Tesco or Walmart),

agency relationships (P&G has the largest ad budget in the world),

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.