SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Performance Analysis
SUMMARY: The text analyzes Procter & Gamble's performance and strategic choices in the 2000-2009 period, highlighting both successes and failures.
KEYWORDS: Procter & Gamble, Business Strategy, Performance Evaluation, Mergers and Acquisitions, New Product Development
---

R&D (percentage of sales) 4.8 2.5

Marketing (percentage of sales) 14 15

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_A.indd 224 11/6/12 8:16 PM

P&G’s Performance 225

The strategies that were developed between 2000 and 2009

generated significant value for the company and shareholders. Yet

no strategy is perfect, and P&G during this decade had its share of

disappointments and failures:

• Coffee. While P&G’s Folgers won the battle against Max-

well House for packaged coffee leadership in grocery and

mass channels, Starbucks, Nespresso, and Keurig all won

in the bigger game, creating strategies that captured more

coffee consumption and significant value creation. Folgers

bid and lost three times for the Starbucks packaged-coffee

contract. It tested and failed in a partnership to create its

own pod-plus-machine coffee system. P&G lost the larger

war. In 2008, the company sold the profitable $1.7 billion

Folgers business to Smuckers.

• Pringles. P&G wasn’t able to realize the full potential of its

$1.5 billion Pringles snacks business and sold it to Kellogg

in 2011.

• Pharmaceuticals. P&G could not obtain regulatory

approval for its Intrinsa testosterone patch for women; nor

could the company form partnerships for, or swap out, its

prescription pharmaceutical business for over-the-counter

brands to create more value. P&G sold its $2.5 billion

pharmaceuticals business in 2009.

• M&A. P&G missed on a number of merger and acquisition

opportunities. It was unable to close a joint venture with

Coca-Cola in the juice beverages and snacks b usiness—a

venture that would have created significant value. Nor

could P&G close an acquisition for a major, global

skin-care brand, although it did acquire DDF (Doctor’s

Dermatological Formula), a small US niche brand.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_A.indd 225 11/6/12 8:16 PM

226 Appendix A

• New brands. P&G was unable to create successful new

brands with Dryel, Fit, Olay Cosmetics, Physique, Tempo,

or Torengos.

Despite the disappointments and failures, P&G made suffi-

ciently good strategic choices to create enough sustainable com-

petitive advantage and to deliver enough consistent value creation

to put the company among the leading performers in its industry,

on the Dow Jones 30 and the Fortune 50. So, it can be tempting to

assume that P&G’s strategies in the first decade of the twenty-first

century are the right strategies for the company (or category, or

brand) moving forward.

But no strategy lasts forever. Strategies need continual

improvement and updating. Competitors have copied P&G’s

strategies—on innovation, on branding, and the like—to an extent

that renders P&G’s resultant strategy less distinctive and decisive.

The consumer packaged goods industry is expanding into emerg-

ing markets in a shared search for growth, making this approach a

more common strategy across the industry and less powerful for

individual players. Approaches that were significant sources of

competitive advantage must be revisited and revised as contexts

change. This is the challenge that faces the next generation of P&G

leaders, just as it challenged leaders in 2000 and will challenge suc-

ceeding generations. Every P&G leader has needed to change the

strategy they inherited in light of the changing context, and P&G’s

current and future leaders will have to do the same.

Historically P&G has risen to meet its challenges over a

175-year-plus history. This legacy of strategic and careful decision-

making should serve P&G well if the management team keeps

searching for unique where-to-play and how-to-win choices that

set the company apart. Winning through distinctive choices is the

always-and-forever job of every strategist.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_A.indd 226 11/6/12 8:16 PM

Appendix B

The Microeconomic Foundations

of Strategy and the Two Ways

to Win

I

t may seem hard to believe that there are only two possible ways

to win—low cost or differentiation. Why only those two, people

often wonder, and what drives this dynamic?

This outcome is driven by the fundamental microeconomic

foundations of strategy. A firm can face only two fundamental

economic conditions, one of which gives rise to low-cost strate-

gies, and another that gives rise to differentiation strategies. In

microeconomics, the two central structures are demand and sup-

ply, and where they cross, the price is determined.

Structure of Demand

Demand is a measure of consumer willingness to purchase a given

product or service. Each individual buyer has his or her own demand

curve: if the price is high, the person will buy less; if it is low, he

or she will buy more. The utility of the product to each i ndividual

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Appendix_B.indd 227 11/6/12 8:16 PM

228 Appendix B

Figure B-1

Construction of industry demand curve

Buyer 1 Buyer 2 Buyer 3 Market

Price + + =

Units Units Units Units

Quantity

will determine how much is purchased at what price, and not

every c onsumer has the same utility for a given product or s ervice.

A hungry person has a higher utility for a turkey sandwich than

does a satiated person. So, each individual buyer has his or her own

demand curve. Nevertheless, you can calculate the i ndustry demand

by a ggregating the individual demand curves together. The indus-

try curve follows the same basic principles as i ndividual demand

curves—the curve slopes downward as higher prices produce lower

demand and lower prices produce higher demand (fi gure B-1).

Structure of Supply

A similar dynamic occurs on the supply side. Each firm is willing

to produce a certain amount of output, given the prevailing price