SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Fragrance Marketing Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses P&G's strategic decision to enter the fine fragrances market, focusing on consumer-centric product development and targeting underserved segments like men's and sporty fragrances.
KEYWORDS: Fragrance marketing, Consumer-centric strategy, Market segmentation, Product innovation, Competitive positioning
---

experience—scent alone can significantly influence consumer

product preferences. And it isn’t just true in hair care, which leads

to the second strategic reason to play in fine fragrances: in many

household and other personal-care businesses, there were signifi-

cant consumer segments that cared deeply about the sensory expe-

rience. P&G could affect consumer purchase intent with the right

fragrance. It soon became clear that fragrance was an important

part of creating delightful consumer experiences and that P&G was

the biggest fragrance user in the world. This little fine-fragrance

business was important well beyond its existing size; it was crucial

to building core capabilities and systems that could differentiate

and create competitive advantage for brands and products across

the entire corporation.

So P&G not only held on to the fine-fragrances business, but

also built it strategically. P&G turned the industry business model

inside out by making a totally different set of strategic where-to-

play and how-to-win choices. Within the fine-fragrances industry,

there was a well-established way to do business: new fragrances

were pushed out of the fashion studios and fragrance houses, down

the fashion runway, and into department stores at Christmas time.

Most new fragrance brands were launched for holiday shopping

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 69 11/6/12 8:18 PM

70 Playing to Win

and began to decline by the next spring. It was a push-and-churn

model. And in most cases, it was secondary to another, primary

business: fashion.

By contrast, P&G started with the consumer, hiring its own

internal team of master perfumers to design fragrances against spe-

cific consumer wants and needs, as well as brand concepts. It part-

nered with the very best fragrance-house perfumers and designers.

Before long, P&G became the preferred innovation partner in the

fine-fragrance space. P&G brands are consumer-centric, concept-

led, and designed to delight consumers. As it dedicated time and

attention to the fine-fragrance business, P&G attracted the best

agency partners and won numerous awards for advertising, mar-

keting, and packaging. It built product portfolios that expanded

and strengthened its consumer user base. It built brands that

became leaders in their segments.

Another norm for the fragrance industry was to compete most

aggressively within the high-end women’s market. Rather than

go head-to-head with the biggest players, the P&G fine-fragrance

team decided to attack along the line of least expectation and least

resistance—in men’s fragrances with Hugo Boss and in younger,

sporty fragrances through a partnership with Lacoste. The com-

petition was focused on women’s classic and fashion fragrances,

where existing sales and profits were. Choosing a different place

to play gave the fine-fragrance team the time and opportunity to

test its strategy and business model, to hone its capabilities, and to

build confidence that it could win.

To win in fine fragrances, the team leveraged all it could from

P&G’s core capabilities. It used P&G brand-building expertise to

assess the strength and value of brands to determine which fash-

ion brands to license and how much to pay for them. It used an

understanding of the discipline of strategy to match its choices

with the choices of the licensors, creating greater value for both.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 70 11/6/12 8:18 PM

Where to Play 71

On the innovation front, world-leading expertise with scents

enabled P&G to create licensed-brand products that were uniquely

appealing to consumers and that could last beyond a season. And

P&G’s scale as the world’s largest purchaser of fragrances enabled

it to buy critical and expensive perfume ingredients at lower cost

than any competitors could.

With all these capabilities applied full force to the business,

P&G built a fragrance house with licenses from Dolce & Gabbana,

Escada, Gucci, and others. In the process, P&G became one of the

largest and most profitable fine-fragrance businesses in the world,

less than two decades after a modest entry into the industry. Stay-

ing in the fine-fragrances business is a choice that seemed coun-

terintuitive at first and required a new way of thinking about just

where to play within it, but the choice has paid huge dividends to

the company overall.

Some things, however, happen by way of serendipity, and

the acquisition of Max Factor is a perfect case in point. Max

Factor was acquired to make the P&G cosmetics business

more global. That really never panned out. Max Factor did

sufficiently poorly in North America that it was discontinued

there. Nor did it provide much of a cosmetics platform out-

side North America. So, the acquisition would likely be called

a failure, considering the intent of the purchase. But as it turns

out, the cosmetics business came along with two businesses—

a small fine-fragrances portfolio and a tiny, super-high-end

Japanese skin-care business called SK-II. That fragrance port-

folio became the seed of a multi-billion-dollar, world-leading

fine-fragrances business. SK-II has expanded into international

markets and has crossed the billion-dollar mark in global sales,

with extremely attractive profitability. In this case, serendipity

smiled on P&G—though it also took smart choices and hard

work to realize the potential of the businesses.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch03.indd 71 11/6/12 8:18 PM

72 Playing to Win

The Heart of Strategy

Where to play is about understanding the possible playing fields

and choosing between them. It is about selecting regions, cus-

tomers, products, channels, and stages of production that fit well

together—that are mutually reinforcing and that marry well with

real consumer needs. Rather than attempt to serve everyone or

simply buy a new playing field or accept your current choices as

inevitable, find a strong set of where-to-play choices. Doing so