SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Business Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of strategic thinking and the multiple ways companies can win in a competitive market, such as through cost leadership or differentiation.
KEYWORDS: strategic thinking, competitive strategy, cost leadership, differentiation, winner-take-all
---

resources to defend themselves. It can use that advantage to win.

Low cost and differentiation seem like simple concepts, but they

are very powerful in terms of keeping companies honest about

their strategies. Many companies like to describe themselves as

winning through operational effectiveness or customer intimacy.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 87 11/6/12 8:19 PM

88 Playing to Win

These sound like good ideas, but if they don’t translate into a genu-

inely lower cost structure or higher prices from customers, they

aren’t really strategies worth having. Across its categories and mar-

kets, P&G pursues branded differentiation strategies that allow it

to command price premiums.

Multiple Ways to Win

In the last decade, the concept of winner-take-all strategies has

gained traction and credibility. It has been used prominently in

connection with Toyota, Walmart, and Dell, but also applied to

Microsoft, Apple, and Google. The notion is that the company in

question finds the killer way to compete and generates such scale

that the company can continue to press its advantage until it takes

the entire market. Yet, long after being declared a winner who took

all, Walmart experienced the rise of Target on one front and D ollar

Stores on another. Dell was eclipsed in market share by a r esurgent

HP and is now threatened by tablets (including iPads) on the high

end and inexpensive imports like Lenovo and Acer on the low end.

And while Toyota is still a contender for leadership in the tough

global automotive industry, it has less than a 15 percent share.

Microsoft is facing stiff competition from tablets and smartphones

that run alternative operating systems. Apple is competing hard with

Android. Google is in a struggle with Facebook. And of course,

Google and Apple now compete with each other. There simply is

no one perfect strategy that will last for all time. There are multiple

ways to win in any almost any industry. That’s why building up stra-

tegic thinking capability within your organization is so vital.

Strategic capability is required for thinking your way out of

difficult positions—like the one that faced the Gain laundry deter-

gent team. At one point, Gain was virtually out of business—with

distribution in just a few southern states. In fact, in the late 1980s,

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 88 11/6/12 8:19 PM

How to Win 89

the Gain brand manager, John Lilly, sent a memo to then-CEO

John Smale recommending that the brand be discontinued. Smale

sent the memo back to Lilly with his full response written across

the top: “John, one more try please.” Smale didn’t dispute the logic

of the memo; he just wanted to give Gain another chance, even if it

was a long shot.

The Gain team (then led by subsequent brand manager Eleni

Senegos) set out to redefine the Gain where-to-play and how-to-

win choices, giving it one more try. Again, the team started with

the consumer. Tide was the overwhelming market leader and

largely owned the all-purpose-cleaning position. But the con-

sumer segmentation data showed that a small but passionate group

of consumers wasn’t well served by Tide or by any other com-

petitive product. This segment cared very much about the sensory

laundry experience—about the scent of the product in the box,

the scent during the washing process, and especially the scent of

clean clothes. Scent was the proof of clean for these consumers. At

the time, there wasn’t a brand positioned for scent seekers, people

who want a dramatic and powerful fragrance experience from the

moment the box is opened through the entire wash process, out of

the dryer, and into the drawer. Gain could fill that niche.

Moving Gain into the scent-seeker position was possible

through P&G’s expertise with fragrance across product catego-

ries. P&G, as we’ve noted, is the largest fragrance company in the

world; not only does it have a robust business in fine fragrances,

but virtually every P&G product has a distinctive fragrance, geared

to create a unique and desirable user experience. The scent-seeker

positioning played to P&G’s ability to create scents that are robust

at all of those points in the process, and to make that clear in every

way. The package was totally changed to be bright, loud, and in-

your-face. It really says that if you like big, bold scents, this is the

product for you. The Gain team plugged away at that positioning

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 89 11/6/12 8:19 PM

90 Playing to Win

on the shelf and in advertising. Gain is now one of P&G’s billion-

dollar brands, even though it is only sold in the United States and

Canada. And the impetus was Smale’s push to think again, to find

a new way to win.

The Febreze strategy offers another example of finding a way

to win. P&G had struggled to reinvigorate its home-care business

and grow the category overall. The company once held a strong

position in surface cleaners, with brands like Comet and Spic ’n

Span, but had made a where-to-play choice to divest those brands

and refocus the home-care team on new consumer and product

segments and new product technologies, building these organically

rather than through acquisition. One of those new products, based

on a proprietary technology, was a spray that could remove odors

from soft surfaces. It wasn’t a totally new product, but really a bet-

ter air freshener—one that could actually remove odors rather than

covering them up.

Unfortunately, the air-freshener segment had two large

incumbent players in Reckitt-Benckiser (maker of Air Wick) and