SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Product Launch Strategy
SUMMARY: The case explores P&G's launch of a new product, Impress, and their experience with the launch of Citrus Hill orange juice, facing fierce competition from established brands.
KEYWORDS: product launch, competitive strategy, consumer testing, market share, brand competition
---

strong garbage bag solved a well-documented frustration for con-

sumers (garbage bags that leak and tear). Nonetheless, Impress was

the starting point.

Test-market consumers loved Impress. It shot to a more than

25 percent share almost immediately, at a 30 percent price premium

over existing wraps. It clearly had unique product technology that

the competition didn’t have and that consumers valued. Now, nor-

mally at P&G, this kind of result leads to cheering, investment in

a new brand, and a full national launch. But the team involved was

cognizant of cautionary tales on this front and was reluctant to

simply dive in with these new plastic technologies.

In the early 1980s, P&G scientists had developed a way to

incorporate the daily recommended intake of calcium in a sin-

gle serving of orange juice. And better yet, the calcium absorbed

readily into the body instead of passing quickly through it, as

was the case with existing calcium supplements. Plus, the calcium

had no adverse impact on the taste of the orange juice. For all the

women and children out there who had to drink milk just to get

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 76 11/6/12 8:19 PM

How to Win 77

their calcium, even if they were lactose intolerant or didn’t actu-

ally enjoy guzzling milk, this was a big win. Like Impress decades

later, the new orange juice with calcium scored very well in con-

sumer testing. It was launched nationally as Citrus Hill in 1983

against two formidable competitors—Minute Maid (a Coca-Cola

division) and the then-independent Tropicana (later acquired by

PepsiCo, Inc., to become yet another front in the Coke-Pepsi

war). The two competitors dominated the branded segment of

the market, with Tropicana staking out leadership in the fresh-

squeezed segment and Minute Maid in the bigger segment of

juice reconstituted from frozen concentrate. Citrus Hill would

compete with both.

Suffice it to say, Minute Maid and Tropicana fought their new

competitor as though their lives depended on it—which, given

P&G’s reputation, was not likely an exaggeration. P&G always

aimed for leading market share in each category—and sometimes,

but rarely, settled for second place. So if P&G was allowed to suc-

ceed, the competitors saw, one of them would probably die and

both could be displaced. By all appearances, Minute Maid and

Tropicana treated the Citrus Hill launch as a battle for survival and

not just another competitive foray.

For P&G, this wasn’t like entering a new category against hun-

dreds of small cloth-diaper producers with the launch of Pampers,

or like mop manufacturers with Swiffer. Citrus Hill was going up

against two gigantic, deep-pocketed, and entrenched competitors.

Sadly for P&G, the orange juice wars turned out to be a humbling

experience. Citrus Hill never made meaningful headway against

the defenses of Minute Maid and Tropicana, and P&G exited the

business after a decade of frustration. The final insult was that the

brand had to be shuttered, rather than sold, because no one could

be found to buy it. The only bright spot was that P&G made a nice

annual profit post-exit, by licensing the calcium technology to its

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 77 11/6/12 8:19 PM

78 Playing to Win

two former competitors. It turned out that both firms were happy

to pay to add an attractive benefit to their existing offerings.

Fast forward two decades: competitively, it was clear that

Impress would be going up directly against The Clorox Compa-

ny’s leading Glad brand and SC Johnson’s Saran Wrap; both were

powerful brands with well-established product lines. Each came

from one of P&G’s biggest competitors in the home and cleaning

products categories. The new trash bags would compete against

leader Glad, plus the Reynolds Group Holdings’ Hefty line. For

P&G, going into business with these two technologies would mean

again entering established markets against two great brand names,

each backed by large, high-quality organizations. And as with

Coke and Tropicana, Clorox, SC Johnson, and Reynolds would

all be well aware of the dangers of giving P&G a foothold. They

would all fight, and fight hard. Then there were the operational

concerns. Launching Impress and the trash-bag technology would

require huge capital investments in manufacturing infrastructure—

expensive, industry-specific technology with which P&G had no

experience.

In other words, as the team explored a possible new where-

to-play choice, it struggled to find a truly compelling way to win

on that playing field. Consumers loved the product. The technol-

ogy was outstanding and proprietary. But technology and product

alone wouldn’t lead to victory—not in the face of tough competi-

tive dynamics and high capital costs. Rather than simply launch the

new technology and attempt to ride out the painful war that would

ensue, we decided to explore entirely different approaches to win-

ning in this space. In the past, if P&G couldn’t use a technology, the

company would license it to another company (as P&G had, for

example, with the calcium additive after the decline of C itrus Hill).

But given the size of the potential prize here, we wondered whether

there wasn’t something other than the extremes of l aunching and

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 78 11/6/12 8:19 PM

How to Win 79

licensing. Jeff Weedman was tasked with finding a third way that

would create more value for consumers and competitive advantage

for P&G.

Weedman explored the possibilities. “We talked to competi-

tors who were in the wrap space,” he recalls. “We went out and

said ‘Do you want this technology?’ We ran an auction.” Multiple

bids came in for the technology, in many different configurations.