SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) Strategy
SUMMARY: P&G adopted a 'best-of-breed' approach to BPO, outsourcing to specialized partners to improve quality and lower costs while managing complexity.
KEYWORDS: business process outsourcing, best-of-breed strategy, partner selection, cost reduction, value creation
---

for the BPO partner, which would secure the biggest outsourc-

ing deal in the industry’s history. But there was no obvious reason

why the deal would help P&G to win. P&G wanted more than

cost-effectiveness and a commitment to a predefined service level

from an outsourcing deal. It wanted flexibility, a partner that could

and would innovate with P&G to create value that didn’t exist in

the current structure.

Passerini soon came up with a new option. Instead of signing

one deal, P&G would outsource various GBS activities to best-of-

breed BPO partners, finding one ideal partner to manage facilities,

another to manage IT infrastructure, and so on. The logic of this

best-of-breed option was that P&G’s needs are highly varied and

that a variety of more specialized partners would be most capa-

ble of meeting the needs. Passerini saw that specialization could

increase the quality and lower the cost of BPO solutions, and

believed that P&G could manage the complexity of multiple rela-

tionships to create more value than it could through one relation-

ship. Plus, there was risk mitigation in having multiple partners,

and they could be benchmarked against one another to promote

better performance. Finally, outsourcing would free up remain-

ing GBS resources to invest in P&G core capabilities and build

sustainable competitive advantage.

The case for a best-of-breed approach was compelling. In 2003,

P&G entered BPO partnerships with Hewlett-Packard in IT sup-

port and applications, IBM Global Services in employee services,

and Jones Lang Lasalle in facilities management. Importantly,

Passerini didn’t simply select the biggest or best-known player in

each BPO space. In fact, as he explains, he chose partners consider-

ing another essential criterion: “For each one of them, there was a

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 41 11/6/12 8:17 PM

42 Playing to Win

common denominator: interdependency. It played out in different

ways. For HP, they were a distant fourth player in the industry.

With P&G, they gained instantaneous visibility and credibility. As

important as they are to us, because all of our systems operate on

the HP platform now, we are equally important to them [as their

lead customer]. For each one of the [best-in-breed partners], the

benefit was different, but each one of them became interdependent

with P&G.”5 Passerini had crafted a richer way of thinking about

the BPO relationship, one that asked, under what conditions can

we help each other win?

Passerini’s approach has been a success. The three origi-

nal partnerships have performed well and have led to a handful

of deeper partnerships for different services. The cost of services

has fallen. Meanwhile, quality has risen and service levels have

improved. Satisfaction rates for the six thousand employees who

transferred to the BPO partners went up too; they are now a core

part of their new organizations rather than a noncore part of P&G.

And the approach has freed up P&G’s GBS team members to

focus on innovating and building IT systems that support P&G

strategic choices and capabilities, like designing state-of-the-art

virtual shopping experiences for consumer insights work and a

desktop-based “cockpit” that provides P&G leaders with at-a-

glance decision-making tools. GBS has been able to outsource the

utilities element of P&G’s shared services and focus internally on

areas where it can build strategic advantage. P&G’s approach to

this set of transactions has become a model for other organizations,

as multiple rather than single-source BPOs are becoming a pre-

ferred industry norm.

If the aspiration for GBS was to come to a good-enough solu-

tion, then the best-of-breed option would never have been cre-

ated. But the aspiration was considerably higher. The questions

asked were these: What choice would help P&G win? And how

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch02.indd 42 11/6/12 8:17 PM

What Is Winning 43

could that choice create sustainable competitive advantage? These

questions continue to be asked. Now head of a more agile GBS

organization, Passerini thinks about providing service to P&G

in terms of creating a winning value equation. “I fear becoming a

commodity,” he says. “[In IT] you need to be distinctive to avoid

commoditization. We have been on a quest to deliver unique value

to P&G. Whatever is distinctive and unique, we focus on; whatever

is commodity, because there is not competitive advantage in doing

it inside, we outsource.”

The desire to win spurs a helpfully competitive mind-set, a

desire to do better whenever possible. For this reason, GBS com-

petes for its internal customers. Passerini explains: “We don’t man-

date new services; we offer them [to businesses and functions] at

a cost. If the business units like them, they will buy them. If they

don’t like them, they will pass.” This open market provides impor-

tant feedback and keeps GBS thinking about how to win with its

internal customers and create new value. So much so that Passerini

famously stood at a global leadership team meeting and promised:

“Give me anything I can turn into a service, and I’ll save you sev-

enteen cents on the dollar.” It was a provocative offer, and one that

set the tone for his team. Good enough wasn’t an option. Provid-

ing services wasn’t the strategy. Providing better services at higher

quality and lower costs—while serving as an innovation engine for

the company—was the strategy. It was a strategy aimed at winning.

With Those Who Matter Most

To set aspirations properly, it is important to understand who

you are winning with and against. It is therefore important to be

thoughtful about the business you’re in, your customers, and your

competitors. We asked P&G’s businesses to focus on winning with

those who matter most and against the very best. We wanted them