SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning
SUMMARY: The text discusses how P&G made strategic choices for its business based on where to play and how to win, reinforcing the two choices to create a distinctive combination.
KEYWORDS: strategic choices, where to play, how to win, reinforce choices, distinctive combination
---

make smarter day-to-day decisions on the basis of an overriding

strategy and to build the strongest consumer-insights capability in

the industry.

The best-of-breed outsourcing strategy for P&G’s GBS dem-

onstrates the power of thinking through where to play and how

to win for an internal function. The best-of-breed approach was a

thoughtful choice—for each service, the company selected the pro-

vider that could best create joint value with P&G, while freeing up

the core GBS team to focus on building decisive P&G capabilities.

This foundational how-to-win choice has led the team to continue

to focus on how to win with its internal customers—driving costs

of the system, outsourcing noncore activities, and building systems

to support P&G’s company, business-unit, and functional strate-

gic choices.

Reinforcing Choices

Where-to-play and how-to-win choices do not function inde-

pendently; a strong where-to-play choice is only valuable if it is

supported by a robust and actionable how-to-win choice. The

two choices should reinforce one another to create a distinctive

combination. Think of Olay, in which the new where-to-play

(thirty-five- to forty-nine-year-old women interested in age-

defying skin-care products) was perfectly matched with the new

how-to-win (in the high-end masstige segment with mass-retail

partners and products that fight the seven signs of aging). With

Bounty, narrowing where to play to North America enabled the

team to decide how to win around North American consumers’

different needs. In the Glad joint venture, some where-to-play

choices (like creating a new P&G wraps and trash bags category)

would have made it difficult to win with consumers, given the

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 93 11/6/12 8:19 PM

94 Playing to Win

nature of competition in the category and the likely response of

competitors. Instead, the company found a how-to-win choice,

a joint venture with a competitor, and the venture created new

value for consumers and for both P&G and Clorox. The where

and how were considered together, and a very different approach

was created.

The P&G diaper business in emerging markets provides

another example. By 2000, the company was making good progress

on expanding into emerging markets across a number of categories.

The baby-care business had a global strategy that included regain-

ing brand clarity in North America, reasserting market leadership

in Europe, and extending beyond diapers into other kinds of baby-

care products. Launching into emerging markets was one part

of this larger strategy. The decision was made to start with Asia,

because of its attractive demographics. But what kind of a how-to-

win choice would work well with that where-to-play choice? How

could P&G not only enter the Asian baby-care market, but also

win there? And how would the emerging-market strategy fit into

the global baby-care strategy?

It would be a challenge. The Pampers diapers that were sold

globally were simply too expensive to be sold in emerging mar-

kets. Traditionally, consumer goods companies have taken one of

two approaches in such a situation. One is the trickle-down tech-

nology approach, basically taking a once cutting-edge but now

largely obsolete product from the developed world and selling it

in emerging markets. The other common approach is to take the

existing premium product and strip out as many costs as pos-

sible. Essentially, explains Deb Henretta, then group president

for Asia and global specialty (now group president of global skin

care, beauty, and personal care), “we would take a diaper that at

the time in North America or Western Europe was costing about

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 94 11/6/12 8:19 PM

How to Win 95

$0.24 a diaper and whittle it down, slicing the salami thinner and

thinner and thinner to get to something that was in the $0.08 to

$0.10 range.”5 Usually, the resulting product was deficient, a pale

imitation that met no one’s needs. Instead of trying either of these

routes, Henretta and her team took a different approach: “Let’s

go to a white sheet of paper,” she told her team, “keeping the con-

sumer in mind. Let’s find out what those consumers actually need

and build that diaper. You only build what they need; you don’t

build all the bells and whistles that only consumers in developed

markets expect.”

Henretta set specific parameters for success: “We decided

we wanted a baby diaper to be the cost of an egg. At that price,

it would be affordable for consumers. We dovetailed that with a

strategic positioning that baby diapers help control disease by pro-

viding better health and hygiene for the child, plus provide a better

night’s sleep for the baby. All that came together as the proposi-

tion.”

The new, blank-sheet-of-paper approach required a differ-

ent way of thinking about innovation capability. Traditionally,

in diapers and elsewhere, the emphasis had been on cutting-edge

technology. Here, the R&D teams had a different challenge—to

address the specific, differentiated needs of consumers in emerging

markets within specific cost parameters. It was a different way of

thinking about and using the core innovation capability—but one

on which the R&D teams were able to deliver. The result was mar-

ket leadership in China in a rapidly growing category.

Summing Up

In choosing where to play, you must consider a series of important

dimensions, like geographies, products, consumer needs, and so

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 95 11/6/12 8:19 PM

96 Playing to Win

on, to find a smart playing field. How-to-win choices determine

what you will do on that playing field. Because contexts, like com-

petitive dynamics and company capabilities, differ greatly, there

is no single, simple taxonomy of how-to-win choices. At a high