SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: This text discusses the strategic choice cascade, a framework for crafting winning strategies for businesses, organizations, and industries.
KEYWORDS: strategic choice cascade, strategy framework, business strategy, winning strategy, strategic thinking
---

Introduction.indd 5 11/6/12 8:12 PM

6 Playing to Win

The five choices make up the strategic choice cascade, the founda-

tion of our strategy work and the core of this book.

To really think through strategy, though, the cascade isn’t

quite enough. In chapter 7, we will provide another tool—the

strategy logic flow, a framework designed to helpfully direct

your thinking to the key analyses that inform your five strategy

choices. Then, in chapter 8, we provide a specific methodology for

making sense of conflicting strategic options, a process—called

reverse e ngineering—for making strategic choices with others.

Taken together, the five choices, one framework, and one process

provide a playbook for crafting strategy in any organization.

Our intent is to provide you with a do-it-yourself guide to

strategy. We offer you the concepts, process, and practical tools

you need to create and develop a winning strategy for your busi-

ness, function, or organization—a strategy that serves your cus-

tomers better and enables you to compete more successfully and

to win.

The world needs more business leaders who understand strat-

egy and are capable of leading the strategy process for their com-

panies. It needs strategic capabilities at all organizational levels in

industries of all kinds, in government, in health care, in education,

and in the social sector. Strategy needn’t be mysterious. Concep-

tually, it is simple and straightforward. It requires clear and hard

thinking, real creativity, courage, and personal leadership. But it

can be done.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Introduction.indd 6 11/6/12 8:12 PM

Chapter One

Strategy Is Choice

B

y the late 1990s it became clear that P&G really needed to win

in skin care. Skin care (including soaps, cleansers, moisturiz-

ers, lotions, and other treatments) constitutes about a quarter of

the total beauty industry and has the potential to be highly profit-

able. When done well, it can engender intense consumer loyalty

compared with other beauty categories like hair care, cosmetics,

and fragrances.1 Plus, there’s significant knowledge and skill trans-

fer from skin care to these other categories in terms of technol-

ogy and consumer insights. To be a credible player in the beauty

business, P&G needed leading hair-care and skin-care brands. Skin

care was the weak link. In particular, Oil of Olay was struggling.

It wasn’t P&G’s only skin-care brand, but it was by far the largest

and best known.

Unfortunately, the brand had baggage. Oil of Olay was seen

as old-fashioned and no longer relevant. It had come to be deri-

sively called “Oil of Old Lady,” a not entirely unfair character-

ization, as its customer base was growing older every year. More

and more, when selecting a skin-care regimen, women were pass-

ing over Oil of Olay in favor of brands with more to offer. Oil of

Olay’s core product (pink cream in a simple plastic bottle), sold

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 7 11/6/12 8:13 PM

8 Playing to Win

mainly through drugstores at the bargain-basement price of $3.99,

just wasn’t competitive against an ever-growing range of skin-care

alternatives. By the late 1990s, Oil of Olay sales were clocking in

below $800 million a year, nowhere close to the industry leaders in

the $50 billion skin-care category.

All this presented a difficult strategic choice and generated a

number of possible responses. P&G could maintain status quo on

Oil of Olay and launch a more relevant alternative under a differ-

ent brand name to compete for a new generation of consumers. But

building a skin-care brand from scratch to market leadership could

take years, even decades. P&G could go for an immediate fix, buy-

ing an established skin-care leader (think Estée Lauder’s Clinique

or Beiersdorf’s Nivea brand) to more credibly compete in the cat-

egory. But an acquisition would be both expensive and speculative.

Plus, over the previous decade, P&G had actively pursued sev-

eral opportunities for leading brands with no success. P&G could

attempt to extend one of its leading beauty brands, like Cover Girl,

into the skin-care category. This too would be highly speculative.

How easily could even a leading cosmetics brand gain traction in

skin care? Finally, P&G could attempt to revive a fading but still

valuable Oil of Olay to compete in a new segment. This meant

finding a way to reinvent the brand in the minds of consumers,

a big investment with no guarantee of success. But P&G believed

that the Oil of Olay brand had potential, especially with the right

push behind it.

The good news was that there was still widespread consumer

awareness of Oil of Olay, and as every good marketer knows,

awareness precedes trial. Michael Kuremsky, Oil of Olay’s North

American brand manager at the time, summed up the state of

affairs: “There was still a lot of promise. [But] there was really

no plan.”2 The team wanted to turn the promise into a plan. The

plan was to remake Oil of Olay—its brand, its business model, its

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch01.indd 8 11/6/12 8:13 PM

Strategy Is Choice 9

package and product, its value proposition, and even its name. Out

went “Oil of,” and the brand was rechristened “Olay.”3

Rethinking Olay

Together with Susan Arnold, then president of global beauty, we

focused on the mid- and long-term strategy for beauty, working

to establish P&G as a credible contender in the sector. As P&G

learned the beauty game, it could win across the categories. So,

P&G invested in the SK-II brand (a super-premium Japanese skin-

care line acquired when P&G bought Max Factor in 1991), Cover

Girl (P&G’s leading cosmetics brand), Pantene (its biggest sham-