SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Business Planning
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of an activity system that supports a company's strategic choices, and the need to assess its feasibility, distinctiveness, and defensibility.
KEYWORDS: activity system, strategic choices, competitive advantage, feasibility, distinctiveness, defensibility
---

who work solely with specific customers, like Tesco or Walmart),

agency relationships (P&G has the largest ad budget in the world),

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 117 11/7/12 1:18 AM

118 Playing to Win

and consumer- and customer-driven measurement systems (quali-

tative and quantitative approaches to understanding and reporting

performance). Through the sheer size and volume of activity, P&G

is able to afford more resources than competitors in each of these

areas—and to get better performance.

An activity system is of no value unless it supports a particular

where-to-play and how-to-win choice. Again, the various choices

along the cascade must be considered iteratively. You need to go

back and forth between the choices. You can think through a ten-

tative where-to-play and how-to-win choice. Then you can ask,

what activities system would effectively underpin this choice?

Once you lay out such a system map, you can ask a sequential set

of questions about feasibility, distinctiveness, and defensibility.

In addressing feasibility, ask several questions: is this a realis-

tic activity system to build? How much of it is currently in place,

and how much would you have to create? For the capabilities you

would need to build, is it affordable to do so? If upon reflection,

you find that the activity system isn’t feasible, then you need to

reconsider where to play and how to win.

When you have a feasible activity system, you can ask more

questions: is it distinctive? Is it similar to or different from com-

petitors’ systems? This is an important point. Imagine that a com-

petitor has a different where-to-play and how-to-win choice, but

a very similar set of capabilities and supporting activities. In such

a situation, the competitor could shift to your potentially superior

where-to-play and how-to-win choices and begin to cut in to your

competitive advantage. If the activity system isn’t distinctive, the

where and the how and the map must be revisited until such time

as a distinctive combination emerges. As Porter notes, not all of

the elements need to be unique or impossible to replicate. It is the

combination of capabilities, the activity system in its entirety, that

must be inimitable.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 118 11/7/12 1:18 AM

Play to Your Strengths 119

When it has a feasible and distinctive activity system, you can

ask, is the system defensible against competitive action? If the sys-

tem can be readily replicated or overcome, then the overall strat-

egy is not defensible and won’t provide meaningful competitive

advantage. In that case, you need to revisit your where-to-play and

how-to-win choices to find a set of strategic choices and an activity

system that are difficult to replicate and hard to defend against.

The goal, then, is an integrated and mutually reinforcing set

of capabilities that underpin the where-to-play and how-to-win

choices and that are feasible, distinctive, and defensible. Measur-

ing the P&G activity system against these criteria, it fairs well.

Time has demonstrated that it was feasible to build: some capabili-

ties, such as Connect + Develop (P&G’s version of open innova-

tion), design, globally distributed R&D, and the global business

services organization, had to be built, so P&G invested in them.

The activity system as a whole is distinctive. While competitors

have some of the capabilities, none has the entire combination that

P&G has. L’Oréal has powerful brands and innovative design, but

a fraction of P&G’s scale. Unilever has similar scale but doesn’t

have P&G’s global go-to-market capability, because of Unile-

ver’s country-based rather than global organizational structure.

No competitor invests as much in consumer understanding or

product innovation—and has introduced so many new products

across so many categories. Finally, the activity system has been

defensible: no competitor has been able to replicate the entire sys-

tem map or outperform against the full set of capabilities. Note,

however, that this does not mean P&G has an obviously superior

strategy. As we have noted before, there are many ways to play in

any industry. There are numerous where-to-play and how-to-win

choices, backed by core capabilities, in any field of competition.

In the consumer-goods industry, P&G’s strategy is but one of the

successful ones.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 119 11/7/12 1:18 AM

120 Playing to Win

Capabilities Throughout the Organization

If you are in a business that has one product line or brand, you may

well have a single set of core capabilities and one activity system

for the whole company. In a corporation, though, with different

brands, categories, and markets, each different business line makes

its own where-to-play and how-to-win choices within the context

of organizational choices. Logically, then, each unit must have an

activity system that supports its choices, a system that is informed

by the corporate-level map. In other words, layers of capabilities

occur throughout the organization, and the activity systems look

at least a little different in different parts of the company.

At P&G, the activity system for baby care differs from the

systems for laundry or skin care. Hospital sampling programs and

relationships with nurses and health systems are important sup-

porting activities to a baby-care choice to capture new moms early.

There is no direct parallel to that activity in skin care or laundry.

In the same way, the laundry team doesn’t need to develop rela-

tionships with fashion editors and dermatologists (for independent

credentialing and endorsements) as the skin-care team does. And

the activity systems for the global business services organization

or the European MDO would look different from the brand and

category systems.

However, if there is nothing in common between these differ-