SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Business Decision-Making
SUMMARY: The text explores how a CEO made a bad acquisition decision despite sound advice, leading to the downfall of the parent company, and the author's realization that what matters most is understanding the perspectives of those who will implement the decision.
KEYWORDS: strategic decision-making, acquisitions, organizational dynamics, change management, business performance
---

note was succinct and to the point: “Your answer should be ‘no’

at any price. If you buy this, you will destroy the company and

your career. Please don’t do it. Please just say no.”

He said yes. He bought the company at $20 million. At that

price, the CEO said, a number one market share player with a

strong branded position was a steal, an opportunity that simply

couldn’t be passed up.

He should have passed. The acquired company went almost

immediately into the red. Losses accelerated. Because of prohib-

itive shutdown costs, the acquired business became unsalable

at any price. The parent company went into a performance swoon

and had to start selling off well-performing divisions to fund the

losses at the acquired company. In 1994, the CEO was fired. In

1999, the once strong and independent parent company was

folded into a much bigger company. Eventually, the still-h orribly

performing division was sold to another industry player.

Initially, I blamed the CEO for his bad judgment. The case was

clear and he had ignored sound advice. I went on to other cli-

ents and continued to practice the way I had always practiced.

But now I was bothered by a nagging question. Why had this

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 203 11/6/12 8:22 PM

204 Playing to Win

intelligent and to-then successful CEO acted as he had? What

led him to ignore the advice he had paid me for? I didn’t have a

good answer, and the question kept rolling around in my head.

Then, in 1994, I was consulting to a mining company that was

facing a decision to invest in an aging mine or close it down. We

held a meeting with a group of about ten executives, split evenly

between those from the mine and those from the head office.

There were plenty of options on the table and many opinions

about the options. Suddenly, I had a flashback to the acquisition

experience; in that moment, I realized that while I had a strong

view as to which of the options was best, it actually didn’t mat-

ter a whit what I thought. I now understood that what mattered

was what the rest of the folks around the table thought; they

were the ones who were going to have to take action one way

or the other, not me. Unfortunately, they were all over the map.

The mine managers and head-office managers were on opposite

pages; head office favored the shutdown option, and mine man-

agement favored a variety of investment options.

At an impasse, an idea popped into my head. Rather than

have them talk about what they thought was true about the vari-

ous options, I would ask them to specify what would have to be

true for the option on the table to be a fantastic choice. The

result was magical. Clashing views turned into collaboration to

really understand the logic of the options. Rather than having

people attempt to convince others of the merits of options, the

options themselves did the convincing (or failed to do so). In

this moment, the best role of the consultant became clear to

me: don’t attempt to convince clients which choice is best; run a

process that enables them to convince themselves.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 204 11/6/12 8:22 PM

Shorten Your Odds 205

Around the same time, I was consulting to an R&D-intensive

industrial products company on its strategy. As part of my

work there, company leaders asked me to help them with their

advanced research portfolio. They were experiencing low suc-

cess rates out of the portfolio, and problematically, projects

would incur lots of expenses before being killed relatively close

to the point of commercialization when it became clear that the

business case didn’t make sense. They asked for help in think-

ing about how to improve the process.

Excited about my discovery, I trotted out my new favorite

question: what would have to be true? Early on in the life of

a research project, we would ask, what would have to be true

about each box of the logic flow diagram for this project to

produce a commercial success? This marked the first time

that I used the logic flow in this fashion. Again, the impact

was immediate and positive. Some projects were canceled

because once conditions were laid out, it was clear to the

research team that the project had no hope of commercializa-

tion: all those conditions simply couldn’t be true. For other

projects, the order of activities changed dramatically. The

“what would have to be true?” question revealed that certain

issues had to be addressed right away, rather than after lots

of additional spending had been done on less important

q uestions.

From there, I used the most important question in strategy—

what would have to be true?—to build an entirely new method-

ology for thinking through choices. It became the heart of my

consulting practice and is the only strategy process I use to

this day.

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch08.indd 205 11/6/12 8:22 PM

206 Playing to Win

the poweR of an outsiDe stRategy p aRtneR

A.G. Lafley

CEO is an extraordinarily lonely job when done well. The CEO is

the chief external officer with primary responsibility for translat-

ing the meaningful outside into winning strategies for the busi-

ness and the organization. This means choosing what business

or businesses to be in and which to exit, to shut down, or not

to enter. This means balancing the delivery of an acceptable