SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Partnership Strategy
SUMMARY: P&G explores a partnership with competitor Clorox to leverage its proprietary technology and expertise in the wraps and bags category.
KEYWORDS: business partnership, technology licensing, product innovation, market competition, Clorox acquisition
---

for P&G.

Weedman explored the possibilities. “We talked to competi-

tors who were in the wrap space,” he recalls. “We went out and

said ‘Do you want this technology?’ We ran an auction.” Multiple

bids came in for the technology, in many different configurations.

One of the most intriguing was from Clorox. Clorox had acquired

the Glad brand of wraps and trash bags in 1999, when it purchased

First Brands, outbidding P&G for the property at the time. As

Larry Peiros, then group vice president at The Clorox Company

(now executive vice president and chief operating officer) explains,

“Glad was a challenging acquisition from the very beginning. Our

products were pretty much undifferentiated, and raw material costs

were escalating. Our biggest Glad business, trash bags, was threat-

ened by an aggressive competitor in Hefty and parity-performing

store brands. Our food-storage Glad products, Glad Cling Wrap

and GladWare, were under pressure from Ziploc’s leading food-

storage business. The business was struggling, and it was clear we

needed very major product development and capital investment

to be successful over the long term.”3 But Clorox didn’t have the

kind of proprietary R&D expertise with materials and plastics that

P&G did. Nor did it have P&G’s massive scale. Plus, the Clorox

team understood the implications if the P&G technology went to

a rival company. So, the team came forward with an unusual pitch

for a larger partnership.

“There were a lot of reasons why we wanted a deeper relation-

ship than just licensing,” Peiros recalls. “Procter is a technology

machine. They compete in many multi-billion-dollar categories in

which they are developing new innovations. Some of those innova-

tions would be applicable to bags and wraps. If P&G was willing

to give us access to both existing and future technology for our

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 79 11/6/12 8:19 PM

80 Playing to Win

category, that could be a huge benefit to us. It was kind of a weird

conversation initially. The idea of working with a direct compet-

itor was certainly new for Clorox. The form and structures of a

joint venture were totally undefined.” It would mean a close part-

nership in one category, while maintaining intense competition

with one another in other categories.

To Weedman, it meant finding a powerful new how-to-win

choice. It meant innovation in its broadest sense. There were good

licensing bids from several other companies. But going into busi-

ness with Clorox would send an important signal e xternally—and

internally—about how P&G would do business in the future.

“When most people talk innovation, they think molecules,”

Weedman says. “This would be innovation of the business model—

innovation across the whole spectrum.”

With strong encouragement from the top, Weedman created a

joint venture with Clorox, one in which Clorox, rather than P&G,

was in control. In exchange for both of the P&G technologies and

the assignment of twenty P&G personnel (mainly R&D scientists

and technologists) to the joint venture, P&G received 10 percent of

the overall Glad business, with an option to acquire another 10 per-

cent on preset terms. But Clorox would run the business—manu-

facturing, distribution, sales, advertising, and so forth. With this

deal, P&G relinquished control in a way it had never done before.

The venture was launched in January 2003, and by December

2004, P&G happily exercised the option of purchasing an addi-

tional 10 percent of the business. At the time of the joint-venture

agreement, Glad was a $400 million business; within five years, it

grew to more than $1 billion, boosted by the strength of Press’n

Seal (the rebranded Impress) and especially ForceFlex. As impor-

tant as the financial contributions of the deal were to P&G, the

fundamental approach was even more important. It sent a power-

ful signal about the P&G of the future. This wasn’t the old Procter

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch04.indd 80 11/6/12 8:19 PM

How to Win 81

that had to have control and had to dominate. This collaboration

with a competitor—building a successful leading business in a non-

competitive space—was huge. And the approach has led to a num-

ber of similar joint development initiatives, like Tide Dry Cleaners

franchises, in which P&G partners in unexpected ways.

With the development of these new film-wrap technologies,

P&G was faced with a series of choices about where to play and

how to win. The challenge was to find a way to win, rather than

just compete, with these new technologies. Finding the answer

meant taking a new and creative approach to what winning could

mean and how P&G could win in a different way. The how-to-

win choice had to be made thoughtfully with an understanding of

the full playing field. The result was a first-of-its-kind partnership

between P&G and Clorox—a partnership that made both compa-

nies stronger and created a billion-dollar, category-leading brand.

Where to play is half of the one-two punch at the heart of strat-

egy. The second is how to win. Winning means providing a better

consumer and customer value equation than your competitors do,

and providing it on a sustainable basis. As Mike Porter first articu-

lated more than three decades ago, there are just two generic ways of

doing so: cost leadership and differentiation (for more on the micro-

economic foundations of these two strategies, see appendix B).

Low-Cost Strategies

In cost leadership, as the name suggests, profit is driven by having a

lower cost structure than competitors do. Imagine that companies

A, B, and C all produce widgets for which customers will gladly

pay $100. The products are comparable, so if one company charges

more for its product than the others do, most customers will elect