SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Capabilities and Organizational Alignment
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of shared core capabilities across different business units and the organization as a whole to create synergies and competitive advantage.
KEYWORDS: core capabilities, organizational alignment, portfolio strategy, reinforcing rods, competitive advantage
---

tionships with fashion editors and dermatologists (for independent

credentialing and endorsements) as the skin-care team does. And

the activity systems for the global business services organization

or the European MDO would look different from the brand and

category systems.

However, if there is nothing in common between these differ-

ent activity systems, it is a sign that the organization has businesses

that may fit poorly in the same portfolio. For a corporation to have

a chance of delivering greater value together than the units could

individually, there must be some core activities in common—both

among businesses in the portfolio and between those businesses

and the company overall. It is essential that all of the systems have

at least some capabilities and activities that line up with the core

capabilities of the organization. These shared capabilities—the

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 120 11/7/12 1:18 AM

Play to Your Strengths 121

ones that run through multiple divisions or units and the organi-

zation overall—create reinforcing rods that link different parts of

the organization together, just as steel reinforcing rods run from

floor to floor in a concrete building to keep it standing (figure 5-2).

These reinforcing rods help drive strategy forward at all levels.

Again, although the baby-care, laundry, skin-care, GBS, and

European MDO activity systems will be distinct from one another

and from the P&G system in some respects, they will each have

some crucial reinforcing rods that tie their capabilities together.

For instance, all five of P&G’s company-level core capabilities

are important for the baby-care business. Scale and innovation

are critical to GBS, which oversees IT and other central services.

Go-to-market capabilities are obviously critical to the European

MDO, but so too are consumer understanding and scale. As dis-

cussed, P&G’s consumer insights, innovation, and scale were

important for Gillette. The links between the systems are crucial

FIGURE 5-2

Reinforcing rods

Distinctive activity systems

P&G

Category A

e.g., innovation

Brand B

e.g., scale

e.g., consumer

is boss

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 121 11/7/12 1:18 AM

122 Playing to Win

to create brand, category, sector, function, and overall company

competitive advantage—to make the system stronger than the sum

of its parts.

Multilevel Strategy

Given that core capabilities exist at different levels of the organiza-

tion, it is hard to know just where to start thinking about them—

with corporate strategy or with business strategy. Ultimately, there

is no perfect place to start and the process isn’t linear—you need to

go back and forth between the levels, just as you need to loop back

and forth between the five questions in the strategic choice cas-

cade. However, you can use three principles to help the company

put together integrated activity systems at multiple organizational

levels.

1. Start at the Indivisible Level

When building an activity system, you will know that you are in

the right spot if the following conditions hold true: (1) the activ-

ity system would look more or less the same down one level, but

(2) it looks meaningfully different up one organizational level. In

the case of Head & Shoulders, for instance, one level down from

brand would be individual product (Head & Shoulders Classic

Clean, Head & Shoulders Extra Volume, and so on). If you were

to build the activity system for each of these products and com-

pare it with the brand system, there would be little difference. Each

product represents a small variation in formulation. But going up

a level from brand to the hair-care category, the activity systems

would be quite different. At the hair-care category level, the port-

folio includes products such as Nice ’n Easy hair colorants, Herbal

Essences hair gels, and so on. The Head & Shoulders map is geared

to produce advantage via innovation in therapeutic ingredients,

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch05.indd 122 11/7/12 1:18 AM

Play to Your Strengths 123

while the Nice ’n Easy map prominently features implements,

dispensers, and color research. The hair-care category activity

system would need to be a more general system that captures the

essence of those below it and connects to those above.

The ground-level maps (e.g., Head & Shoulders and Nice ’n

Easy) can be thought of as indivisible activity systems: below this

level, the activity system doesn’t divide into distinct maps, while

above this level, multiple distinct maps are aggregated together

into a unique system. This indivisible level will not be the same

in every organization (i.e., the indivisible activity system is not

always found at the brand level). Every company has to find the

level of direct competition and begin articulating capabilities there.

Build activity systems starting at the ground level—the point of

indivisible activity systems—and work your way up from there.

Why? The capabilities at the indivisible level drive the ones above.

2. Add Competitive Advantage to the Level Below

All levels above the indivisible activity system are aggregations that

must add net competitive advantage in some way. Since aggrega-

tion inevitably creates costs (financial and administrative) that

wouldn’t exist if the indivisible activity systems existed as separate

businesses, the strategy at all levels of aggregation must contribute

a countervailing benefit to those below, somehow improving their

competitiveness.

A level can contribute a net benefit in two ways—through

two kinds of reinforcing rods. First, it can provide the benefit

of a shared activity. For example, the hair-care category can have

a research laboratory that does fundamental research on clean-

ing, conditioning, and styling, which, because of its massive

scale across all the hair brands, performs at a fraction of the cost