SOURCE: Playing to Win_FULL Ebook.PDF
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning
SUMMARY: The text discusses Procter & Gamble's efforts to reinvent its strategic planning process, shifting from a one-way presentation to a collaborative approach with the CEO.
KEYWORDS: strategic planning, Procter & Gamble, CEO collaboration, management system, strategic choices
---

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 129 11/6/12 8:20 PM

130 Playing to Win

as brand manager: “There were twenty-five people around the

room. There was my vice president, the president of the ad agency,

and then what I’d call a whole lot of rail birds—people lined up on

each side.” In front of that huge audience, the brand manager was

called to perform. “You’d come in with a notebook with fifty issue

sheets. The idea was, whatever was asked, you had to answer. You

go to tab twenty-five; you go to tab forty.”

Tales abounded of a particular CEO who seemed to revel in

the chance to put people on the spot with tough, detailed questions.

“I can remember the stories,” Taylor recalls. “Somebody told me,

‘Your objective in this meeting is just to not get humiliated. Get out

of it alive.’ Then, when I became more senior, I had a president tell

me, ‘Your job in that meeting is to talk anything but strategy. Bring

innovation projects, bring [advertising] copy, bring m aterial to enter-

tain him. You don’t want him messing around with your s trategy. Talk

anything but strategy.” This get-in-and-get-out approach became

deeply embedded in the P&G culture.

We knew we had to reinvent the process entirely, to actually

focus on strategy rather than on budget negotiations or product

and marketing execution. We wanted to foster a team-like approach

that would allow the CEO to collaborate with the p residents and to

help advance their thinking in real time. We wanted to create useful

dialogue in place of a one-way, bulletproof presentation. Instead

of burying the issues, we wanted to talk about them openly. We

wanted a new management system for the creation and review of

the five strategic choices.

Longtime chief financial officer Clayt Daley, equally tired of

all the sell-and-defend reviews, agreed that there must be a better

way. He recalls, “Management teams, because the [P&G] culture is

so strong, were trained for so many years to come in and sell. We

wanted to talk about strategic options and alternatives and what

things we could plug in or take out of the strategy.” This different

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 130 11/6/12 8:20 PM

Manage What Matters 131

approach came not from a desire to micromanage strategy from

the top but from an understanding of the different perspectives the

senior team and the business presidents could bring. We believed

that the senior leadership team could leverage both its consider-

able expertise across businesses, functions, and geographies and its

unique, enterprise-wide perspective to improve and contextualize

a smart strategy developed by leaders with deep knowledge of a

specific business. This combination of breadth and depth could be

incredibly powerful.

Unfortunately, the management teams had been trained over

decades to see strategy reviews as anything but an opportunity to

share ideas. Traditionally, it had been their job to build an unim-

peachable plan and to defend it to the death. It was important to

reframe the task or, as Daley puts it, “to create a framework of

what a strategy discussion is and isn’t. A strategy discussion is not

an idea review. A strategy discussion is not a budget or a forecast

review. A strategy discussion is how we are going to accomplish

our growth objectives in the next three to five years. We really

wanted to engage in a discussion.”

So we worked up a new process to begin in the fall of 2001. It

was a radical change for all involved. Previously, a president would

come into a review meeting with a lengthy PowerPoint presenta-

tion, which captured all the material that he or she wanted to share.

The president would go through the deck, slide by slide, reveal-

ing the material to the mass audience in real time. We changed the

meeting completely. It went from a formal presentation (by the

business to management) to a dialogue focused on a very few criti-

cal strategic issues identified in advance.

Whatever strategic issues the president wanted to discuss were

delivered in writing in advance of the strategy review meeting. The

senior team would review the submission and select the issues it

wished to discuss (or propose alternative points of d iscussion).

This document is authorized for use only by Brett Blundy (bb@bbretailcapital.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Ch06.indd 131 11/6/12 8:20 PM

132 Playing to Win

A one-paragraph note (and never more than a one-page letter)

would go back to the president, highlighting those issues for dis-

cussion. Some meetings focused on a single strategic question,

and the team rarely tried to wrestle with more than three ques-

tions in a single meeting. The culture-busting kickers were three-

fold. First, there would be no presentation, only a discussion of

the strategic issues agreed on in advance. Second, we limited the

number of folks in the room, down from twenty-five to just four

or five from the business plus the CEO and the corporate leaders

who would bring specific experience or knowledge on the strategy

issue. Third, participants would not be allowed to bring more than

three new pages of material to the meeting to share—we did not

want the participants to race off and create yet another PowerPoint

deck with answers to the questions raised in the letter. We genu-

inely wanted to have a conversation about the key strategic issues

in the business.

The questions tended to press on a few key points: was P&G

winning in this category? Was the business team sure? How did

they really know? What were the opportunities related to unmet

consumer needs? What were the most promising innovations and

technologies? What were the threats to category or country or

channel structural attractiveness? What core capabilities was the