SOURCE: PRODUCT MANAGEMENT ACTIONS.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Product Management Strategy
SUMMARY: A detailed plan for managing product inventory, supplier relationships, and range planning during an uncertain business period.
KEYWORDS: product management, inventory management, supplier negotiations, range planning, KPI management
---

PRODUCT MANAGEMENT ACTIONS

Below are a series of actions that we are in the process of undertaking to best both identify where

we are with our stock levels and how to manage out of this. Time lines to be able to both forward

order and get back into key lines is the obvious driver to how far out we need to plan our ranges etc.

Suppliers

Speak to all suppliers and advise them to hold all orders until out business can re-forecast our

position, that this is in the best interest of all parties to ensure that we will have a long and

profitable future together. We should ideally have a final position on this in the next week.

We then need to negotiate payment terms with the suppliers, as when we land these new lines in

the future our sales line will be more uncertain and therefore having longer to pay for the stock that

we land will be a huge benefit to our cash flow. Additional to this obviously further discounts and

lower cost prices is a necessity, keeping in mind the suppliers will have a lot of uncertainty at present

and depending on the category our suppliers will be receiving very few if any forward orders at

present.

OTB management.

As much as trying to forecast the future feels impossible at the moment we have started with the

following. Nil sales for 8 weeks and 50% of sales for the next 12 weeks, not sure if this is accurate but

it is a start. We will then come out of ‘hibernation’ on sale and hit the lines we need to quit fast and

hard to both excite the customer and clear old lines, therefore the margin forecast for the first 4

weeks will be impacted and then ideally a return to full price margins.

KPI’s

All the KPI’s that we may use to measure our stocks at the moment will look terrible and be in the

red. I would resist any temptation to change the KPI’s and settle for anything ‘in-between’ what we

had and where we are now. We need to use these to remind ourselves ‘what good looks like’ and

have plans in place to get it there.

Range planning.

We have opted to build ranges and model towards what we see our shops looking like for the 1st

July. Therefore we have planned out the range plan for this date and basically assumed that if we

open before then we will be on sale clearing down lines. Any ranges that we have on the way that

were planned from now until June we have looked at and either decided to;

a) Cancel if not too late (but in most cases we are too late to cancel) or;

b) Build into the range plan for July and therefore cancelled other lines that we were planning

to land for July and August or;

c) Clear them ASAP.

If we opt to build these lines into July and August we still need to look at what quantities were

ordered as if we assume retail sales take some time to come back, we will automatically have too

much stock for new lines.

Store grades.

We are using this time to re-run the last 6 months sales history per store, per category (fashion,

basics, value, kids, hair) to re-grade the stores as what may have been graded as an A store may

have changed, also due to the latest events we need to forecast the store grading’s globally coming

out of this.

How much to buy of each style.

If we are forecasting that sales will be tough coming out of the closures, we need to review all

forward orders and be buying lines for our best estimate of the new ‘norm’. If sales are going to be

50% for say the following quarter post opening then we need to make sure that we are only buying

half of what we used to buy of a line. Again depending on the speed of the supply chain this can be

easier and or harder to have to forecast further out.

Identifying excess lines.

Once we have revised the;

- store grading’s

- new sell through forecasts

- what’s on the way in both breadth and depth of each sku

- what’s already in our stores and warehouses

We can then work out what is excess, so for instance; if we forecast that 900 pieces of a line is the

right quantity to hold into July once we have revised down our sales targets then anything that we

are holding now over 900 pieces is a problem and needs to be identified and dealt with ASAP.

OPTIMUM STOCK 1 JULY is achieved by CURRENT STOCK IN BUSINESS/ON WAY LESS OVERSTOCKS

So for example if the optimum stock position for 1 July is 900 pcs, if the business has 1400 pcs we

need to identify that we have 500 pieces to clear, even if the line if currently full price.

Due to our business being a drip feed with ongoing replenishment from our factories we will revise

any incoming orders and cut back orders if possible. If the products are already on the way or in our

business then if it is excess and needs to be dealt with.

Clearing these lines.

At present we have limited options so we have to make these options work really hard;

a) Online, and excite our customer with great offers and value.

b) 3rd party clearance brands such as Catch of the Day.

c) Any stores trading.

Each market is different and whether we have physical access to our stores in various markets but

wherever possible once we have arrived at our final stock position we will ask our managers to get

to work and re-merchandise our stores ready to go for the opening. This will help keep our managers