SOURCE: Protecting & Pivoting - Boris Groysberg.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Continuous Improvement Strategies
SUMMARY: The text discusses how organizations can learn from world-class athletes to continuously improve their core business through small, incremental changes.
KEYWORDS: continuous improvement, organizational excellence, Toyota Production System, Danaher Business System
---

[Document: Protecting & Pivoting - Boris Groysberg.pdf]

Protect the Core

Protecting the core is partially about becoming more and more effective and efficient in the

company’s core business. The focus is improvement, not exponential growth. Improvement is always

possible. Yes, it may be small, but even extremely small improvements can be worthwhile. Look at the

example of Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps, the most decorated Olympian in history, who continued

to practice, focusing on shaving milliseconds off his time. Phelps never stopped improving. Similarly,

look at the career of Dirk Nowitzski, the first European NBA MVP, who played for the NBA for an

astonishing 21 years. Nowitzki refined his skills by breaking them down into their component parts and

focusing intently on the elements that needed improvement—not just practicing jump shots, but

watching videos and breaking down the movements and striving to improve, say, the precision of his

positioning. As Nowitzki described, “I was never satisfied... I wanted to get the max out of my talent, out

of my potential. After the season, I took a week or two weeks off and then I was back in the gym. Every

summer, I played on the national team to play at a high level and practice the stuff I worked on all

summer. I then came back in the winter a better player. I always saw myself as a guy who was

evolving.”iii Stars practice, and they keep practicing long after they are stars.

Organizations can also learn a great deal from the examples set by these world-class athletes,

who are never satisfied, even at the top of their games and seemingly at the peak of their performance.

Like Phelps and Nowitzki, two examples of organizations that excel at continuous improvement are

Toyota, a Japanese automotive manufacturer, and Danaher, a conglomerate with brands in diagnostics,

life sciences, and environmental and applied solutions.iv Toyota employs a system known as the Toyota

Production System (TPS), “a production system based on the philosophy of achieving the complete

elimination of all waste in pursuit of the most efficient methods.”v The production system is based on

two principles: automation with a human touch, and each process producing only what is needed for

the next process in a continuous flow. According to Toyota, “TPS and its approach to cost reduction are

the wellsprings of competitive strength and unique advantages for Toyota... Even today, all Toyota

production divisions are making improvements to TPS day-and-night to ensure its continued

evolution.”vi Similarly, Danaher has a system for achieving its goals called the Danaher Business System

(DBS). The DBS “engine drives the company through a never-ending cycle of change and improvement:

exceptional people develop outstanding plans and execute them using world-class tools to construct

sustainable processes, resulting in superior performance.”vii According to Danaher, “We use DBS to

guide what we do, measure how well we execute, and create options for doing even better—including

improving DBS itself.”viii

Cost cutting is inevitable in dire times, but the current crisis is an opportunity for an intense

questioning of processes—including in areas where your company already excels. We have seen that

companies can save 20-30% on costs by improving processes. In fact, we heard from two companies

who are considered gold standards in operational efficiency in their industries, and in examining and

honing their processes, they were still able to improve their efficiency by 10% and 15% respectively.

Whenever you think you’re done and your organization is running as efficiently as possible, think again.

Whether it be eliminating duplicate procedures or useless and cumbersome paperwork, there are

always ways to streamline your operations. There is no limit to continuous improvement and

innovation. Below are three suggestions for enabling continuous improvement in your company:

Call on Cross-Functional Teams to Help Solve Problems

In order to achieve greater efficiency, one best practice is to build a cross-functional team who

can interrogate your areas of excellence, asking questions such as: What is truly necessary? How are

things done? At the individual and company levels, how is time spent, and where are there

opportunities to make processes more efficient?

When managed well, cross-functional teams can add a great deal of value. As a first step, help

the team define and understand its common goal by empowering members to discover how a challenge

affects other functions beyond their own and the company as a whole. In other words, members need

to adjust their perspectives to encompass the needs of more than just their own function, which may be

easier for some people than others, in order to reach their goal. Next, help negotiate the allocation of

resources within the team, recognizing that some functions will contribute more to the team (at the

very least, in terms of people’s time) than others will and that some functions may see a bigger payoff

than others will if the team is successful. It is also important to remain flexible and recognize that the

allocation of resources may shift over time. A third consideration is that you or another leader may need

to help guide the team through concerns that become “sticking points”—it is important to keep the

team progressing toward their goal, but to properly address all concerns raised along the way.ix

Use the “Clean Sheet of Paper” Exercise to Think Creativity about Company Processes

Another best practice is to do the “clean sheet of paper” exercise with your executive team,

meaning to have conversations about how you would organize the operations of the company if you

were just starting out and there was no such thing as “but that’s always the way it’s been done”. As

explained by Team Strength, Inc.:

Start [the clean sheet of paper exercise] by questioning assumptions. The question is

simple: Why? Why do you do this? Why do you do things in this way? Just keep asking

“why?” – every subsequent “why?” will go deeper. Asking “why?” five times is a strategy

pioneered by Toyota to track down the root cause of mistakes. Consider the elements