SOURCE: Protecting & Pivoting - Boris Groysberg.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Business Transformation
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for business transformation, including questioning assumptions, creating a clean slate, and forming cross-functional teams to identify new opportunities.
KEYWORDS: business transformation, clean sheet of paper, cross-functional teams, efficiency, innovation
---

[Document: Protecting & Pivoting - Boris Groysberg.pdf]

were just starting out and there was no such thing as “but that’s always the way it’s been done”. As

explained by Team Strength, Inc.:

Start [the clean sheet of paper exercise] by questioning assumptions. The question is

simple: Why? Why do you do this? Why do you do things in this way? Just keep asking

“why?” – every subsequent “why?” will go deeper. Asking “why?” five times is a strategy

pioneered by Toyota to track down the root cause of mistakes. Consider the elements

and processes are there for a reason, and then try to understand it. When you

thoroughly examine the assumptions behind their current use, you will likely make

surprising discoveries with a capacity for large changes. When you get to the root cause,

you are not only solving this symptom, but a whole family of similar problems that did

not –but very well might have– occurred.x

Perry Evans, President of ThriveHive, stated in the New York Times, “In any transformation I’ve seen, the

winner is always the one who takes out a clean sheet of paper and says, ‘This is how you would do it if

you didn’t have the drag of your traditional business.’”xi This exercise may greatly help illuminate

opportunities to improve effectiveness and efficiency.

Keep People Accountable and Adjust Their Deliverables

The COVID-19 outbreak presents us all with an unpresented amount of uncertainty. We do not

know how long the crisis will last, when and how restrictions on the public will be lifted, how customers

will behave in the aftermath, and how the once-familiar environments in which your company operated

will have been impacted for the long-term, if not permanently. As a result, it is nearly impossible to plan

for the next six months—there simply is not enough data and information to do so. Plans, and the

corresponding KPIs and other metrics that will empower your team to execute them, should be adjusted

to address the company’s immediate needs and short-term goals, and communicated continually. This

will enable you to hold people accountable for performance while ensuring that their limited energy and

processing capacity is being spent on truly mission-critical tasks.

Paying attention to your core business and the efficiency of your operations is critical because,

even if you are not prioritizing it, your competition is. In addition, your competition may also be

operating with 10-20% less real estate needs post-pandemic due to a long-term increase in remote

work. Do not be satisfied until you achieve greater efficiency, as it will benefit your organization now

and after the crisis has subsided.

Again, Look to Cross-Functional Teams

Again, a cross-functional team assigned to this challenge would be one practice to consider. Ask

this team, with their diversity of experiences and perspectives, to focus on what opportunities exist

outside the core business. Ask them to think about new revenue streams for the short-term and the

long- term. Challenge them to think outside the box. You may also want to consider monitoring the

team for burnout, given the intensity of their work, and perhaps rotating people off and on the team in

predetermined intervals. This could both prevent burnout and provide a pipeline of fresh perspectives.

Create an Agile Enterprise from the Top Down

We recommend building agile leadership teams to support an agile enterprise. Building such an

enterprise means striking a balance between standardizing operations and pursuing innovations. Bain &

Company’s Darrell Rigby, Sarah Elk and Steve Berez elaborate on the role of the agile leadership team:

To find the optimal balance, the agile leadership team typically begins by creating new

metrics to help determine how agile the company is, how agile it should be, whether it

is moving in the right direction at the right speed, and which constraints are impeding

progress. Surveys of internal and external stakeholders to obtain their subjective views

of business processes combined with objective measures—such as innovation cycle

times, flow efficiency (work time versus wait time), and market share changes—are

useful for determining the existing state of the operating system components. The team

then develops a sequenced list of activities aimed at achieving an optimal balance for

each component. The agile process forces leaders to get out of their silos and work

together as a multidisciplinary group, breaking through impediments and pivoting when

necessary. By rebalancing whichever of the components are out of alignment, they will,

over time, create an operating system for an agile enterprise.xviii

An agile leadership team includes some or all executive team members. They do not dedicate all

of their time to a single, specific initiative, as that would just not be possible. They must balance

establishing an agile enterprise with the more traditional duties of their roles. As such, they act as

sponsors of the specific initiatives that are most closely connected to their areas of expertise, letting

assigned “initiative owners” take full-time responsibility for their projects. The central project of any

agile leadership team is creating an agile enterprise in which all other initiatives are undertaken. Rigby,

Elk and Berez state:

An agile leadership team views development of the agile system as an agile initiative—in

fact, as the most vital of all agile initiatives. Senior executives learn to manage the

transition as an agile team. They view it as a continuous improvement program, not as a

project with predictable end points or fixed completion dates. They realize that going

too slowly may fail to achieve escape velocity, and that changing too fast will create

chaos. So they sequence and balance all the components, recognize the value of role-

modeling agile behaviors, and appreciate that how they make decisions will be as

important as the decisions themselves.xix

In time, your agile leadership team will come to focus considerably more on strategy and less on

operations management.xx A greater focus on innovation, collaboration and strategy will help guide your

company on how and when to pivot.

Generate Insights about Where to Pivot