SOURCE: Ray - Retail Ops Academy.ppt
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Development and Rewards
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for creating growth opportunities, providing tangible rewards, and managing the store visit and feedback process for employees in a retail setting.
KEYWORDS: employee growth, performance rewards, store visits, action plans, feedback
---

[Document: Ray - Retail Ops Academy.ppt]
[Presentation Topic: Retail Operations Management]

As your company grows and matures, and more infrastructure is formalized, performance reviews can be opportunities to discuss employees’ career goals, and obtain input for creating stretch opportunities for them — both within their current roles and in new roles.

5.  Create growth opportunities

Make it a priority to scan the internal environment first to see if there are existing employees who could stretch into the new position…growing to the next level.  Make sure employees are aware of internal openings and have a chance to apply for them if they’re interested.

6.  Underscore positive feedback with something tangible

Beyond salary/bonus/equity, think about “rewarding” employees for truly superior performance — How about dinner on the company as a spot award?  Or, recognizing employees’ start-date anniversaries?  Or, closing the office early before a holiday to allow the team to get a jump on the holiday? Or, awarding a personal day after completion of a ‘hairy-scary’ assignment?  At the end of the day – words are just words.  While feedback is important, people also need to feel appreciated in a tangible way.  The return in terms of employee loyalty and commitment will far outweigh the financial cost of these “spot” awards over the long run.

[Slide 41]

Support Centre

How do we manage?  Important to build relationships.

Retail planner

WIP Meeting – weekly

Retail & Department Head Catch Ups

Department Head Meetings

AAR’s

Christmas – Retail Presentation to Support Centre

Customer Support Buddy Program

Back to Store Day

One Team Culture

Say thankyou

[Slide 42]

Effective Store Visits

Checklist & Weekly Memo

[Slide 43]

Create an Action Plan

An action plan shows the Store Manager that you are serious about actions for improvement in their store.

It also shows that you are willing to help plan and support them through it.

Each action item needs to be SPECIFIC so when team read it they understand what is expected of them.

Ensure the timeframe given to the action point is REALISTIC and can be completed on time.

[Slide 44]

Action Plans - things to remember

List each action point in order of priority – most important to least

Each point is to list who will be responsible for each task and the deadline

Ensure you only list the action – don’t make each point a long explanation, be clear and concise

Dates for completion of each task should be agreed upon by the Store Manager

Follow-up between visits on their progress of the tasks to help support the team through the deadlines

Any time a task is not completed or is repeated on an Action Plan, you need to make a note of it and put a plan in place to fix the problem.

There is only ever to be one Action Plan that a store is working on at any one time.

[Slide 45]

Give regular honest feedback

What is a Memo?

A written statement, record or communication designating something to be remembered, especially something to be done or acted upon in the future.

This is a great training tool that helps highlight and improve performance, allows a Manager to effectively summarise feedback (both positive and constructive).

A Memo:

Formally address behaviours and feedback following a full day SVR store visit

Confirm what has transpired during conversations during the store visit.

Assists in holding our Store Managers accountable.

[Slide 46]

Give regular honest feedback

Writing a Memo

Using a company letterhead, the memo is addressed to the Store Manager personally and summarises any points that are discussed (especially the points raised on training or behavioural opportunities).

The memo is used to highlight the standard of performance being achieved (where it is good) or what is expected (where improvements are required).

It also helps to formalise what the responsibilities are of the Store Manager and the outcomes expected.

[Slide 47]

Give regular honest feedback

The following guidelines will help you structure a memo:

Use a clear subject line.

State your  purpose in the first paragraph.

Keep the paragraphs short.

Use subheadings between paragraph groups.

It is critical that for each point being raised that you explain the reason WHY and HOW to rectify.

All things that are discussed in the memo are to be first raised with the team member personally.

[Slide 49]

Memo – things to remember

Don’t make it too lengthy, the more concise the better

A memo should always contain professional content and presented appropriately on a company letterhead.

Always proofread very carefully.  Check your grammar, spelling and punctuation

Write in the first person (I or we) and make it about them (you)

You are responsible for ensuring it lands in the right hands

Be factual, not personal

[Slide 50]

Store Visit Review – Action Plans

[Slide 51]

Tools

[Slide 53]

Weekly Memo

It’s your key management & communication tool

How do you get information for the memo?

What is being done to ensure it is being actioned

Make it appealing to the team.. Have fun

Don’t make it too long…

[Slide 54]

Rosters

The most important tool to running a successful store

They are often done without thought of when our Customers will be there

Do they change during school holidays?

What do special events do to our sales?

Who is looking at history?

Area Managers should submit a Roster Cover sheet forecasting their wages

When you walk into a store, check the roster… It tells you a lot about the store

[Slide 55]

Store Execution

Operation Manual

Merchandising guide

Diary

Campaign Guides

National Conference Call

Executive Jam Communication

Customer Promise

Culture Commitments

Store Support

Store Visit Reviews – SVR’s

[Slide 56]

Christmas

Staying fresh

Getting your team on board

Trading hours

Rostering

Treat key campaigns as a Christmas trial run

Review previous AAR

Box counts

Wage control

Plan B

Don’t leave recruitment to the last minute

[Slide 57]

Continuous Improvement

This is key to our success

Challenge yourself and your team

AAR’s are a great tool

[Slide 58]

Questions?