SOURCE: Ray - Retail Ops Academy.ppt
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies to effectively implement and sustain organizational change, including accountability, communication, leadership, and employee involvement.
KEYWORDS: change management, transformation, communication, leadership, employee engagement
---

[Document: Ray - Retail Ops Academy.ppt]
[Presentation Topic: Retail Operations Management]

Are our tools current?

Is it documented?

What are our follow up methods?

Ask the Team in stores about their training…

[Slide 33]

Accountability

Accountability

[Slide 34]

Making it stick!!

Change is, at its core, a people process

People are creatures of habit, hardwired to resist adopting new mind-sets, practices, and behaviours.

To achieve and sustain transformational change “Making it Stick”. Brands must…

Embed these mind-sets, practices, and behaviours at every level

It is very hard to do — but it has never been more important

[Slide 35]

How do we make it stick?

Understand and spell out the impact of the change on people

It’s  basis for communicating with the team members about what the change means for them personally

Why? the predominant concern of every employee in a business transformation.

Build an emotional and rational case for change

Change management communications need to be targeted to each department of the Brand

It must be delivered in a two-way fashion that allows our team to make sense of the change subjectively.

If we are asking our team to adapt to a new reality, they need to understand the emotional case for the change so they can feel truly committed to the transformation.

Bringing the details of what will change, and what won’t into the presentation/communication allows leaders to paint a vivid picture of what the change means for employees personally, not only why it benefits the business. (WIIFM RULE – What’s  In It For Me)

3. Ensure that the entire leadership team is a role model for the change

Executives must be not only “on top” of the change program, but also “in front” of it, modelling the new behaviours. Passion & Leadership

Executives asking  and coaching their  team to adopt and holding one another accountable for the initiative’s success.

When executives talk about creating a performance culture, they must demonstrate through example what that means.

An aligned and committed leadership team is the foundation for any Brand undertaking. When executives lead by example, the impact can be profound.

[Slide 36]

How do we make it stick?

4. Mobilise your people to “own” and accelerate the change.

The truth is that most change initiatives are done “to” employees, not implemented “with” them or “by” them.

To counteract this undermining force, companies should leverage the network of peer-to-peer interactions.

People need to be encouraged and motivated to change their behaviour by those around them as much as they need incentives from the top.

Pride, commitment, and purpose reside here.

We must  use powerful emotional motivators, invite employees to contribute ideas and perspectives, and provide the kind of informal support and recognition that makes it easier to take ownership of new behaviours, we can accelerate and intensify the impact of the change initiative.

5. Embed the change in the fabric of the organization.

To embed the change and ensure that it sticks, you should acknowledge the lessons learned = Integrity & Trust

We also should investigate how to engage and involve employees over the long term and how to institutionalize best practices to capture the full benefit of this change and any future changes.

To enable lasting change, all HR systems, structures, processes, and incentives must be aligned and consistent with the goals of the transformation

We need to articulate clearly the various people-oriented elements of the future organization, not just its structure, but also employee value propositions and individual and team roles.

As well as required competencies, skills, and behaviours. Things like performance management, learning and development, workforce strategy, and retention programs are key enablers of the change program.

[Slide 38]

Retaining High Performers

Did you know?

The cost of replacing workers is at 70% to 200% of their annual salaries?

This does not including the effects on the brand of lost knowledge, declining morale and productivity, and customer dissatisfaction

New team tend to demand 15% to 35% more in pay than the employees they replace.

[Slide 39]

6 steps for retaining good employees

Communicate, communicate, communicate

The funny thing about communication is that it’s as much about the words you say, as it is about the tone of your voice combined with eye contact, hand gestures, body positioning, and even touch (that proverbial “pat on the back”.)

Face time, however scarce, is an immensely important factor in communicating well and establishing trust. If you are managing employees in remote locations, try to meet with them in person on a regular basis

Coach rather than manage

Try to balance giving your team members the authority, the tools and the space they need to do their jobs – empowering them – and staying checked-in as they execute their responsibilities. Be accessible for, and open to, problem solving – whether it’s brainstorming next steps or fighting fires.  And, be accessible personally – taking a genuine interest in employees as individuals, as people

Establish clear performance metrics and make employees accountable for delivering

Establish well defined metrics for evaluating an employee’s contribution to achieving business goals. Expect and demand good work. Review performance versus those metrics on a regular basis.  Acknowledge good work when it’s delivered.  Discuss work that missed the mark and jointly determine how to avoid a repeat performance in the next round.

[Slide 40]

6 steps for retaining good employees

Leverage performance reviews to gain insights into employee’ goals and aspirations

As your company grows and matures, and more infrastructure is formalized, performance reviews can be opportunities to discuss employees’ career goals, and obtain input for creating stretch opportunities for them — both within their current roles and in new roles.

5.  Create growth opportunities

Make it a priority to scan the internal environment first to see if there are existing employees who could stretch into the new position…growing to the next level.  Make sure employees are aware of internal openings and have a chance to apply for them if they’re interested.

6.  Underscore positive feedback with something tangible