SOURCE: Recruiting and Hiring Organizational Assessment for BBRC International 2016.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2016
TOPIC: Hiring and Recruitment Process
SUMMARY: The text discusses a structured and effective assessment process for hiring the right candidates by involving the right interviewers, using the right techniques, and providing the right organizational support.
KEYWORDS: interviewer selection, structured interviews, reference checks, organizational support, candidate assessment
---

[Document: Recruiting and Hiring Organizational Assessment for BBRC International 2016.pdf]

can conilict with the other two. An assessment process that will effectively execute on all three

uses the following sequence of steps:

¢ The right interviewers: The first step is to select a small number of individuals —

typically the hire’s prospective boss, the boss’s boss, and the top HR manager — to

conduct the interviews and check references. It is more important to choose the right

assessors than to focus on the assessment technique.

The right number of interviewers: Given the importance and difficulty of assessments,

you may be tempted to involve a large number of interviewers. Probabilistic analysis

shows that three independent top caliber interviewers are enough. With the right skills

and motivation, they will help you reach a high level of accuracy in your assessments

while still maintaining a low probability of losing exceptional talents.

The right techniques: Properly structured interviews and reference checks will help you

achieve reliable assessments. We recommend a particular type of structured interview,

called a “behavioral event interview,” followed by thorough reference checks that fill out

the picture.

The right organizational support: Once you are convinced that you have one to three

highly qualified candidates, it’s time to start exposing the finalists to a few key

stakeholders who have been properly briefed about the position’s requirements. It’s

important here to ensure that these people hold no conflicts of interest and can evaluate

the candidates objectively. They should review each prospect's relevant skills, as well as

the detailed assessmenis, to avoid rejecting the right candidates for the wrong reasons.

te)

a

4

m

v

>

QP

”

a)

m

i)

n

=

x

m

)

>

=

o

oO

>

4

m

ABILITY TO ASSESS THE CANDIDATE

FOR YOUR COMPANY

AHL SSASSV OL ALITICV

3

>

>

9

oO

>

=f

m

1

o

a

<

ql

q

d

d

Prospective candidates are interviewed by

people from multipte departments in my

company.

The people who interview candidates for

jobs are deeply knowiedgeable about the

needs of the company, the team, and the

Position itself.

The people who interview candidates for

jobs are trained in best practice

interviewing and assessment techniques.

| The people who interview candidates for

jobs are trained to avoid perception errors

and biases (e.g.. first-impression errors,

| attribution errors, similarity bias).

My company does a thorough and rigorous

| check of all of a candidate's references.

When assessing candidates, my company

weighs multiple sources of employee

information (e.g. resumes, references,

performance on interviews, screening and

| assessment test scores).

| My company invests sufficient time in

| assessing candidates.

1.00 3.00 4.00 5.00

Ey

Ss

>

Fy

E

a

o

2°

o

6

N

=)

r=)

STEP 5: CLOSE THE DEAL

Many companies think financial compensation is the tinchpin in recruiting. But closing the deal is

not just about money; it’s also about demonstrating to candidates that the organization is

committed to their success. Following are the four key factors that determine whether or not the

top candidate will accept your offer:

¢ The organization’s commitment: A personal show of commitment from company

leadership is essential. By expressing a sincere interest in the project and the person,

and by genuinely understanding the candidate’s motivation, concerns, and long-term fit

with the organization, leadership can send a powerful message that the company truly

cares.

* The job: Realistic presentation of both the opportunities and the challenges of a

prospective position result in higher offer-acceptance rates, better post-employment job

satisfaction, and lower turnover.

* The boss: It’s well known that employees do not leave jobs; they leave their managers.

Because of this, the hiring manager must demonstrate commitment by being heavily

involved in the closing stage of the hiring process, rather than delegating this last, critical

step to HR.

* Compensation: Aside from considering the comparable market rate for the position and

the prospect's past salary, there is another important benchmark — the current state of

compensation within the company.

C

a

pe

m

u

4)

(a)

hg

o

a

m

4

x

m

]

m

>

r

@)

ANVdWO9 YNOA NOS Wa3G SHL ASOD OL ALITISV

Compensation for external hires is

benchmarked to current compensation

rates at my company, so that a new hire

doesn't significantly out-earn colleagues.

|

| Prospective candidates are given a good

| sense of the steps in my company's hiring

process.

| Senior leadership is actively and personally

involved in closing the deal.

Our staff is well trained in how to negotiate

offers and the overall employment

package.

When closing the deal, our staff is skilled at

learning about the individual needs of

prospective candidates in order to help

tailor their packages.

My company has an effective strategy to

manage the transition period between

making an offer and the start date of a new

hire to help prevent surprises (e.g.,

withdrawal from the position, unaddressed

demands).

Generally, my company is able to hire the

candidates it most wants.

in Your Average

= Global Average

ABILITY TO CLOSE THE DEAL

FOR YOUR COMPANY

0.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 4.00

5.00

The recruitment process doesn’t end after the deal has been closed, although most companies

think it does. Typically, the entire integration “strategy” consists essentially of signing up the

promising candidate, making the necessary introductions, and hoping for the best. But talented

new hires should not be given the freedom to sink or swim; more often than not, they sink. In

general, organizations that systematically integrate new employees enjoy lower turnover, and

the recruits report greater commitment and job satisfaction. An effective integration plan should

consist of the following:

* Begin integrating new hires during the interview stage, before they ever come to work.

* Assign each new employee a mentor. A veteran of the company’s culture can serve as a

valuabie reality check until the newcomer becomes fully culturally literate. Also, the

mentor’s role should be ongoing, not just a quick “buddy” fix to make the newcomer feel

at home.