SOURCE: Recruiting and Hiring Organizational Assessment for BBRC International 2016.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2016
TOPIC: Onboarding and Integrating New Hires
SUMMARY: The text outlines steps to improve the group's ability to integrate new hires and audit/review the hiring process.
KEYWORDS: onboarding, integration, hiring review, audit
---

[Document: Recruiting and Hiring Organizational Assessment for BBRC International 2016.pdf]

2.

3.

Steps | can take to improve my group's ability

to Integrate the Newcomer

1.

2.

3.

Steps | can take to improve my group’s ability

to Audit and Review

1.

2.

3.

®

NV 1d NOILSY YNOA :SSAN3SAILD3443 ONIMIH GNV ONILINNDSSY YNOA ONIAONGNI O

9)

S30 LOVHd ONIMIH GNY ONILINHDSY BNOA NO SINSWWOD

COMMENTS ON YOUR RECRUITING

AND HIRING PRACTICES

Please note comments appear as they were entered.

If you had to choose one recruiting and hiring practice that your company is currently

doing and should keep and one that your company is not currently doing but should

start, what are they? Why?

Comment 1: Keep online career website to keep talent pool there.

Focus on more Social Media like Linkedin to attract candidates.

Comment 2: Video and Linkedin

Direct through the Careers website.

If your brand is good enough the right candidates come to you

Comment 3: trials working well

onboarding needs work

Comment 4: Video hiring should keep.

Candidate profiling should start.

Comment 5: Open recruitment - must maintain. Great balance of output for result. We can fill the bulk of vacancies

in one sitting

Poaching talent in a a senior level from competitors - or even just identifying and networking.

Comment 6: Keep - tracking vacancies and days vacant reporting.

Start doing - train behavioural interviewing or personality profiling

Comment 7: Keep - video recruiting as it helps to gain the right candidate quicker

Comment 8: Keep - trial period and/or extensive skills test

Start - lunch or drink with unrelated member of team for cultural fit and different point of view

Comment 9: currently... interviews

should do... psychological testing for senior executives

Comment 10: LinkedIn presence for our global business is key for networking with candidates.

We are yet to utilize recruitment tests for all applicants, Psychometric Tests, Personality Tests, Aptitude Tests for

example. | would consider whether these tests are required for Executive and Management roles.

Comment 11: What Honey Birdette is doing and should keep on doing is continual internal training and

development of team and promoting from within the company for greatest brand/culture knowledge. Make retail a

career, General Managers of Retail were once a Christmas Casual.

What were not doing is strategically hiring - as a small company in HQ we don't have a lot of opportunity for

succession planning as dept team are very small, cross training is needed for when a team member goes on leave

or tho cover, cross train new recruit opportunities. [os

Comment 12: Having designated days for recruitment is a huge help to keep team focused.

Need a better recruitment process to accomodate for rapid growth.

Comment 13: We are starting to use Linked in more to scout for talent.

We should start an employee engagement review.

If you had to choose one recruiting and hiring practice that your company is currently

doing and should stop, what is it? Why?

Comment 1: Recruitment companies and internet based job boards

Comment 2: One getting one person to interview.

Comment 3: At times, the recruitment falls on the regional team. This is challenging during peak trade when there

are a lot of tasks to deliver. More support is needed

Comment 4: Stop - compulsory video application has turned off application via our website/seek

Comment 5: Collecting resumes as everyone now has them professionally written. They don't show you the true

talent of the applicant. .

Comment 6: Near enough is good enough. Organisational needs of the business can take over and we fail to take

the time to pick an outstanding candidate, rather settle for a good candidate.

Comment 7: Our preference is not to use Agencies based on cost. Ideally our network and talent pool will attract

the right candidates without paying a premium finders fee.

Comment 8: At a retail level | believe that the Area Manager should be responsible for hiring and placing all team.

They are assisted in this area but when it comes to dynamics of who would work well together and the store

demographic to suit the personality. | think the Area Manager is best equip to manage this.

Comment 9: Not enough focus on delivering and screening applicants for demand.

Comment 10: We have been very reliant on one particular recruitment agency.

What are the two or three biggest recruiting and hiring opportunities open to your

company in the next 3 years?

Comment 1: International recruiting and sourcing candidates from abroad.

Networking physically as well as with social media to tap in to more talent, be more proactive than reactive.

Comment 2: More video

Growing the brand and culture to grow the candidate pool

Comment 3: head of leasing potentially

new centre managers

regional asset manager

Comment 4: Competitors closing.

Our performance

Our culture.

Comment 5: Bringing in new talent to support entry and growth into new markets

Recruiting senior managers capable of sustaining growth in current markets as we succession plan existing team

Comment 6: Talent mgmt - managing internal team members through more rigorous training programs to increase

internal appointments

Improving our rating - currently have a poor reputation on seek via the company review page

ideal team member - adapt the talent program to ensure we are able to highlight the winners who are the right fit

Comment 7: Getting the right talent.

Projecting our recruitment requirments correctly.

Completing continual recruitment the training.

Comment 8: Changing needs and growth of the business enabling us to bring in specialists in retail design and

development

Growth and scale producing opportunities for centre managers and finance.

Comment 9: Improve succession planning

Improve the ability to asertain cultural fit

Comment 10: New Countries as part of our expansion

Becoming an employer of choice

Global presence

Comment 11: With continued brand growth and international presence potential employees are coming to us as

the retailer of choice.

| believe that our growing brand presence and success will make future hiring opportunities easier.