SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Interactive Retail Experiences
SUMMARY: Retailers can create memorable experiences for shoppers by using interactive technologies and embracing natural interfaces to increase brand and product interaction.
KEYWORDS: interactive technologies, brand interaction, product interaction, memorable experiences, retail experiences
---

emotional relationships with shoppers by increasing brand and product interaction. Interactive

technologies that embrace natural interfaces and that span several of the five senses can create

memorable experiences for shoppers that create deeper relationships with brands. For example,

McCormick Spices created an interactive Guess That Spice machine. The system dispenses a variety of

spice scents and shoppers attempt to identify the spice correctly from a list using a large touch screen.

Spice connoisseurs earn discount coupons depending on their performance.

4.3.3 Choice and control

Shoppers have an expectation of abundance. They seek retailers that can offer a plethora of products

that are always available and in stock. And shoppers favor retailers that allow them to shop whenever

they want to shop (which is anytime). Savvy retailers will not just offer shoppers choice, but also help

them choose.

Challenge: As store footprints diminish (section 4.2.2), retailers will need to find ways to offer maximum

product choice within the small physical spaces they have available. They will need to display and

merchandize products as efficiently as possible. Technology that creates virtual spaces, combined with

systems that increase store automation could offer a helpful solution. See section 7.3.4 for more detail.

4.3.4 Transparency

Shoppers are demanding increased transparency into pricing, retail operations, and the products they

buy. This is particularly true for Millennials who now see a purchase as a ‘vote’ for a brand. In their

minds, they are what they buy. They want to know ahead of time that buying a product or brand will

reflect well on them, and their own personal brand, ‘Brand Me’. Consumers want to understand your

company, your manufacturing policies, how your products are made, and how seriously you take

corporate social responsibility before they reach for their wallet. Mobile apps like Buycott*, and

BuyPartisan* make it easy for shoppers to quickly research a product or brand as an aid to their

purchase decision.

Transparency also extends to shoppers’ expectations of connectivity in the store: if you’re resisting their

efforts to use their devices to check the competitiveness of your prices, read reviews on your products,

or get information on your operations, they may conclude that perhaps you have something to hide.

28

Challenge: Retailers will need to consider proactively increasing the transparency of their operations.

This might include being able to provide shoppers (or more accurately prospective shoppers) details on

labor practices, the origin of products, and even political donations. For some retailers this will imply

cleaning up some of their operational policies and practices and placing more emphasis on supply chain

ethics and supplier management. In an era where savvy shoppers are empowered with information that

is available at the speed of the Internet, transparency cannot be faked. The “green-washing”

phenomenon of the last decade quickly revealed some organizations as being less sincere than others as

they responded to consumers’ demands to operate more sustainably. Companies like apparel retailer

Everlane* are already staking out leadership positions in this space and embracing radical transparency.

Opportunity: As the provenance of products becomes more important to consumers, manufacturers

and retailers may be able to differentiate by wrapping origin stories around their products.

Challenge: Retailers that don’t already provide in-store connectivity as a service to shoppers will need to

continually reevaluate their decision in light of shifting shopper demands for transparency.

4.3.5 Brand interaction

Millennial shoppers now have the mindset that they are voting for or investing in a brand when they

make a purchase. These shoppers are demanding an increased say in how a product is developed and

sold, much the way activist shareholders might demand some say in the way their portfolio companies

are run.

Shoppers expect to be both creators and consumers, and favor brands that make them feel included in

the product development, merchandizing and sales processes.

Challenge: Retailers will need to explore ways to involve their customers in two-way conversations

about the future of their business, the suppliers they use, the development of their products, and the

way that they operate. Social networking and other platforms can be used to engage shoppers in this

dialog and do so in a way that strengthens the relationship and the emotional connection between

consumers and brands. These conversations need to be authentic and transparent to be successful.

These efforts should reward retailers with increased customer loyalty and keep them relevant in a fast-

moving marketplace.

4.3.6 Personalized/customized

Shoppers are increasingly looking for products and experiences that have been customized to meet their

individual needs. This is particularly true of Millennials. In a survey by The Cassandra Report, 80% of US

Millennials said they would prefer to have a customized product.

The continued rise of 3D printing and other local, just-in-time manufacturing technologies will likely

accelerate this trend and make mass customization a reality. See section 6.2 for more information.

Shoppers are also interested in products that they can take home and customize. Manufacturers would

be well served to create products that can easily be customized by the consumer, either at time of

purchase, or after purchase. All people have a fundamental need for creative expression and to express

individuality, whether it be in the clothing choices they make, the case that covers their phone, or the

color of their car.

29

Challenge: Retailers will need to examine their businesses and look for areas where it is appropriate to

offer customization as an option. They will need to push suppliers to deliver products with

customization options and look for ways to sell-up to a customized option in the store.

Beyond customized products and services, shoppers are seeking personalized shopping experiences.

Challenge: In order to personalize experiences for their customers, retailers will need to understand

each shopper as best they can and have the intelligence and analytics capabilities in place to enable

them to make every experience in the store both personal and relevant. See section 5 for more detail.

4.3.7 Ownership to access and association