SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Customer Relationships
SUMMARY: Retailers aim to deepen relationships with shoppers by understanding their individual needs and preferences to provide personalized experiences.
KEYWORDS: customer relationship, personalization, shopper genome, customization, retail experience
---

Retailers would like to deepen and strengthen the relationship they have with each shopper. A deeper

relationship leads to increased brand affinity: more store visits, more transactions, and increased total

consumption. To achieve this, retailers must reveal and understand the shopper genome. They must

gain a deeper understanding of the expectations of each shopper and then build mechanisms that

enable them to communicate and interact with the shopper in a highly personalized manner. A manner

that is consistent with the brand position and brand promise of the retailer and that builds intimacy,

trust, and affinity. Understanding the shopper genome will be achieved through the collection and

analysis of data to build an intimate profile of each shopper—needs, wants, desires, aspirations,

preferences, communications style, habits, behaviors, and so forth.

Shoppers would like to be treated as a customer of one, with their retail experience uniquely tailored to

their exact individual tastes and desires.

Shoppers are interested in products, services and experiences that have either been customized,

personalized, or perhaps both. The difference between these two notions is largely about who controls

the individualization choices.

6.4.1 Customized vs Personalized

A customized product, service, or experience is one that has been designed, modified or somehow

finished to conform to the specific choices, or specifications of the shopper. The parameters of the

finished product have been explicitly shaped by the shopper through some sort of interaction where

they are in control. They select from a set of parameters that are offered to them or can choose to

include some level of personal element as part of the customization process, for example a personal

image. Customization may make a product, service, or experience feel more personal, but that does not

make it personalized per se. Examples of customized products include: NikeID* customized shoes, Red

46

Envelope* customized gifts, and the cars offered from most automobile manufacturers. These allow

customers to select engine size, colors, and many other options.

A personalized product, service, or experience is one that has been built based on the observed

behaviors or preferences of a shopper. Personalization requires a retailer or manufacturer to get to

‘know’ their customers in a very intimate way if they are to deliver personalized products or shopping

experiences that delight. Decisions about the way a product is personalized are made by the retailer and

manufacturer, perhaps in partnership with the shopper, but not under shopper control. Amazon*’s

“Recommendations for you” are personalized based on observed behavior on their site. Netflix*

includes “Suggestions for you” based on viewing behavior. And the clothes shipped by Nordstrom’s*

Trunk Club* are chosen by a human that gets to know your personal style and makes personalized

selections based on what they think you might like.

While the distinction between customized and personalized is not a simple one for many people to

grasp it is an important one to understand. A digital sign that displays images based on the apparent age

and gender of a shopper is supplying personalized content while an interactive sign that shows a

shopper the location of a store on a map based on some kind of input from the shopper would be

customization.

Challenge: Retailers will need to think carefully about the right places to apply customization and

personalization capabilities to the products or services they sell and the associated shopping

experiences they wrap around the shopper journey.

6.4.2 Customized products and personalized experiences

According to The Cassandra Report, 80% of Millennials would prefer to have a customized product.

As local just-in-time manufacturing technology (including 3D printing, see section 6.2) evolves and

enables the speedy production of customized goods at point of sale, shoppers will grow more

accustomed to buying customized products, potentially fuelling increased desire for further

customization. This positive feedback loop may lead to customization swiftly moving from a

differentiator, and more of a novelty, to becoming a standard expectation for shoppers. “I’m not buying

from <Brand X> any more. They won’t let me customize a single thing!”

At the service level, customization might be as simple as being able to specify exactly when your

products will be delivered (so you can be home to receive them), or it may be much more complex.

Customization and personalization will affect different sectors in different ways, to different extents,

and on different timescales. But one thing is for sure: Shoppers are going to desire more and more

product customization and expect personalized shopping experiences.

Challenge: Retailers will need to begin experimenting with customization as soon as possible, and figure

out how they can upsell shoppers to customized solutions.

47

Challenge: Brands should be prepared to have a two-way conversation with shoppers to understand

exactly what they want. (And then deliver it to them.) These conversations will need to be facilitated via

easy-to-use interfaces designed to make customization a delight. Colorful touch displays can guide

shoppers thought the customization process and help them design products from modular components.

Technologies including gesture control, augmented reality, and virtual reality may be used to enhance

the customization experience.

Challenge: Retailers will need to find the right balance between meeting a shopper’s desire for

customization and overwhelming them with “choice anxiety”. Smart retailers will hide many

customization options behind a set of simpler choices that mask the truly overwhelming number of

choices or permutations available. For example, Starbucks* doesn’t assault customers with a huge

customization menu yet manages to deliver tens of thousands of options in the way they prepare their

beverages.

6.5 THE RISE OF THE SHARING ECONOMY

Prefaced by massive advances in efficiency in both production and distribution, we are now seeing

technology and new business practice being applied to consumption. The result of this innovation is that

consumption itself is becoming more efficient. This could obviously have profound implications for

retailers and manufacturers.

The sharing economy is creating extraordinary new value at lightning speed, and disrupting whole

industries segments in the process. Consider Uber*, Lyft*, Car2Go*, Sidecar* and RelayRides* versus the