SOURCE: Retail_The Richer Way_Julian Richer.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the success of Richer Sounds, a British retail chain, known for its high sales per unit area and focus on employee engagement and customer satisfaction.
KEYWORDS: retail management, employee motivation, customer satisfaction, sales performance, business success
---

Prepared by Tim Cash July 2002

RETAIL — THE RICHER WAY

Notes from Julian Richer

Prepared by Tim Cash July 2002

GUINESS WORLD OF RECORDS 2001

GREATEST SALES PER UNIT AREA

The record for the greatest number of sales in relation to area of selling

space is held by Richer Sounds ple, a British retail chain. Sales at its branch

in London Bridge Walk, England reached a peak of stg 27,880 per square foot

in the year ending January 31, 1994.

This equates to stg 299,450 per square metre which would provide that Tandy

would undertake stg 45.7m at Penrith and Sydney Hi-Fi stg 32.6m as

compared with $1.2m and $1.65m respectively.

Prepared by Tim Cash July 2002

Richer Sounds declared the busiest in the world by the Guiness Book of Records for 6

years running.

Most important part of the business is people — the question is how do you get the best

out of your workforce!?.

FOCUS ON PEOPLE

Are holiday bonuses for staff more important than leather chairs in the boardroom?

Our employees work in tiny, crowded shops but get to ride around in a Bentley!

Measure the business in terms of people

The primary measure of business “success should be customer satisfaction, not

profits". Profits are simply an indication that you are getting customer service right.

Anyone can play around with prices to push sales and turnover up. You can mess

around with margins and hammer costs to make profits look good. But these are short-

term tricks. Unless the customer is happy, business will not last.

Work should be FUN

Use suggestion scheme that rewards initiative — link the rewards to the aims of the

business.

Managing & Motivating

Talk to the staff to understand — how do they feel, what problems do they see and how

do they think things could improve

Allow staff to talk freely and confidentially

Always room for improvement in normal and productivity

Note Covey’s 7 habits — seek first to understand then to be understood |

Have respect for the individual — “do as you would be done by”

Value the staff and be committed to them

Call everyone colleagues

mprove the incentives to keep the buzz

There is no substitute for basic trust between employer and employee

Establish a waiting list for jobs

Have well paid staff, well trained staff and jobs their friends envy

Improving Performance

2 areas:

a)

Are managers and staff working within a sound framework?

Does the organisation have a clear structure?

Is everyone trained in the procedures to do the job?

Are people working to targets they understand and is their performance being

continually measured?

) Are peuple motivated?

Are they

is WOrkIED

danisation fun?

<2Y TO SUCCESS: RIGHT COMBINATION OF CONTROL & MOTIVATION

luv Tu62

Prepared by Tim Cash July 2002

Framework

e Stores are busy and cheerful

e Staff are smiley, friendly and offer cups of coffee

¢ The whole impression is that it is fun to visit the store whether you leave having spent

$1,000 over or with a catalogue.

e Aim is to train the staff exactly how they should treat you, the customer, from the

minute you enter to the minute you leave.

Procedures are Priority

e Strong and flexible

e Most important are dealing with the customer

e Aimnot to create robots but provide scripts.

e Never say “can J help you?” — it doesn’t sound friendly and worse it almost always

elicits the answer “no”, The customer then feels foolish when assistance is required.

Richer leaves it to individual staff member to decide, based on guidelines.

Continuous Improvement (Kai Zen — good change)

e Learning all the time

e Look for best ways to do things ~ no perfection but only best way until you find a

etter way. .

© Control means having a system in place to ensure that what is currently the best way

is used by everyone every time.

Central control vs empowerment

e Strong control structure with safety valves

e Allow upwards feedback

Empowerment

(a) Freedom to serve — complete empowerment to look after customers

® Allows autonomy and effective conflict resolution.

® Staff trained to take responsibility eg. Complaint = apologise in all cases with or

without knowledge and then sort problem out.

» Remember training is the key.

» Develop an effective toolbox, train people how to use the tools and then allow them to

get on with it.

(b) Freedom to innovate — new ideas

e Suggestion slips

e Staff are expected to contribute ideas from the start and lots of them

(c) Freedom of views

»® ~Colleagues Representatives” feed ideas on behalf of all areas

+ Question Time at twice yearly training seminars — staff determines questions for MD

who ig then put in the hot seat. Questions are searching and blunt.

2 Message to staff ~ it’s your responsibility to tell us what you think,

» Posters remind staff of Colleagues Rep and Question Time

Prepared by Tim Cash

Implementing Improvement

ee. ¢ 6

Managers interested in business tooking for continuous improvement

Achieve by firstly thinking of improvements and then implementing-key point is that

both stages MUST be done.

Improvement must not just be done locally

Ensure rivalry does not hinder

Aim for balance

Set up” Gut the Crap Committee” (monthly) — looks at procedures and paperwork to

ensure systems not clogged with duplication or unreasonableness ~ streamline.

Ideas and more ideas

Carry a note pad to collate

Benchmark employee suggestions — say 20 per employees per year

90% of suggestions come from staff — senior management are pulled up the hill

{Invite customer comments but probable staff ideas are more appropriate/practical

Ask customers why we have let them down.

Effective suggestions schemes

-Most senior person in organisation must be involved

“Make it easy for people to enter suggestions

Answer all suggestions

Answer suggestions quickly

Encourage people to meet in small groups

Reward little and offer

Prizes - $50 voucher, movie tickets