SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Data and Analytics in Retail
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of data and analytics in the retail industry, including the need for data talent, data-driven strategies, and robust data security measures.
KEYWORDS: data analytics, retail technology, customer data, data security, business strategy
---

purchase decision.

 Find ways to market the value of ownership to shoppers.

 Experiment with leasing, loaning, bartering and rental services and dedicate a portion of your

footprint to selling lightly used products in a few stores. Look for ways to upsell to new products.

 Understand the potential margins you are able to make selling new versus pre-owned goods, by

category.

 Be ready to move quickly in the event that a first-mover in your sector jumps into the sharing

economy triggering an avalanche of entrants. Know what you’ll do now if this happens

tomorrow.

Data and analytics

 Boost your organization’s data acumen and acquire data engineering and data analytics talent.

Be prepared to pay for good talent; it’s in high demand.

 Understand how to use insights derived from data can be used to increase loyalty, build brand

connections, improve efficiency, and increase profits. Make this a central component of your

business strategy. Retail businesses run purely on gut instinct and the experience of formerly-

hallowed industry sages will quickly become uncompetitive.

 Build strategic partnerships with experts in data management, network and data architecture,

security and encryption, privacy, analytics, data hosting, cloud, and storage. Most retailers won’t

want to go it alone and will need help. Outsource with pride where it makes sense. And decide

what you need to bring in-house for competitive advantage. You may be able to buy most things

off the shelf and need little to no in-house development. Or you may need a lot. That’s why your

CIO earns the big bucks.

 Embrace robust end-to-end security measures for all your data, including data related to

financial transactions, loyalty program systems, and personal data gathered on shoppers.

Tokenized security systems with high encryption and hardware-based security will significantly

outperform software-only security solutions. Don’t be the next Target* or Sony*. If you don’t

already have one, institute a regimen of regular internal security audits to catch issues early on

and assure data integrity. Make data security a corporate priority.

 Build systems that fully respect and guard shopper privacy, that give them opt-in control over

how their data is used, and that allow them to remain anonymous if they so desire. Violate the

social contract at your peril.

 Clearly articulate value to the shopper in tracking their behavior and be sure you deliver real

value in return that gives shoppers a clear reason to opt in. Quid pro quo strategies will win.

72

 Consider adding identity theft indemnification to your offering as a way to boost and sustain

trust with shoppers. As personal data gathering becomes more commonplace, brands that stand

behind an indemnification and remediation guarantee will probably benefit from increased

customer loyalty and trust.

 Determine your data sharing strategy. If it makes sense to your business, build strategic

partnerships with other retailers or data brokers, and determine appropriate, secure

mechanisms needed to share data in a way that fully guards privacy. And before you share

anything with anyone else, ensure you have shopper’s consent. Again, helping them understand

the value of sharing their data may be a good strategy here.

 Determine your strategy for data ownership – philosophically and practically, should you own it,

or should some other provider gather and own your data? In some ways, data is destiny. There

are legitimate arguments for and against allowing others to gather and own shopper data in

return for you having a reduced upfront CapEx outlay. But be sure you know what you’re doing

before you make that leap. It may be the smartest business move you make, or you may be

signing a deal with the devil.

 Determine your strategy for data retention – how long will you keep customer records? This will

be determined by local regulations in some markets, notably the European Union.

Shopper of one

 Unify your in-store and online shopping experiences and align all your systems so that

customers feel one seamless experience that traverses multiple channels. This includes having a

single unified inventory.

 Make your life easier: Deploy IT solutions that offer a single view of the shopper across the

enterprise. Build an accurate understanding of shoppers and unify customer data from both

online and offline sources.

 Deliver consistent messages and maintain two-way conversations with your shoppers that

seamlessly span the shopper journey: physical store and all digital device types (PC, tablet,

phone, wearables) without creating any friction for shoppers.

Above all, be bold. Retail is exciting, it’s competitive, and it’s ever-changing. And the technology

available to you in the next decade, indeed in the next year, is going to provide you with incredible

opportunity. But that same technology will also be available to your competitors.

If you need something to help you remember the main things to enact to get you started on the next leg

of the retailer’s journey it’s this:

Be ready to sell smart products AND services, in smart stores, that gather vital data you need

to improve operations, deliver a competitive shopping experience, and maximize your profits.

And be ready for the sharing economy to come to your door, tomorrow.

And if you feel in need of a little further inspiration please take a peek at the more distant future in our

next section.

Above all, good luck.

73

9 RETAIL 2030: A VISION FOR THE FUTURE OF SHOPPING

The ideas explored in the retail futurecasting session illuminated an exciting array of possibilities for the

future of retail. In isolation, each idea is compelling. But put them together and the opportunities to

create incredible new value, amazing new experiences for shoppers, and to totally remake the face of

retail are truly compelling.

Imagine the world in 2030. Billions of people are living in busy, vibrant, crowded cities. Many people still

living in more rural areas but they are increasingly connected to the wider world through technology.

What will the retail landscape in this world look like? What will it feel like?