SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Personalized Digital Retail Experience
SUMMARY: Describes a seamless digital shopping experience where a customer selects, customizes, and purchases clothing and luggage through voice commands, biometric payments, and smart home integration.
KEYWORDS: digital retail, personalization, voice commands, biometric payments, smart home integration
---

loved so much. If only they weren’t going to put a such a big dent in her bank account.

“What do you think, honey? I love it, but I’m not sure it’s worth it”. She then held up her arm to halt the

recording and said, “Send to Eric”. Susie’s device negotiated with the Blűmstrom computer system to

give it one time access to Eric’s email address using a tokenized privacy scheme and the message was

sent as a 3D video.

Eric received the video package from Blűmstrom on his device. He was able to see Susie’s video

alongside details of each of the clothing items she was wearing. He replied that she looked great, but

that given the expense it might be better to wait until the outfit was on sale. Susie was disappointed but

agreed and went with a couple of other less expensive items instead.

Knowing that Susie’s birthday was coming up next month, Eric decided to surprise her. He ordered the

outfit, had it gift-wrapped and scheduled for delivery all with one simple voice command on his device,

75

“Buy it and ship it for Susie’s birthday”. His device understood what he wanted, who Susie was, when

Susie’s birthday was, what items he was referring to, and placed the order. Blűmstrom handled the

billing, wrapped the gift in paper that Susie would love (based on the color and taste profile they had

compiled on her), and shipped it by drone two weeks later. It arrived on Susie’s birthday at a time it

knew she’d be home. All ready for their trip to Barcelona!

Back in the VIP fitting room, Susie eventually settled on the items she liked and paid for them with her

FacePrint and a simple voice command “Buy. Confirm.”

Now she needed a suitcase. She and her friends made their way to the travel department and enjoyed a

fun fifteen minutes designing Susie’s new luggage. Using a gorgeous 3D display, touch, gesture and

voice, Susie built her suitcase and personalized it to her specifications. A virtual shopping assistant

guided her through the process and the suitcase took shape in 3D before them as she shaped it to her

specifications. She selected a sturdy fabric-covered plastic construction, chose the size, selected a 4-

wheel design, and added an extra interior pocket to hold another pair of shoes. She and her friends had

fun choosing the exterior colors, and Susie even added a personal photo covering the lid of the case. It

was one that Eric had taken in Italy last year and she loved it. There was no way she would grab the

wrong suitcase on the carousel any more! The system reminded her that the carry-on bag she had

designed was slightly too large for International travel and offered to slightly reconfigure the dimensions

automatically if she wanted use it for global travel. “Yes please”, said Susie.

When she was happy with her design, Susie paid with FacePrint and gave authorization for Blűmstrom to

have temporary access to the trunk of her car.

While Susie and her friends enjoyed another glass of wine together in the Blűmstrom Bistro & Café, her

luggage was made to her specifications using a combination of 3D printing, robot construction, and

human labor. The finished product was inspected for quality, packaged, and then loaded into the trunk

of Susie’s car. Simply following directions in the display of his glasses, a Blűmstrom employee was

guided to Susie’s car in the parking lot. As he approached, the one-time security access code she had

granted to Blűmstrom opened the trunk (but not the doors to the car cabin) and he was able to securely

place the new suitcase inside.

Susie waved goodbye to her friends and hopped into her car. She still had one more shopping mission to

complete before she could go home.

“Take me to Electronics Warehouse”, she said.

Her car calculated the route to the EW that was nearest to the route home and pulled gently out of the

Blűmstrom’s parking lot. As she sped safely to EW, Susie’s thoughts turned to her grandmother.

Grandma Kaye lived alone in a small, fishing village in Southern Ireland and Susie knew that she loved to

be in the garden, though some of the heavier garden tasks were a bit much for her these days. A

GardenBot would be a wonderful help and she’d been meaning to get one for her for some time.

The screen in Susie’s car suddenly lit up. An incoming call. “Hello?” she said to trigger the auto-answer.

A friend was in town and had some time to spare due to a delayed flight. “Can I come by for a visit

later?” What a lovely surprise! Susie was thrilled to have a chance to spend some time with her old pal,

Meg, even if it was going to be just an hour or so. She agreed to meet her in half an hour and closed the

video call. Yikes, she didn’t have any food in!

76

Susie spoke to her device, “BuySmart, I need some cheese and crackers for two people”.

“Certainly, Susie. What about some wine to go with it?”

“Sure, what Pinot’s do you have?”

“I can get you a Domaine Serene Evenstad Reserve for $15 discount.”

“OK, let’s do it. Deliver in one hour. End.”

The BuySmart service selected a nice slice of brie and a chunk of gouda, cheeses Susie bought regularly,

and included a new blue cheese from Oregon that it calculated she also might like. It also selected

crackers that would go with the cheese that were made by a brand Susie trusted. As a loyal customer, it

also threw in some Quince paste as a nice surprise. It would help that Oregon blue go down nicely. The

items were picked and packed and delivered to Susie’s home by drone in chilled, secure hutch that was

left at her door.