SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Digital Transformation in Retail
SUMMARY: The text discusses how the sharing economy and technological innovations are transforming production, distribution, and consumption in the retail industry.
KEYWORDS: sharing economy, digital transformation, retail industry, business models, efficiency
---

consumption itself is becoming more efficient. This could obviously have profound implications for

retailers and manufacturers.

The sharing economy is creating extraordinary new value at lightning speed, and disrupting whole

industries segments in the process. Consider Uber*, Lyft*, Car2Go*, Sidecar* and RelayRides* versus the

traditional taxi, town car, and limousine industry as a primary example. A wide range of startups are

taking aim at the rapidly emerging market for renting, bartering, loaning and sharing products and

resources of all kinds. And they are finding plenty of VC money. These companies are building new

business models that take products and turn them into services. Why buy clothing when you can have a

‘wardrobe as a service’? Many of us are already comfortable with ‘music as a service’, and in some cases

a ‘car as a service’. Why not everything else?

To understand how big this looming change might be it’s helpful to look back and consider the impact

that technological and business innovation has historically had upon production and distribution.

6.5.1 Massive efficiency already applied to production and distribution

Starting in the 18th century, the industrial revolution brought incredible efficiencies to production. Major

technological breakthroughs included mechanization, steam engines, automation, electricity, hydraulics,

and ultimately robotics. These made manufacturing vastly more efficient, boosted productivity, and

massively reduced the cost of goods. Parallel business process innovations like mass production

techniques, outsourcing, and specialization boosted production efficiency even further.

The late 19th century saw the beginning of a major revolution in retail as innovation in both technology

and business processes brought huge efficiency to the distribution of goods. The emergence of branding

and packaged goods shifted stores from a full-service to a mostly self-service model: Grabbing a bag of

ground coffee from a supermarket shelf is more efficient than waiting for a shopkeeper to climb a ladder,

find the coffee drawer, and then weigh out and bag a pound of coffee for you. Logistics networks now

speed goods between manufacturers and retailers, and ultimately to consumers. And more recently the

48

Internet, mobile technology, and e-commerce have proven very efficient as new tools to connect

manufacturers with shoppers. Supply chains and inventory have been streamlined using successive

waves of automation and information technology.

With serious efficiencies brought to production and distribution, we are now starting to see technology

and business innovation applied to improving the efficiency of consumption itself. Hey presto, the

sharing economy, where high-value or rarely used items are used in much more efficient and sustainable

ways, and products are being turned into services. However, the sharing economy is unlikely to stop

here, but could spread to many other sectors of the economy, including lower-value and more common

items.

This sharing economy is made possible by an underlying root of trust founded in digital technology. For

sharing to work strangers must be able to find each other and then come together successfully as buyers

and sellers (or renters and loaners) to conduct safe, secure transactions. Underpinning this revolution is

the digitization of both trust and reputation itself.

6.5.2 Digital reputation and trust

A person using the AirBNB* room and house sharing service isn’t going to want to stay in the home of a

known murderer of tenants. Similarly, someone sharing a room in their home via AirBNB wants to have

some level of confidence that their guest will be respectful, pay their bill, and not cause any damage.

Trust and reputation are vital to the smooth function of marketplaces. Companies like EBay* recognized

this early on and created reputation management systems that enabled buyers and sellers to earn a

digital reputation on their site. Similarly, companies building businesses around the sharing economy are

using digital reputation and trust to help their customers feel confident about using their services.

By digitizing trust, computing technology is acting as the vital economic lubricant needed to enable the

sharing economy where people share, barter, rent, or loan products in a peer-to-peer manner,

bypassing traditional retail and distribution networks. The result: the sharing economy has already

brought huge efficiencies to consumption.

Sharing is particularly attractive to Millennials, not just because it gives them a potentially better deal on

a product, but because they feel it make more efficient use of expensive resources—this could be

financial expense, environmental expense, or both.

For example, most cars in America are driven just 54 minutes per day. That means they spend over 23

hours out of every day doing nothing. Why own a car if you could easily just rent one whenever you

need one? Companies already exist serving this need in some markets: Zipcar* rents cars by the hour

and companies like Mercedes* Car2Go* event rent cars by the minute. For car owners, companies exist

that allow you to monetize your expensive resource when you’re not using it yourself. For example,

FlightCar* allows people to rent their car to others when they leave it at the airport for a trip.

According to The Cassandra Report, 37% of US Millennials say that they want to rent expensive items

rather than buy them. The big open question: is this an economic reality of Millennials’ current

economic status and buying power, or a more savvy consumption ethos that will translate to long term

changes in shopper behavior? And are retailers willing to bet their businesses on one outcome versus

the other?

49

6.5.3 From ownership to access

Some shoppers are now more interested in merely having access to a product rather than ever owning it.

Consider the tectonic shift underway in music consumption, from ownership (CDs and iTunes*) to access

(streaming music services like Spotify*, Rdio*, and iTunes Radio*). In a survey by The Cassandra Report,

over a third of US Millennials reported that they would prefer to pay full price to access a product,

rather than own it. For older readers of this report, this finding may be jarring or perhaps even sound

unbelievable. But it illustrates a fundamental difference in attitudes around ownership between