SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Trends and Innovations
SUMMARY: Retail industry must adapt to changing customer needs, leverage technology, and build trust to remain competitive.
KEYWORDS: retail trends, customer-centric, technology innovation, trust and data, customization
---

Trend Retail imperative

Compute will enable us to add intelligence into Need to ensure control still remains in the hands

anything and everything of the shopper and that we are solving a

customer need/pain point and not just using

technology for technology’s sake

Trust is becoming digitized and value is being Retailers must build and protect trust with

created by refining data into wisdom shoppers

Shoppers, particularly Millennials, want more Retailers will need to offer customized or

customized products customizable solutions, accessed via easy

interfaces, and use them to upsell customers

Some shoppers prefer access to things rather Retailers can lease as well as sell things, they

than to purchase them could act as a reputation management system for

resold goods, and could provide an

indemnification service as a value add

Millennials have a strong desire for efficiency Retailers should build experimental stores with

no checkouts, or totally automated stores using

RFID or vision data to manage inventory and

perform automatic checkout

Shift from supplier control to customer focus Retailers must put the customer at the center

and obsess over what’s right for customers, not

what serves suppliers best

82

Technology can make a bricks and mortar store Innovate internally and outsource for speed

more efficient

Routine shopping is primarily done on autopilot; Better understand value proposition and needs

shoppers don’t want to be bothered while across categories; enhance the shopping

shopping experience for more engaging categories and

automate the “commodity” categories

Product proliferation in bricks & mortar has made Pursue a long-term strategy to “get off the drug”

making choices very difficult and have greater focus on the shopper

Stores are polarizing their business models: Understand the customer using data, build

efficient on one end, experiential on the other responsive stores, invest in frictionless

experiences, and invest in quality of staff

You will see these trends, and others like them from the futurecasting process, show up throughout the

body of this futurecasting report.

10.3 FUTURECASTING – MODELING THE FUTURE AROUND PEOPLE

As a vehicle to building out models of the future, teams then created imagined personas of people living

in the year 2024. These personas spanned a range of ages, socio-economic backgrounds, outlooks,

lifestyles and geographic locations. Each team then brainstormed a set of new shopping experiences

that might be of interest to their persona, using the trend synthesis as a basis for exploration.

A sample scenario is listed below as an example of a set of experiences being imagined by one of the

futurecasting teams:

 In a dense urban environment of the future, circa 2025, Alexandria and her husband live in a

newly-constructed smart apartment building in Mexico City.

 Intelligent shelves are deployed in their home pantry that use a combination of RFID and visual

recognition technology to identify items. The shelf can measure and securely report inventory of

products stored in each home. An intelligent fridge is fitted with similar capabilities.

 Alexandria’s personal home inventory feeds into a recipe recommendation system. It offers

meal choices and also suggests shopping lists.

 Real-time inventory rolls up to provide an overall picture of neighborhood inventory levels. A

“Friendly neighbor” service helps Alexandria get the ingredients needed for her next meal. It

alerts her to ingredients she doesn’t have but that a neighbor does have and hasn’t used, and

facilitates the request to move an item from their home to hers (and handles cross-billing).

 Intelligent shelves in Alexandria’s local store (which is conveniently built into the base of her

tower block) are able to determine when a product is removed, and who removed it (and then

bill appropriately) providing a frictionless way for Alexandria and her husband to purchase items

they need.

 A membership program for the local store securely stores people’s consumption information

and uses analytics to predict future consumption of members based on real-time usage

(gathered from the store, the pantry, and the fridge) and ensures desired items, even if they are

what would formerly have been considered unusual purchases, are in stock as often as possible.

Alexandria is delighted as this means her local store nearly always has the particular brand of

cured meat her Colombian husband likes so much.

83

 Secure links into Alexandria and her husbands’ calendars improve the accuracy of the

neighborhood consumption prediction analytics by knowing when they are away.

 Alongside physical products, the local store includes attractive and interactive virtual spaces that

enable Alexandria to browse online services and products she can order easily for delivery. The

online shopping experience is seamlessly integrated alongside the physical product displays to

create a fluid shopping experience where the physical and virtual blur.

 The local store acts as an aggregation hub for packages Alexandria has ordered and that are

delivered next day or sometimes next hour by online vendors. Her neighbor has invested in a

butler’s hatch for their apartment and has the store deliver packages and goods directly into her

home but Alexandria hasn’t got around to that yet.

 The store has embraced the sharing economy and manages a set of shared community items

including a carpet cleaner, toolbox, and a couple of cars. It has both an online and in-store

dashboard showing availability of these shared items and enabling shoppers to make

reservations.

 In addition to renting “do it yourself” community items like tools and cleaning equipment,

Alexandria’s local store has a portal that enables her to schedule a range of household services

such as cleaning, repairs, and babysitting. As a member of her local store club she has access to

a broad ecosystem of local service providers who give her preferred rates and service levels

negotiated through group bargaining.

10.4 BACKCASTING

The backcasting process is a way to figure out the interim steps that are needed in order for an imagined

future to become true. The result is a set of concrete actions that need to be taken at various times