SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Smart Home Integration
SUMMARY: The text discusses a smart, connected recipe system that integrates with a tiered shelving system to suggest menus and locate ingredients in the home and nearby locations.
KEYWORDS: smart shelf, recipe system, tiered shelving, home inventory, ingredient availability
---

know that neighbor Alice has seven and

probably won’t eat them all, facilitate a

request, and even handle cross-billing so that

Alice got paid for her onion.

A smart, connected recipe system connected

into this tiered shelving system could suggest

menus optimized around the ingredients

available in the home, but also point out the

availability of needed ingredients in other

locations, including neighbor’s homes. For

example, a smart, connected recipe might

look something like the illustration here.

65

The initial idea for this tiered model was generated out of the futurecasting session where it was

explored via a futurecasting scenario and a science fiction prototype. These are covered in section 10.3

and section 10.5 of this report, respectively. This futurecasting scenario combines shelf intelligence in

the home, an intelligent local store, and online capability to deliver an experience that puts the shopper

at the center.

A model like this is perhaps the ultimate integration level for the smart shelf where a network of

intelligent infrastructure—spanning home, store and online—can optimize for efficiency at the system

level, and also create exciting new value by delivering a set of new shopper-centric services.

Note: For those in the computing business, this approach is akin to a caching architecture with a

cascading storage hierarchy. In computing, memory caches are used to try and feed the processor with

all the data it needs, as fast as it needs it. It does this using intelligent caching algorithms to predict what

data to keep in the closest, fastest memory. If we consider retail distribution as a similar network with a

storage hierarchy, we can imagine the need for predictive algorithms to analyze usage and optimize the

chances of customers finding the items they need in stock, whether that be in their pantry (L1 cache)

their local store (L2 cache), or at the hypermarket (L3 cache).

66

A solution such as this might be of particular interest to a retirement community living in an urban

environment where mobility is more limited and convenience is even more prized.

Challenge: Major retailers should start thinking more broadly about infrastructure deployments and

partner with others to deliver much greater value to shoppers and to society at large. Rather than limit

the scope of their thinking to the infrastructure in their own stores they might consider engaging in

partnerships with others to imagine and deploy system-level networks of smart infrastructure that

improve efficiency and deliver new experiences for people. Partners could include suppliers, architects,

builders, city planners, and logistics companies.

7.10 SMART SHELF BUSINESS MODELS

A wide variety of different business models could be built around the smart shelf. A few sample business

models that come to mind:

 An integrator builds a smart shelving solution (including all the back-end data analytics

capabilities) and sells it to a retailer. The retailer configures the system and deploys it in a way

that delivers a highly differentiated shopper experience, boosting their revenue and margins.

 The retailer leases a smart shelving solution from a supplier, who becomes their business

partner. The retailer generates revenue streams by selling a range of services to manufacturers.

These might include shopper analytics services (foot traffic, demographics), the provisioning of

customized offers to shoppers, on-shelf advertising, dynamic pricing, and other services. The

supplier and the retailer share revenue from these services as part of their business relationship.

 Manufacturers fund, develop, and deploy smart shelving in their retailers’ stores. Retailers gain

insight into a subset of the data gathered by the shelves to help them optimize their operations,

but data is mostly gathered in service of manufacturer needs and manufacturers own the data.

Some shopper-facing capabilities are paid for by the manufacturer to boost sales or their

products, increasing revenue and margins for both retailers and manufacturers.

Retailers may choose to own their own smart shelves (and the data that they gather), they may choose

to rent ‘smart shelves as a service’, or they may choose to cede the opportunity to a third party who

offers ‘free’ or subsidized hardware in return for gaining ownership of the data this infrastructure

gathers. This latter approach would be similar to the model Google* offers when it gives away ‘free’

Android software, or ‘free’ email services.

Any number of business models could be used to bring smart shelves into retail. The key business

questions are around who pays for deployment, how they pay, and why they will pay. So long as the

deployment creates adequate value for those involved, business models will emerge that will fuel these

installations.

Challenge: Designers developing smart shelves will need to consider the best way to monetize the value

that they are creating for retailers, manufacturers, and shoppers.

Challenge: When determining their business strategy around smart infrastructure retailers should

consider it as part of their wider data strategy. The short-term appeal of ‘free’ hardware offered by a

data company may not give the retailer the long-term control over their destiny that would be afforded

by maintaining ownership of shopper data gathered in the store. For more on this topic read section 5.4.

67

8 SUMMARY AND NEXT STEPS

The Second era of Digital Retail is already here.

Retailers that embrace the possibilities presented by digital retail technologies will be able to ride a

sustained wave of innovation that will carry them through the coming decades. They will gain significant

competitive advantage by vastly improving the customer experience, and delivering better quality

insights and more targeted selling to the manufacturers they serve.

As the physical and digital worlds collide in retail, the smart store and all the data it gathers will form the

core of the value proposition computing brings to the shopping experience. The smart shelf will need a

variety of different features and capabilities so it can handle all the different tasks and usages retailers

throw its way.

A decade from now, the winners in retail will be those that invest in building personalized shopping