SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Digital Retail Transformation
SUMMARY: The rise of ubiquitous computing and smart products will have profound implications for the retail industry, enabling new business models and personalized services.
KEYWORDS: ubiquitous computing, smart products, digital retail, business models, personalization
---

on earth in the early 1980s. Moore’s Law will continue to deliver cheaper, smaller, more powerful

computers for the foreseeable future, leading to the era of ubiquitous computing. This continued

change has profound implications for the products that retailers will sell, and how they will sell them.

In the era of ubiquitous computing (which you may also hear referred to as the Internet of things, the

Internet of Everything, or other similar terms) meaningful amounts of computing—computing that’s

powerful enough to do something fairly useful—will become so small, so low cost, and consume so little

energy that we can consider turning anything into a computer. Smart products, smart stores, smart

delivery trucks, smart packaging….you name it, if there’s value in it being intelligent, it eventually will be.

40

6.1.1 Smart everything

This implies that within roughly a decade, any object can be made smart. Anything in our world can

have a tiny computer embedded inside it. As well as being smart, that object can become connected to

the Internet, and also sense the world around it. This is a profound change for humanity. Not only will

objects become smart, but so will our environment and infrastructure.

Smart cars will navigate down smart streets in smart cities. Smart toys, boxed inside smart packaging,

will be delivered by smart trucks to smart stores. And throughout this smart world, the smart things will

be sensing and generating data that is uploaded via the Internet to giant computers that monitor and

process that data to optimize efficiency and deliver valuable insights to retailers and manufacturers.

Often these insights will be used to create new value and to deliver new, personalized services that

generate incremental revenue.

When you receive an expensive bottle of wine, it should ship in smart packaging that tells you if it has

been properly handled on its way to you. Was it shipped in a container at the correct temperature and

humidity? Was it dropped? If so, who dropped it and how hard did it hit the ground? Did the packaging

properly protect the bottle, and how could it be better-designed in the future?

Making an object smart changes its utility and potentially creates incremental value. A teddy bear that

can read a book to a child is clearly worth more to some people than a dumb teddy bear that does not.

And a purse that can report its location when stolen might be an attractive proposition that shoppers

are willing to pay more for.

Challenge: Retailers will need to embrace creative thinking as they imagine new smart, connected

products. They should partner with manufacturers now to start imagining and demanding these smart

products of the future.

6.1.2 Smart objects enable new business models

Making a product smart doesn’t just potentially make it more valuable and increase its utility. It also

enables retailers and manufacturers to monetize products in new ways. Making a product smart can

essentially turn it from being just a product, into being product as a service.

Consider the smart teddy bear mentioned above. A toy manufacturer that develops and sells such a

product a few years from now will have multiple ways to monetize the value they have created. They

could sell the bear for a one time price of $79.99. Or they could sell the bear for $34.99, and then sell

parents a book-reading service for $5/month.

In emerging markets where incomes are low and high initial prices are a barrier to purchase,

manufacturers could use this same approach to activate products for a monthly fee rather than charging

an upfront price, reducing the barriers to ownership. In Africa, India, Southeast Asia and parts of Latin

America, pay-as-you-go services are largely the norm and consumer expectations would be highly

consistent with this product as a service approach.

41

Challenge: Retailers and manufacturers will need to embrace risk-taking as they brainstorm new ways to

monetize the smart products they will be soon be selling. They will need to consider bold new ways to

wrap revenue-generating, value-added services around these smart objects. New business models will

allow retailers to target new customers in new ways and enable the creation of annuities that generate

ongoing revenue streams. This will increase profitability and boost income for manufacturers and

retailers alike.

6.1.3 Wearables will transform customer service

Tiny computers will also usher in the era of wearable computing. These hands-free, click-free computers,

whether in the form of smart glasses, in-ear computers, wrist-based computing, or other form factors,

could help sales assistants through the sales process and enable them to deliver improved customer

service. Such sales support systems are attractive in an era of fast-changing product portfolios and high

staff turnover. Hay Group reports that median retail staff turnover for part-time labor is 67%, though it

varies dramatically by retailer.

Wearables could use a combination of visual recognition, speech recognition, and other sensors to help

assistants more efficiently assist shoppers. For example, when a shopper asks, “Which of these slow

cookers has a timer function?” the sales assistant could near-instantly be presented with a filtered list

and guide the shopper to the appropriate products. Or the query “Is this dress available in a size 8?”

could be ‘heard’ and understood by the wearable device that then triggers an automated stock check

that presents the shop assistant with the information they need to respond, for example “I have some in

another store and can have it shipped and waiting for you to try on when you get home.”

Challenge: Retailers should begin experimentation with wearable technology and devise strategies to

complement the capabilities of their existing human sales teams with real-time, data-driven insights that

help them deliver better customer service.

Computing technology worn by shoppers is also an opportunity to transform the customer experience.

While 80% of US consumers currently have privacy concerns over wearable technology, half of those

same consumers would be willing to share personal data collected from their wearable devices with