SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Strategy and Technology
SUMMARY: Retailers must adapt to changing customer shopping habits, optimize their store and channel portfolio, and prioritize security and trust to meet customer expectations.
KEYWORDS: customer behavior, store/channel strategy, data security, personalization, brand trust
---

22

Challenge: Retailers will need to fit in with the new rituals and routines of the changing customer and

understand the difference between ‘fast’ and ‘slow’ shopping missions. They will need to figure out how

to best meet customers’ expectations for each of these missions, and then what products, services,

formats and channels they need to meet the relevant shopping missions in their sector. They will need

to build adaptable in-store experience flows that enable shoppers to select their mode of engagement

based on which shopping state they are currently in. A shopper may be in ‘slow’ mode one minute, and

‘fast’ mode the very next, or visa versa.

Challenge: Based on their strategic focus and product category, retailers will need to appropriately

rebalance their store and channel portfolio over time. With long leases, this will be a slow process. And

retailers will need to find ways to reallocate space to boost the experience for shoppers. One big UK

grocer has already stated they will no longer be building any new large stores, and will in future

exclusively invest in smaller, in-city stores and their online retail and delivery capability. They are also

using space in their bigger stores for restaurants and coffee shops to create more of a destination

experience.

4.2.4 Security and trust

Fundamentally, shopping is about trust: Trust that value-exchanges will be fair, that transactions are

secure, that products will be of expected quality, that the shopping environment is safe, and that all

normal social contracts will be respected. A brand stands for all of these things, and when any of these

are violated, they hurt brand value. That can translate into massive destruction of value.

Retail brands remain at high risk. You need only look at what befell Target* to understand the impact a

security breach can have on customer confidence and trust. Target has paid a heavy price. Their data

breach in December 2013 wiped roughly $5 billion off their market cap and plunged earnings 46% the

next quarter.

Challenge: Shoppers are demanding the level of personalization that only the collection and analysis of

personal data will deliver. Retailers have little choice but to embrace data collection. As retailers deploy

technology to gather more and more data on shoppers, they will need to ensure they apply appropriate

focus and resources to guard shopper’s privacy and secure their personal data. In a landscape of heavy

competition, a security breach that leads to a puncturing of customer loyalty could be fatal.

Challenge: Retailers will need to embrace robust end-to-end security for all their data, including data

related to financial transactions, loyalty program systems, and personal data gathered on consumers.

Tokenized security systems with high encryption and hardware-based security will significantly

outperform software-only security solutions. Retailers will need to consider a regimen of regular internal

security audits to catch issues early on and assure data integrity.

Recommendation: Retailers may also consider adding identity theft indemnification to their offering as

a way to boost and sustain trust with shoppers. Target had to do this after the fact to try and mitigate

their security breach of 2013, offering shoppers a free year of identity protection services as a way to

woo back shoppers. As personal data gathering becomes more commonplace, brands that stand behind

an indemnification and remediation guarantee will probably benefit from increased customer loyalty

and trust.

23

4.2.5 Oversupply

Retailers are not just facing a scenario where they have stores that are too big, and not in the right

places. In most mature markets shoppers are oversupplied by the number of retailers they have to

choose from. Shops are abundant. Brands are abundant and even confusingly abundant. The retail

sector is saturated and the goal for retailers has now become to steal market segment share away from

competitors rather than to drive overall growth for the retail sector.

Differentiation in this era becomes critical, and those that embrace the second era of digital retail will

find many potential avenues for differentiation.

4.2.6 Inefficiency

The retail model today is innately inefficient, particularly in sectors like grocery. For example, in a typical

grocery store a vast amount of space is devoted to ‘dark’ retail, hosting rarely purchased products that

enjoy very little traffic. For shoppers, the purchase experience can feel inefficient and even painful as

they hunt to find the few products they need. They must navigate past a very long, low tail of items that

represents only a very small fraction of store sales. In a grocery store, according to shopperscientist.com,

the top 500 items (out of 35-40,000 line items in the average store) represent one third of all sales. The

top 1000 is 42% of sales. The others are there to give the shopper a feeling of choice and abundance and

to attract them to the store. From an efficiency perspective, some of these items might better be served

via the online channel once delivery is able to meet consumers need for immediacy (see section 6.7).

There is good news about the shift towards smaller, local stores. Using technology to deliver new

formats and virtual spaces (as in the Hointer* and Adidas* examples above) could lead to a potential

reduction in real-estate rental costs, improved productivity, and increased sales per square foot (or

meter). In smaller stores, shoppers visit a higher percentage of the displays and shelves in the store,

making that space potentially more efficient for the retailer. According to WPP, the average number of

displays visited in small supermarkets is 33% versus close to 10% in a larger super center like a CostCo*

or a Walmart*.

Technology will also boost brick and mortar retail efficiency. Many low value-added manual processes

will become automated by leveraging mobile, IOT, robotic, and other technologies. This will free labor to

be more customer-facing, further improving the customer experience and differentiating retailers versus

their competition. This implies that retailers will need to invest in the quality of their staff as retail labor

is more focused towards delivering highly-differentiated customer service.