SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Delivery Network Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses how delivery networks are undergoing technology and business innovations that could disrupt traditional retail and strengthen online retail.
KEYWORDS: delivery network, delivery innovation, online retail, traditional retail, transportation infrastructure
---

See section 4.2.4 for discussion on the security and privacy implications for handling all the personal

data that such membership schemes would generate.

6.7 DELIVERY NETWORK DISRUPTION WILL FURTHER STRENGTHEN ONLINE

High-speed delivery could totally tip the balance in the battle between traditional and online retail.

Online retailers are keen to remove one of the final major barriers to buying from them—lack of

immediacy.

Traditional retailers still have ‘immediacy’ as a major advantage when it comes to convenience

purchases and impulse buys. They are also still the obvious suppliers for goods with a short shelf life

such as fresh food and flowers.

But delivery networks are about to undergo both technology and business innovation. “Next hour”

delivery services are already emerging and may eventually become widespread. Traditional retailers

should watch closely for changes to delivery networks that could strip away one of their key advantages.

Challenge: Retailers should partner as needed with existing and emerging delivery providers to assure

they have a clear line of sight to high-speed delivery services as they become available.

53

A number of disruptive business and technology forces are at play that will affect the future of delivery:

 Algorithms fed by sensors will improve delivery efficiency - Fleet management, route

management, and truck packing algorithms will continue to improve. These will boost the

productivity, efficiency, and speed of existing delivery networks. They may also help improve the

accuracy of delivery windows encouraging more shoppers to seek home delivery.

 New peer-to-peer delivery networks will emerge and compete with the existing giants -

Companies like Uber* won’t just be satisfied disrupting the taxi business. Uber is already

experimenting with delivery services, including UberFRESH* for lunch delivery, and Uber Corner

Store* for on-demand delivery of convenience store staples.

 Public infrastructure – Municipalities wrestling with how to supply the megacities of the future

are already conducting delivery experiments using public infrastructure. Dedicated trains in

Japanese subways deliver goods as a way to remove delivery trucks from surface routes in major

cities. Subway trains removing waste will surely follow. Cities may seek ways to generate

additional revenue as a way to monetize existing transportation infrastructure and to justify

investment in future infrastructure, leading them to overlay delivery services on top of public

networks.

 Autonomous delivery vehicles and robots will slowly emerge – beyond autonomous cars lie

autonomous delivery vehicles, and beyond that robots and drones that can deliver packages the

final few meters from the curb. The speed of this transition from human labor to autonomous

machinery will more likely be set by social desires, public safety concerns, regulation, and labor

policy (and union power) than technological readiness. This will likely be a very slow, but socially

significant transition.

 Delivery drones may speed last mile or last ten meter delivery – once they have been adequately

tested and airspace has been cleared for their use, drones could deliver many of the smaller,

lighter weight items we need. This said, many regulatory and social hurdles still remain before

this becomes a reality. Several companies already have development programs in this area,

including Amazon*, UPS*, and Google*’s Project Wing. Drones could cut delivery times from

days to minutes, moving many impulse purchases from physical to online. Such a shift would

need to be considered against a broader conversation on sustainability, energy efficiency, public

safety, and the environment.

 Click and collect – Self-delivery is on the increase, mostly in Europe. Carrefour* in France has big

drive-through collection centers next to their hypermarket stores.

 Mobile stores – Auchan*, another major French retailer, has created 3000 mobile stores that go

to the places where they know their time-strapped customers will be: the parking lots of big

businesses, schools, churches etc.

To amortize the huge investment they are making in delivery infrastructure, will we see Amazon

eventually horizontalize their delivery offering and compete with existing players like FedEx* and UPS?

This strategy would be consistent with the way Amazon have monetized their other major infrastructure

investments, including offering compute, storage, merchandising, warehousing, and distribution as a

service.

54

Home delivery is clearly a growing trend. However, it is worth noting that home delivery is not a

panacea desired by everyone. For some it offers great convenience, but for others it can be the exact

opposite, mostly driven by inconvenient and unpredictable delivery windows.

Challenge: Retailers will need to ensure that they still have a strong brand proposition once immediacy

is stripped away as a differentiator versus online suppliers.

55

7 THE FUTURE OF THE SHELF

The smart shelf is an oft-mentioned fable of the retail future that to date has not made either financial

or business sense. In the next decade, the smart shelf will finally come of age, not as the garish, Vegas-

like display shelf imagined in the past, but as a vital data-gathering endpoint that is part of a broader

intelligent and sensing physical store.

7.1 DEFINING THE “SHELF”: SHELVES, RACKS, ROUNDERS, PEG BOARDS, END CAPS AND MORE

When we talk about a shelf, what are we talking about exactly? As the primary user interface of retail

for at least a couple of millennia, we have seen the shelf show up in a variety of forms: the shelf, the rail,

the end cap, the apparel rounder, and even virtual shelves on a digital sign. One could even think of an

Amazon product page as a shelf of sorts.

In this report, we will use the term “shelf” as a shorthand that is intended to encompass all these

various forms of product display. Shelves display wares to shoppers and try to entice them to buy.

Shelves also help facilitate the conversation between the manufacturer and the consumer. They help

the shopper to discover and experience the product, and often to see that product within the broader

context of other products and offers. And they help the manufacturer to move the customer towards a

purchase.

7.2 REDEFINING THE ROLE OF THE SHELF