SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Data Strategy
SUMMARY: Retailers face a choice between large upfront CapEx for data ownership or ongoing OpEx for third-party data analytics services, and must carefully consider their data strategy's long-term implications.
KEYWORDS: data ownership, CapEx vs. OpEx, data as a commodity, long-term investment horizons, retail digital evolution
---

of control, and a discussion of whether manufacturers and retailers want to pay for this type of

capability out of their CapEx or OpEx budgets. Retailers face two main options here:

Option one: Big CapEx up front, and ownership of the data.

Option two: Give the opportunity to a third party that collects and analyzes the data, and then

pay for analytics services on a monthly basis.

Challenge: Retailers will need to determine their data ownership strategy. In a world where data is the

new oil, data is a commodity that is vital to the function of the new economy. Just as in the oil business

where a company willing to do the dirty work of extracting oil from the ground is then in the luxurious

position of being able to refine it and turn it into money-making gasoline, those companies that gather

and own data will have the ability to analyze (refine) it and turn it into money-making insights that they

can either use to gain competitive advantage, or that they can sell to others. Retailers should think

carefully before embarking on a strategy that gives up data in return for “free” or subsidized equipment.

In some cases, this may make good sense. But retailers should ensure they do so with eyes wide open.

Oil companies make good money for a reason. Data is more valuable than most businesses have yet

realized.

Either way, manufacturers and retailers will pay somehow. And they will make these investments

because this refined data will offer incredible value, both to them and to their customers.

5.5 RETAIL INVESTMENT HORIZONS WILL NEED TO LENGTHEN

Other than having to deal with long-term real estate lease agreements, retailers have historically

enjoyed very short-term planning horizons when compared to many other sectors such as construction,

healthcare, or transportation.

38

Investment timeframes measurable in years are hard to comprehend when stores are focused on

takings for the week, designers are scrambling to decide what the new line will be three months from

now, and cutthroat competition keeps retailers focused on competitors on a daily or hourly basis.

Challenge: To maintain their competitiveness in the second era of digital retail, retailers will need to

lengthen their investment horizons and take a much longer term view of their future. The retail

evolution that’s coming will take multiple years to build out. Success will require strategic investments

be planned, executed, and managed over multi-year timeframes. Retailers will need to think of their

return on investment over much longer periods, perhaps five or ten years. Those retailers that have a

strong vision for their brand and their brand proposition, that are brave enough to set their course, and

that invest for the long haul to build out the customer experience will prevail. And the sooner they start,

the sooner they will reap benefit, and the farther they will be ahead of their competition.

5.6 STANDARDS FOR DATA, ANALYTICS, AND SMART INFRASTRUCTURE WILL EMERGE

Proprietary, vertical solutions will eventually yield to lower-cost solutions based on open standards and

horizontal building blocks.

The industry will need to define standard interfaces and a set of open application programming

interfaces (APIs) that enable developers to collaborate with each other across standardized platforms.

Most every aspect of the smart shelf will benefit from standardization at some level. For example,

content delivery will benefit from standard screen sizes, formats and resolutions for on-shelf advertising.

And as store elements become smart and connected they will need to share data in standard formats

using standard communication protocols.

This will enable developers to bring waves of rapid innovation to the retail sector.

Challenge: Retailers should look for open source analytics engines, standards-based networking, storage

and computing, and an open set of APIs in any deployment they embark upon.

Challenge: Retailers will need to take risks and may need to start deploying new technology in stores

before industry standards have fully emerged. Waiting is not usually a good option. Those retailers that

invest early and forge the path using more vertical and perhaps even semi-proprietary approaches will

gain early-mover advantage. They will learn what works and what doesn’t, and be on their second and

third generation deployments before slower competitors have even begun. Smart retailers will invest

early, experiment, fail fast, learn quickly, and will be willing to modify or switch deployment strategies

on a dime. Once standards fully emerge they will move to open platforms that give them access to an

ecosystem of developers and service providers. This will enable them to add exciting new functionality

over time, and do so in a modular way that keeps costs under control.

39

6 DISRUPTIVE FORCES ON THE HORIZON

6.1 DIGITAL EVERYTHING

Moore’s Law reduces the size and cost of computing year on year, while simultaneously increasing the

capability of computing. Over the last fifty years we have seen computers shrink from being gigantic

machines that filled an entire room, to bulky devices that sat on or under our desks, to today’s mobile

devices that fit in our pockets and purses.

Today’s leading edge chips are manufactured from many millions, sometimes billions of transistors, each

transistor just 22 nanometers across. A nanometer is one billionth of a meter. That’s pretty hard to

visualize, so here’s a helpful way to try and comprehend just how small these transistors are: 22

nanometer transistors are so small that 4000 of them would fit across the width of a single human hair.

These tiny transistors have enabled the IT industry to create small handheld computers that we carry

around with us (better known as smartphones) that are more powerful than all the computing available

on earth in the early 1980s. Moore’s Law will continue to deliver cheaper, smaller, more powerful

computers for the foreseeable future, leading to the era of ubiquitous computing. This continued

change has profound implications for the products that retailers will sell, and how they will sell them.