SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Digital Transformation in Retail
SUMMARY: The text discusses how digital technologies like Moore's Law have disrupted the media and publishing industry, and how a similar transformation is now underway in the retail sector.
KEYWORDS: digital transformation, retail disruption, technology impact, business models, consumer behavior
---

Law disrupts business models, businesses, and entire industries. In the media and publishing industry,

the computing performance delivered by Moore’s Law was enough to trigger a series of powerful

breakthroughs that remade the entire industry, from production to distribution to consumption.

It started with media production. Steady advances in computing capability displaced typesetters in the

1980’s with desktop publishing. The impact of Moore’s Law then quickly spread to video editing, special

effects and computer animation (known as CGI) in the 1990’s. Increasing bandwidth and an

exponentially growing Internet remade media distribution in the 2000’s. And now nearly all media

production, distribution and consumption is transacted digitally.

Today, a five year old kid with a smartphone has the kind of production and distribution capabilities at

their disposal that a 1980’s media mogul would have envied. Moore’s Law has delivered an entire TV

production and broadcast facility in your pocket. Anyone with a digital device can shoot, edit, and

distribute high definition video content to every corner of the planet. In seconds.

Not only has this empowered everyone with new, exciting ways to communicate their ideas and their

passions, but it has also challenged existing forces in a giant industry sector. It has changed consumer

habits and expectations. It has removed middle men. It has obsoleted skills. It’s created new young

media stars that are able to make a small fortune literally creating content in their bedrooms. And it’s

made some people and companies irrelevant.

Disruption is not fun when you’re being disrupted.

15

There are interesting parallels between the media and retail sectors. Both involve production,

distribution, and consumption. So what can we learn from the impact of Moore’s Law in media?

3.2 RETAIL IS NEXT: MOORE’S LAW AND THE 2ND ERA OF DIGITAL RETAIL

Retail has already been touched by the digital revolution. Digitization has given us inventory systems

and supply chain management tools that optimized the relationship between manufacturers and

retailers. Digital point of sale terminals now speed financial transactions. And every retailer has at least

some online or e-commerce presence.

But retail now faces a second wave of digitization. And that second wave has already begun. This wave

will see a full-scale digitization of the face, bones, and brains of retail.

If the first era of digitization was characterized by supply chain management, inventory, and payment

systems, the second era of digital retail will be shaped by sensors, data analytics, robotics, natural

interfaces, and computing ubiquity. These will be used to improve the shopping experience by making it

more personal, more efficient, and more fun for consumers. This same technology will be used to

continually improve the operational efficiency of retail, to enable new business models, to maximize

revenue, and to speed fulfillment and delivery.

The exponential computing capabilities brought by Moore’s Law in the coming decade will enable a total

remake of the face of retail—the front of house experience that shoppers see and feel. Digital

technology will also change the bones behind that new face—including technology to deliver mass

customization, and to deliver products to shoppers in mere minutes.

16

In the coming decade, computing power will be available at price points that will enable the total

transformation of every element of retail. This is because Moore’s Law doesn’t just give you double the

computing capability every few years. It can also be used to deliver the same computing capability at

half the price, and half the power consumption. And that computing capability can be packaged inside

smaller and smaller spaces and places. It is this parallel ability of Moore’s Law to simultaneously make

computing intelligence more powerful, more affordable, and more compact that will disrupt retail in the

next decade.

3.3 MOORE’S LAW MAKES RETAIL SMART

Smart products will be sold in smart stores bristling with smart infrastructure. A plethora of sensors will

gather data on shoppers. This will enable retailers and manufacturers to delight shoppers with fully

customized shopping experiences and to shape investment decisions based on a deep understanding of

the customer.

Natural computing, powered by computers that can see, hear and understand the world around them,

will enable brands and retailers to hold new types of interactions with shoppers, and tell stories in new

ways. Wearable computing will help shop assistants to deliver much better customer service.

Drones and automated vehicles will speed delivery and boost convenience for impulse shopping. In-

store automation will improve customer service by freeing up more customer-facing labor; labor that

can enable human touch connections in bricks and mortar stores in a way that cannot be replicated

online.

Finally, huge computers will process vast amounts of data to generate both operational insight and also

detailed insights into individual shopper behavior. From this retailers and manufacturers will be able to

17

drive operational excellence, deliver increasingly improved service, and provide new personalized

experiences to shoppers.

The second era of digital retail is already in well underway. According to IDC, fully 10% of all IoT

(Internet of things) investment in 2013 was made in the retail sector. And by 2017 they estimate that

annual IoT investment by retailers will exceed $466 million. That’s a lot of sensors and smart

infrastructure being deployed in retail around the globe.

Current consumer desires in retail are way ahead of what retailers can deliver. But Moore’s Law is

coming to the rescue to help retailers close the gap.

Retailers should prepare themselves for as much innovation and disruption in their sector within the

next decade as media and publishing endured in the last three.

Such is the power of exponential change.

So brace yourselves. The second wave of digital retail is already upon us.

18

4 RETAIL SECTOR - TRENDS AND CHALLENGES

Retail sales represent about 18% of the US GDP, equivalent to $3 trillion in 2013, and rising to $4.1

trillion by 2020. At the same time, consumer spending patterns are shifting and their dollars are now

being attracted to other sectors—to healthcare, to services, and to other non-retail household spending.