SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Smart Retail Technology
SUMMARY: The text discusses the capabilities of smart shelves, including access to real-time data, video streaming, and natural computing services, as well as the need for careful architectural decisions and the potential for enhancing conversations between manufacturers and shoppers.
KEYWORDS: smart shelves, back-end infrastructure, shopper engagement, manufacturer-shopper communication, personalized offers
---

support services could include access to databases that store real-time inventory data, customer profile

data, and product information. The back-end server infrastructure may also provide video streaming

services, natural computing services and more.

60

Challenge: Systems architects will need to make careful architectural decisions on where best to host

the intelligence needed to deliver experiences at the shelf. In some cases it will make sense to build

capability into the shelf itself, but in other circumstances a cloud-based approach may be the more cost-

effective approach and enable faster deployment of new services and capabilities.

7.5 ENHANCING CONVERSATIONS BETWEEN MANUFACTURERS AND SHOPPERS

A smart shelf, bristling with sensors, should be able to understand not only what product is displayed

upon it, but also something about the shopper stood in front of it. Like any good sales person, the ideal

smart shelf will need to have a personality that combines knowledge and insight on the shopper with

great selling skills. The shelf should also make choosing easier for the shopper, just like any good sales

person.

The shelf will be able to host a conversation between manufacturers/brands and shoppers. Today that

conversation is hosted by way of static signage on the shelf and packaging or labelling on the product

itself. But what if that conversation could be customized based on the individual shopper, and the shelf

could make enticing, customized offers to the shopper on behalf of the manufacturer?

Let’s consider the types of conversations that manufacturers and brands need and want to have with

prospective buyers:

Value and differentiation – They want to explain why their product justifies the price tag, offers value

for money, and how it is different and offers better value than the competition.

Positioning and help choosing – Is the product good, better, or best? How does it compare against

other products in a range? The shelf should simplify the purchase decision and make it much easier for

the shopper to select the product that’s right for them.

61

Suitability – How well does this product meet the customers’ needs? Not just any customer; This

particular customer.

Offers and special pricing – They want to convey information about any special offers and promotions,

including personalized offers that they want to make to the shopper as a way to entice them to

purchase. They might also want to set pricing dynamically based on the individual shopper, either to

reward loyalty, or to optimize revenue by using algorithms to set the highest price that will still trigger

the shopper to buy.

Queries – They want to answer shoppers’ questions on the product and remove any doubt that might

be a barrier to purchase.

Social context – They want to share any salient online reviews that might help the shopper choose.

These could include reviews from sites that this particular shopper respects and trusts, and also reviews

from their friends. They may possibly also want to highlight similar purchases made by friends and

shared via social media. “Carrie has this in black, and loves it”

Availability – They want to show in-store, local and online availability. And if the product is out of stock,

provide other options for the shopper to source the desired item, or a similar item.

The ideal shelf will be able to handle all of these conversations with shoppers and help to move the

shopper towards making a purchase.

Challenge: When designing smart shelves, retailers will need to focus on trust. The shelf will need to

build trust with the shopper in just the same way a human shopping assistant would. It will need to be

able to demonstrate:

 Strong knowledge on products and the market

 Empathy for the shopper and understanding of their needs

 Honesty, transparency, and trustworthiness

 That it has the shopper’s best interests at heart

Shoppers will quickly figure it out if retailers block poor online product reviews or deploy shelves that

don’t appear to have the shopper’s interest at the center of their programming. Shoppers will flee a self-

interested shelf just as fast as they will run away from a shop assistant on commission that clearly as an

agenda that doesn’t include true customer satisfaction.

Challenge: Retailers will need to find ways for the shelf to help the shopper through the product

discovery process and move them towards purchase. What if the shelf could become a trusted advisor

to the shopper?

Challenge: Retailers will need to find ways for the shelf to help brands establish and then strengthen

relationships with shoppers.

62

7.6 SMART SHELVES SHOULD DEVELOP AN EQ

A smart shelf might also assess the emotional state and context of the shopper in much the same way a

human shopping assistant will attempt to rapidly assess their best approach to interacting with a

customer. Using indoor location, cameras, eye-tracking, and other sensors, the shelf could assess

whether the customer is:

 Stressed, or relaxed

 In a hurry, or open to a more lengthy shopping engagement

 Confused and lost, or moving with purpose

 Looking at multiple products (and thus in discovery mode), or focused on just one or two

products (and thus perhaps in search/decision mode and about the move to purchase)

By better understanding the emotional state of the shopper, the shelf will be able to make an intelligent

decision on how best to offer assistance. For example, a shopper that looks stressed and in a hurry

probably doesn’t have time or the patience for a helpful suggestion on a delicious sauce that would go

perfectly with the broccoli they just put in their cart.

Challenge: Retailers should start thinking about what they will do differently once they are able to

deploy infrastructure that can assess and understand the current emotional state of a shopper.

7.7 CONVERSATIONS WILL BECOME NATURAL

Computers will soon be able to communicate with people in a way that is natural to us humans, rather