SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Technology and Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the evolving role of shelves in the retail experience, with the introduction of 'smart shelves' that can enhance the shopping experience and provide data-driven insights.
KEYWORDS: smart shelves, retail technology, shopper experience, data analytics, personalization
---

the shopper to discover and experience the product, and often to see that product within the broader

context of other products and offers. And they help the manufacturer to move the customer towards a

purchase.

7.2 REDEFINING THE ROLE OF THE SHELF

As discussed in section 6.1, within the next decade anything in our world can become smart, connected,

and sensing. In this timeframe, computing will become so low cost, consume so little energy, and be so

physically small that we can think of ‘smart’ as an ingredient for anything. Even the shelf.

The opportunity for the smart shelf is to change the shelf’s role within the selling process. Today the

shelf is plays a passive role in selling. But a smart shelf could fulfill a much more active role in this

process where it understands shopper needs, knows the product or products it is showcasing, and uses

enhanced capabilities to participate more fully in the business of actively selling. And it could even

deliver personalized offers and promotions.

Fundamentally, the shelf can improve the shopper experience in two fundamental ways: making

shopping easier, and making shopping more enjoyable. And for manufacturers, a smart shelf can create

data-led sales and marketing opportunities and help them better understand who is buying their

products, and who is not buying their products. It can also maximize profit for the retailer by optimizing

pricing dynamically, and enable manufacturers and retailers to reward shopper loyalty, all at the shelf

edge.

56

7.3 EXPECT A BROAD, DIVERSE FAMILY OF SMART SHELVES

There will not be a “one shelf fits all” solution. Smart shelves will come in all shapes and sizes, and all

levels of sophistication.

Shelf capabilities will vary widely, and will improve over time as computing capabilities increase and

costs reduce. The diversity of smart shelves will match the multiplicity of different tasks they will be

asked to perform. This diversity is captured in a potential good, better, best definition:

“Good” shelves - will have basic sensing capabilities such as proximity and pressure sensors, no

display, and no natural communication capabilities. They will gather data on shopper activity

that can be fed into analytics systems to generate insight into shopper behavior and that will

enable retailers to improve operational efficiency.

“Better” shelves - will be characterized by having more sophisticated sensors, more local

intelligence, and better cloud connectivity and services. These shelves will include the ability to

see and understand something about the world around them: they will not only know what

products they have loaded on them (using cameras, RFID readers, or other technology), but also

understand and interact intelligently with the shopper that is stood in front of them. ‘Natural’

shelves would be able to ‘see’ shoppers and converse with them using natural language. Section

7.7 explores this idea in more detail. Such shelves will require a combination of sensors (3D

cameras, microphones, proximity, touch) and powerful computing capability so they can interact

with the shopper in a way that is natural, comfortable, and that is fully respectful of privacy. For

example, the shelf should process all shopper image data locally at the shelf and not transmit

any images to the cloud for privacy reasons.

“Best” shelves - will be include all the capabilities of the “better” shelves, and also will tap into

cloud-based data sources to deliver bespoke wisdom and guidance to the shopper. These

premium shelves may have additional sensors able to smell, feel, understand, and intuit the

world around them. Such shelves will be able to determine the emotional state of shoppers and

act accordingly – see section 7.6 for more information. The shelf may have a built-in shop

assistant capability able to guide the shopper towards making a decision and moving them to

purchase. Section 7.5 explores the types of conversations these types of shelves might have with

shoppers to help them move through the shopper journey.

Some of these capabilities may, at least initially, be leveraged from the shopper’s personal device. For

example, the display, touch capabilities, and even the microphone of a smartphone might be used by

the shelf for shopper interaction.

As cooperative, heterogeneous compute architectures evolve, the shelf may even use some of the local

computing capability of devices to perform its function.

57

The bottom line is that smart shelves will come in a wide range of different types and capabilities. The

main dimensions of this diversity are shown in the diagram below:

7.3.1 Smart shelves – Manufacturer-facing vs Shopper-facing

Different retailers will make different business decisions on whether the smart shelves they deploy are

focused toward the provision of manufacturer-facing services, shopper-facing services, or both.

Manufacturer-facing services are typically a one-way sensing effort targeting the shopper. These

services might include gathering insight on traffic, linger times, churn, customer demographics, and the

success of offers and advertising. Such shelves would not require any type of display. More sophisticated

manufacturer-facing functions could require a two-way conversation with shoppers, for example to

enable the delivery of dynamic or personalized pricing and promotions. These types of shelves would

either require a display or the capability to use the display on a shopper’s personal device.

Shopper-facing services are more likely to facilitate a two-way interactive conversation with the shopper.

These might include providing product information, social media reviews, discounts, and personalized

shopping guidance. For example, the shelf might display or say, “Alice, this product contains gluten”, or

“Alejandro, this product is on your daughter’s birthday wish list”.

Challenge: Retailers will need to decide how to focus their smart shelf deployments. Some will focus

them on offering a differentiated shopper experience, some will be more focused on data gathering as a

service for their manufacturers. Many will deploy shelving infrastructure that does both.

58

7.3.2 Shelves will sport a range of different displays, or no display at all

Shelves will vary in their display capabilities. Many will have no display. Some will have glorious high-end,