SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Automation and Customer Experience
SUMMARY: Retailers need to invest in staff and automate processes to improve customer experience and gain a competitive advantage.
KEYWORDS: retail automation, customer experience, staff investment, process optimization, data-driven decision making
---

be more customer-facing, further improving the customer experience and differentiating retailers versus

their competition. This implies that retailers will need to invest in the quality of their staff as retail labor

is more focused towards delivering highly-differentiated customer service.

For example, Chili’s* restaurant chain has deployed the Ziosk* table-side menu and ordering system in

many of its restaurants. This system automates the process of getting the customer’s order to the

kitchens—a process formerly conducted using paper, pen, and paying a person to walk that piece of

paper physically from A to B. Chili’s made the conscious decision not to use the Ziosk deployment as a

way to reduce staff headcount. Instead, they focused their wait staff on building better human

connections with customers. The Ziosk system acts as a point of sale terminal, taking all the friction out

of bill payment. Time waiting for the bill is the number one customer complaint in hospitality. As a result

of the Ziosk deployment, customer satisfaction went up, tips increased, Chili’s staff satisfaction

increased, and everyone was happy.

Smart retailers will need to examine existing processes and determine where humans add true value,

and where automation can remove manual, low value, or tedious activities, freeing in-store labor to do

24

what they do best…building relationships with customers, improving customer experience, and guiding

them towards a purchase. Retailers that innovate quickly and make the first move to automate

appropriate business elements will create differentiation and wield a clear competitive advantage.

Challenge: Retailers will need to understand the right mix of human and digital investment needed at

each customer touch point to ensure they meet and exceed customer expectations. Sometimes money

saved through automation may be best invested back into lower prices or better returns. Sometimes it

will be best to invest it back into creating new value for shoppers. The answer will depend on shopper

expectations, and these will vary by sector, and by brand. Retailers will need to invest in the quality of

their staff as retail labor becomes more focused on delivering highly differentiated customer service.

Data analytics will provide retailers with operational insight that enables the streamlining of processes,

and the development of retail strategies and tactics based on a deep understanding of the efficiency of

store layout, shopper traffic, store labor effectiveness, customer behavior, and customer needs and

wants. Retailers willing to invest in technology will reap huge advantages. These insights will take the

guesswork and trial-and-error experimentation out of operational improvement and innovation efforts.

Decisions will be made based on a true data-driven understanding of every aspect of retail operations.

Visualization tools will enable merchandisers to understand at a glance how to optimize the

effectiveness of displays, where to place higher value items to gain maximum traffic and attention,

which products experience the highest and lowest churn rates, and which parts of a display attract the

shopper’s gaze. Sophisticated analytics combined with at-the-shelf pricing will enable marketers to

understand which offers work best with each demographic group and thus optimize both sales and

margins.

Detailed profiles of in-store labor will enable managers to understand which store assistants are

delivering the best levels of customer service. Analytics will crunch reams of data read from RFID tags to

understand product movement through the store. For example, a clothing store might notice that a

particular garment is regularly making its way to the changing room but rarely to the checkout implying

a fit issue.

Data, data, data, everywhere. The retailers that learn to harness its power and use it to constantly

improve the way they do business will win. Plain and simple.

Challenge: Retailers should consider in-store data gathering and analysis as a priority. Those that make

early investments to gather in-store operational and shopper data will reap huge competitive advantage

in the form of operational efficiency advantages, and an ability to target innovation efforts based on a

better understanding of shopper needs and wants.

25

4.3 SHOPPER TRENDS

Shoppers have a new and maturing set of expectations of retail. Above all shoppers expect to be put at

the very center of the shopping experience, and to be fully in control throughout.

Shoppers see one shopping experience that just happens to spread across multiple channels. They want

those channels to be as integrated and seamless as possible—one unified shopping experience. They

want to order products online, and return them to physical stores. They expect stores to have the same

online and physical inventory and the same prices, regardless of channel. The number of touch points on

this cross-channel journey is increasing, bringing additional complexity for retailers to manage.

Retailers that obsess over what’s right for the customer, rather than what best serves them or their

suppliers, will succeed in the long term. Back in 1997, Amazon CEO, Jeff Bezos, was quoted as saying,

“From the beginning, our focus has been on offering customers compelling value.”

Putting customers at the center means retailers will need to tailor solutions by channel, by shopper

mode, and even by geography: in Asia they will need to embrace a model that is more focused on

mobile, consumer to consumer, and ownership. In the US they will need to embrace the shift towards

access over ownership, and in Europe they will need to put added emphasis on home delivery.

Many of the shifting attitudes of shoppers are being led by the Millennial generation. There are two

billion Millennials (people currently between the age of 18 and 34) and according to The Cassandra

Report they will represent $2.5 trillion in spending by the year 2020. Millennials expect to have a much

more active relationship with brands and retailers than previous generations—more of a two-way

conversation. They have a low tolerance for inefficiency and are looking to more sustainable modes of

consumption. You will see Millennials reflected broadly in the shopper trends below.

The main changes in shopper expectations are summarized below, in no particular order:

4.3.1 Convenience, efficiency and speed