SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Technology and Personalization
SUMMARY: The future of retail will be defined by personalized shopping experiences driven by deep customer data analysis and balanced investment in both backend operations and in-store technology.
KEYWORDS: personalization, customer data, omnichannel retail, digital transformation, store experience
---

variety of different features and capabilities so it can handle all the different tasks and usages retailers

throw its way.

A decade from now, the winners in retail will be those that invest in building personalized shopping

experiences based on a deep understanding of each shopper as an individual. This will require the

gathering, secure storage, and analysis of vast troves of personal data. We will also see a shift in the

balance of IT spend from a deployment largely focused on the back-end bones of retail, towards a more

balanced approach that spans both back-end operations, and also using technology to create a range of

exciting, personalized in-store experiences for shoppers at the face of retail.

Welcome to the Second era of Digital Retail where shoppers will feel the power of digital technology as

a key ingredient in every form of shopping that they enjoy, whether it be online or offline, pick-up or

delivery, mission or experience shopping.

8.1 NEXT STEPS FOR SAVVY RETAILERS

So where do retailers go from here? The possibilities afforded by the Second era of Digital Retail can be

overwhelming.

Traditional retailers will need to bring the advantages of online into their physical stores: breadth of

offering, high availability, high efficiency, and low friction. And omni-channel retailers will need to bring

the best of traditional shopping to their online offering: immediacy, size and fit confidence, experiential

elements, and touch and feel.

Here are is a summary of steps that retailers should consider taking to get started in this exciting new

landscape:

General

 Consider the face, the bones, and the brains of retail, and build a vision for the store ten years

from now. Use science fiction prototyping if you would like. But have a clear vision for what you

want to build, and importantly also what you don’t want to build. Strategy is as much about

what you are not going to do as what you are going to do. Focus. And aim high.

 Partner with both your IT suppliers and your experience designers to brainstorm potential

opportunities afforded by data analytics, smart infrastructure, indoor location technology, social

networking, and natural computing. Select one or two projects you want to focus on and create

a viable plan to build a proof of concept that you can test. Experiment and learn. Quickly.

68

 Review hiring, staff retention, and training policies and procedures in anticipation of needing to

attract and retain higher quality talent capable of delivering different types of value to

customers. Value that transcends that which will eventually be delivered by technology.

 Invest in the quality of your staff so your labor force can become more focused on delivering

highly differentiated customer service.

 Understand the right mix of human and digital investment needed at each customer touch point

to ensure you are able to meet or exceed evolving customer expectations. Examine existing

processes and determine where humans add true value and where automation can remove

manual, tedious, or low value activities, freeing in-store labor to do what they do best. Resist

the temptation to use technology purely to cut labor costs. Unless you particularly enjoy a race

to the bottom where your business is purely differentiated on price. Remember, most humans

come to stores to interact with other humans. Technology is there to augment them, not always

just replace them.

 Start the tough conversations with investors on the need to extend investment horizons, and

explain the long-term return they can expect as a result. Retailers themselves will need to

lengthen investment horizons and take a 5-10 year view of the future.

 Optimize your speed, differentiation and competitive advantage by carefully balancing your

insourcing and outsourcing strategy for innovation.

 Take risks and begin to deploy new technology in stores before industry standards have fully

solidified in order to gain first-mover advantage.

Creating new value and delighting shoppers

 Consider how to use technology to improve the face of retail, boosting your in-store experience

to ignite sales with shoppers.

 Fit in with the new rituals and routines of the changing customer and understand the difference

between ‘fast’ and ‘slow’ shopping missions. Retailers will need to figure out how to best meet

customers’ expectations for each of these missions. They should optimize operations to delight

experience shoppers with a set of high-touch, high-tech, fun experiences built around the

buying process, or delight mission shoppers with stores built for shopper efficiency, zero friction,

and to get them in and out of the store as quickly as possible.

 Integrate social networking throughout the entire length of the shopper journey from initial

discovery to purchase and beyond.

 Consider building a membership ecosystem around your traditional sales model that delivers

added value to shoppers (beyond simple discounts) and that retains members year after year.

 Begin experimentation with wearable technology and devise strategies to complement the

capabilities of your existing human sales teams with real-time, data-driven insights that help

them deliver better customer service. Explore the benefits of giving wearables to regular

shoppers and understand what value exchange would be required to encourage them to wear

these items while shopping.

 Invest in technology that reduces friction in the product selection and purchase process.

Experiment with RFID and visual recognition technology to reduce checkout friction to zero,

while minimizing theft.

69

 Explore, develop, and deploy technology that makes shopping more social, helps shoppers

choose, helps them make memories, and that deepens emotional relationships with shoppers

by increasing brand and product interaction.

 Involve customers in authentic, transparent, two-way conversations about operations, suppliers,

the future direction of the business, and the development of products to boost emotional

connections between brands and shoppers.

 Differentiate by wrapping origin stories around products and brands that tap into shopper’s

desire to understand the provenance of products.

 Provide free, easy-to-access, in-store Wi-Fi connectivity to shoppers. The upside is worth any

downside.

Customization and personalization