SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Trends and Challenges
SUMMARY: This text examines the trends and challenges facing manufacturers, retailers, and shoppers in the retail industry, including shifts in consumer spending, online competition, and data security concerns.
KEYWORDS: retail industry, consumer spending, online competition, data security
---

Retail sales represent about 18% of the US GDP, equivalent to $3 trillion in 2013, and rising to $4.1

trillion by 2020. At the same time, consumer spending patterns are shifting and their dollars are now

being attracted to other sectors—to healthcare, to services, and to other non-retail household spending.

Globally, UNI estimates the retail sector employs around 142 million people across the 82 countries for

which they have data. The top 250 retailers account for roughly 40% of global retail sales, but operate

on low margins. Again according to UNI, the composite margin earned by those top 250 retailers in 2011

was just 3.8%.

In this section we will review the trends affecting each of the main constituents involved in retail—

manufacturers, retailers, and shoppers—and also the challenges that these trends present to future

retail growth.

4.1 MANUFACTURERS/BRANDS – TRENDS AND CHALLENGES

Manufacturers and brands are facing a range of ongoing challenges.

 Manufacturers currently have very limited (or no) visibility of their products once they hit the

retailer loading docks. They are asking for significantly more insight into what’s happening inside

the retail store, want to get closer to the customer, and are seeking new ways to interact with

customers in retail.

 Some manufacturers are seeing continued downward price pressure due to increasingly

commoditized, undifferentiated products.

 Manufacturers face increasing competition from retailer own brands.

4.2 RETAILERS - TRENDS AND CHALLENGES

As they look to the future, retailers are facing an unprecedented number of major challenges. These

challenges are:

 The shift to online – Traditional retailers have to navigate an omni-channel world and compete

head on with pure play online retailers. Cross-channel shopping behavior is now the norm in all

segments. According to Forrester Research, roughly 51% of all purchases in the US will be

influenced by the Internet. High speed delivery is set to increase the appeal of online retail over

traditional retail by removing “immediacy” as an advantage for bricks and mortar retailers.

 Footprint – Retailers are finding they need smaller retail spaces in different locations as

urbanization hikes rents, shoppers demand more local shopping, and low-income shoppers

move to the first-ring of suburbia where the first malls were built. This has been exacerbated as

certain products have become commoditized and their sales have moved online, reducing the

demand for large format stores (notably consumer electronics and department stores).

 Polarization – As retailers specialize and focus to meet customer expectations they are

polarizing along four important vectors: physical size, product type, shopping model, and price.

19

 Security and trust – As retailers gather and store more and more personal data on their

customers they will need to guard security and honor privacy if they want to avoid breaching

trust with shoppers.

 Oversupply – Too many retailers with too many brands are leading to a highly competitive high

street.

 Inefficiency – In a highly competitive environment, retailer efficiency becomes more important

than ever. Operations have not been optimized based on data. The shopping experience can feel

very inefficient, and many stores host highly unproductive space showcasing rarely purchased

items.

Each of these six challenges is explored in more detail in the sections below.

4.2.1 The shift to online

Ninety percent of retail sales are still conducted inside the store. But the balance between online and in-

store sales is shifting, and online browsing now has an enormous influence in the pre-purchase phase. In

a US study, Accenture found that 88% of respondents researched products online before buying in the

store, a phenomenon commonly known as “web-rooming”. This compares to just 73% of consumers

who claim to practice “show-rooming”, the practice of browsing in-store before buying online.

The shift towards online fulfillment will likely continue as routine purchases of commodity goods and

consumables becomes automated and delivered to the home. In the US, brick and mortar retail sales

were predicted to rise just 3.5% in 2H’14, whereas online sales were expected to jump 14% in the same

timeframe. Deloitte states that just over 5% of total retail sales are now done via mobile devices, but

they expect this to reach 17-21% by 2016.

The exposure of traditional retail to cannibalization by online sales varies greatly by sector. For example,

high-value, small, and light goods such as electronics will be affected in a different way than lower value,

heavier items such as home improvement materials.

Shopping models are emerging that span the online and physical realms. “Click and collect” is becoming

popular in some geographies around the world such as Europe and Australia. This allows the shopper to

order online, and then pick up their goods at a nearby location.

According to WPP’s annual study of the top 100 most valuable brands, the most valuable retail brand in

2014 is not any of the traditional retailer. It is online retailer, Amazon. Amazon has embraced digital

technology to deliver efficient operations and provide shoppers with unparalleled choice. They are now

imagining and developing a delivery network for the future that is designed to deliver goods in hours or

perhaps even minutes.

Challenge: The main challenge for traditional retailers is how to get the advantages of online (breadth of

offerings, high availability, reviews, product details etc.) into their physical stores and at the same time

get the best of physical into their online offering (immediacy, size & fit confidence, touch & feel etc.)

20

Challenge: Retailers face a significant challenge as they try to unify their in-store and online shopping

experiences. Shoppers see no distinction between the two worlds and expect to be able to interact with

retailers and brands across mobile, web, and physical channels as they meander through the shopper

journey. Retailer online stores typically grew up separately from the core physical store business and

sometimes offer a different range of products, different pricing, and don’t share inventory. This has led

to shopper confusion and frustration. Retailers will need to unify all their systems so that customers feel