SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Futurecasting
SUMMARY: The text discusses the backcasting process to determine interim steps and capabilities needed to realize future retail scenarios.
KEYWORDS: backcasting, futurecasting, retail, scenario planning
---

negotiated through group bargaining.

10.4 BACKCASTING

The backcasting process is a way to figure out the interim steps that are needed in order for an imagined

future to become true. The result is a set of concrete actions that need to be taken at various times

between now and the time in which the futurecasting scenario is to be realized. The process also

extracts a set of capabilities that will need to be developed.

The teams did this for both the 2017 and 2020 timeframes. This provided a set of nearer term steps they

could take towards realizing their visions for 2024.

A set of sample actions and capabilities extracted by the teams are listed below by way of example:

By the year 2017

 Need data integrity on stock availability across the purchase chain

 Need a social media platform to allow visibility of buyer to friends’ likes/interest in products

 A consumer platform that is extensible to all screens

 Hire data scientist to conduct behavioral analysis and modeling on needs and purchase habits

By the year 2020

 Same day and next day shipping for goods

 3D printers to create products, cotton fabrics and designs that are designed by friends or (other)

participants in the market – or markets in other parts of the world

84

10.5 SCIENCE FICTION PROTOTYPING

Once backcasting had been used to start to extract concrete actions and capabilities that would be

needed for each scenario, science fiction prototyping was employed to stress test that scenario and look

for issues and nuances they might have overlooked while in the experience creation phase.

These prototypes took the form of stories from the future, usually set several decades beyond the initial

futurecasting time horizon. The goal of science fiction prototyping is to use the added freedom afforded

by the extended timescale to take the imagined scenarios to the extreme. Teams were encouraged to

imagine something going terribly wrong and then being remediated or fixed. This approach reveals

insights and important design considerations that would be applicable to the shorter-term experiences

being imagined.

By way of illustration, a sample science fiction prototype is included below to demonstrate the process.

The team had a bit of fun with the story, but it highlights some serious potential security issues with

their experience scenario that have applicability back to the 2017 and 2020 time frames:

The year is 2055. Alexandria is now 73 years old. She recently experienced a stroke, has partial paralysis and has

great trouble speaking. Her husband was somewhat older than her and died back in 2050. Her four children are all

grown and have moved to other cities in Mexico, and across Latin America.

Alexandria takes a pill twice a day to manage her various ailments, which include high blood pressure, obesity,

migraines, COPD and chocolate addiction. It has been specially designed for her by her health provider based on her

genetic code.

She still lives in the same building, albeit in a much more spacious condo, and now relies heavily on the

“Convenierge” service to assist her with many of her daily living tasks. It understands and anticipates all her needs

and service robots deliver all her goods, her food, and her medication to her home.

Recently, Alexandria has noticed that her life feels different. Her medication looks the same, but doesn’t seem to

have the same beneficial effect on her that it once did. Perhaps she’s imagining it? But her blood pressure certainly

does seem to be on the rise. And lately, the range of food her robot is loading into her fridge and pantry doesn’t

seem quite right. Products she’s never used before are showing up. And many of the staples she uses for her

favorite recipes are missing.

Alexandria suspects something is up. She hasn’t had to check her billing statement in years. She’s just learned to

trust Convenierge to take care of everything for her. She waves her hand to bring up a visual display of her spending

on the wall and is shocked by what she sees.

From being quite financially comfortable, she now sees that she only has three months of living expenses left in her

account. Somebody has been ordering vast amounts of goods and services, and billing them to her. That same

somebody has hacked her “Auto birthday present” service and been sending themselves high value items – a 4D

camera, a 70-year special anniversary edition Back to the future hoverboard, and even a new eKidney to her niece.

Only of course it was never delivered to her niece, Naomi, but went to some address in Beijing. Alexandria also sees

that many of the healthy, high-quality products she has enjoyed over the years have been substituted with poor

alternatives. Some of them are known to include ingredients that were banned in the ‘30s for their serious health

issues. Even worse, as she investigates further, she finds that her custom pill is actually a slow acting poison. The

criminals clearly intend to knock her off before her money runs out, and take over her apartment.

Alexandria’s life is turned upside-down, and she realizes somebody is out to kill her and take everything she owns.

She now has nothing to leave to her kids as inheritance, and doesn’t know what to do.

85

She summons her automated lawyer and criminal investigation service, LawAI by thinking about a shirtless Tom

Selleck as Magnum PI, her pre-agreed brainwave icon for the service. Her BMI (brain-machine interface) hat has

been a godsend since her stroke. LawAI’s holographic representative appears in her lounge and listens to her

problem. The representative is not a real person, but certainly looks like one. It is powered by powerful algorithms

and represented as a 3D avatar carefully selected to look as friendly and calming to Alexandria as possible, based

on her data profile. The algorithms of the law service immediately begin to run diagnostics on the system and