SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Customer Experience
SUMMARY: Strategies for enhancing the customer experience in retail stores through personalization, customization, and smart shelf technologies.
KEYWORDS: customer experience, personalization, customization, smart shelves, data analytics
---

connections between brands and shoppers.

 Differentiate by wrapping origin stories around products and brands that tap into shopper’s

desire to understand the provenance of products.

 Provide free, easy-to-access, in-store Wi-Fi connectivity to shoppers. The upside is worth any

downside.

Customization and personalization

 Tailor solutions by channel, by shopper, and by geography. In Asia, you will need to embrace a

model more focused on mobile, consumer-to-consumer and ownership. In the US you will need

to embrace the sharing economy, and in Europe you will need to put added emphasis on home

delivery.

 Deliver every experience in the store in a way that is both personal and relevant by deploying

the intelligence and analytics capabilities required to understand each shopper intimately.

 Begin experimenting with customization as soon as possible. Use it to understand how shoppers

can be sold up to customized solutions, to determine the right places to apply customization

options to products, and to learn how to design the optimal customization experience that you

wrap around it all. If customization is fun and easy, it’ll be popular.

 Experiment to find the right balance between meeting a shopper’s desire for customization and

overwhelming them with ‘choice anxiety’.

 Conduct research and experiment to understand what level of customization shoppers really

want. This will probably vary by product category, price point, and other factors.

 Collaborate with manufacturers to build a supply chain able to start with modular products and

turn them into finished goods close to point of sale, all based on the expressed desires of the

individual shopper.

 Deploy easy-to-use, fun interfaces (perhaps including touch, gesture, speech, and augmented or

virtual reality) that are designed to make customization a delight for shoppers and engage them

in two-way conversations on their needs and wants.

 Work with IT partners to begin exploring and investing in active and passive location tracking as

a key component of your strategy to improve the shopper experience, and to provide shopper

analytics services to manufacturers.

Smart shelf

 Develop clear strategies for smart shelf deployments. Think about the smart shelf as a platform

for delivering new services to manufacturers and exciting, valuable, personalized experiences to

shoppers. But above all, think of it as the end point in a network of data gathering sensors that

make up the smart store.

 Understand how to capitalize on the opportunity to generate returns from manufacturers by

creating data-led sales and marketing leads at the shelf.

70

 Use analytics to match inventory exactly with real-time customer demand. Algorithms will

increase the chances that you stock exactly what the increasingly time-pressed shopper is

looking for.

 Engage thoughtful designers and user experience expertise to optimize the fit and function of

smart shelves within the store environment.

 Understand how you could use dynamic pricing at the shelf to optimize your profits.

 Begin experiments with natural computing technologies as a way to build out your longer term

vision for ways smart infrastructure could bring new value to your shoppers in your store.

Smart products and new services

 Partner with manufacturers to start imagining (and demanding) smart products, and brainstorm

bold new ways to create services that will revolve around them. Start exploring these service

opportunities and either hire or buy appropriate expertise that will enable you to build out

adjacent service offerings. Set internal goals for future service revenue streams and engage

buyers in the plan to source products that will help meet these goals.

 Consider new ways to monetize smart products as a way to boost overall revenue. This could

include creating annuities that generate ongoing revenue streams, and enabling new business

models that target new customers in new ways.

Real estate and space efficiency

 Rebalance the store and channel portfolio over time to shrink footprints, increase local presence,

and reallocate space towards increasing the shopper experience and creating new value.

 Make more efficient use of your physical space, reduce real-estate costs, improve productivity,

deliver new formats, and offer maximum choice in the minimal footprint by using technology to

create automated infrastructure and virtual spaces. Look at what Hointer* and Adidas* have

done for some starting inspiration.

Delivery

 Partner with existing and emerging delivery providers to assure a clear line of sight to high-

speed (“next hour” or faster) delivery services as they become available. Nobody wants to go

out of business just because their delivery service speed is no longer competitive.

 If appropriate to your business, consider embracing auto-replenishment services for

consumables.

 Traditional retailers should prepare now for the day their immediacy advantage is removed by

high-speed delivery and invest in other differentiators to boost their brand proposition.

 Consider proactively increasing the transparency of your operations to build trusted

relationships with shoppers. Clean up operational bumps if needed. Once you have a solid story

to tell, go and tell it. Millennial shoppers will appreciate it and reward you with increased brand

loyalty.

71

Sharing economy

 Understand the sharing economy, its implications, and if needed consult experts to plot its likely

evolution. Then build a considered strategy in response. Retailers will need to challenge long-

held assumptions about the shopper’s desire to own and potentially rethink their role in the

marketplace. Whether you decide to reject, partially or fully embrace the sharing economy you

will need to have a brave rethink of your current business model and look for ways to create

new and compelling propositions for your customers. All this will require you to find new ways

to define and position your unique value.

 Understand how to operate in a landscape where resale value is an important component of the

purchase decision.

 Find ways to market the value of ownership to shoppers.

 Experiment with leasing, loaning, bartering and rental services and dedicate a portion of your

footprint to selling lightly used products in a few stores. Look for ways to upsell to new products.