SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Digital Retail Transformation
SUMMARY: Retailers must embrace new technologies, take risks, and make data-driven decisions to remain competitive in the evolving retail landscape.
KEYWORDS: digital retail, technology adoption, data-driven decision making, operational efficiency, customer experience
---

businesses on gut and historical experience will become uncompetitive. They will need to learn new

skills, embrace new technology, and take big risks. Retailers will all need to be much braver than in the

past; and only the bravest will win.

Technology will remake the face, the bones, and the brains of retail. Vast amounts of data will be

gathered, stored and analyzed to provide unique insight into operational efficiency and shopper needs

and wants. These breakthroughs will be made possible by computing capability that comes at very low

cost, tiny physical sizes, and ever higher performance levels.

Historically retailers have focused IT spending on improving the bones of retail: manufacturer-facing

efforts designed to optimize the supply chain, manage inventory, and handle secure transactions. In

response to new shopper expectations, retailers are rebalancing their IT spend to include customer-

facing technologies that also improve the face of retail: technology to improve the shopper experience,

to make mission shopping more efficient, and experience shopping more enjoyable. Giant data centers

will amplify the effectiveness of both the bones and face by connecting them to the brains of retail:

analytics and intelligence at every stage of the retail machine that multiplies the effectiveness of the

bones and face. Retailers will no longer operate on gut and experience but will make data-driven

decisions based on operational insight and a deep understanding of the shopper genome—shopper

habits, desires, and expectations. Data gathered from smart, connected in-store infrastructure will

enable retailers to optimize profits by optimizing operational efficiency, delivering personalized

experiences and value that customers crave, and selling valuable insights to manufacturers. In-store

intelligence will also enable retailers to deliver personalized offers, dynamic pricing, and the customized

products and services shoppers want. Computers that can see, hear and understand the world around

them will enable brands and retailers to have new types of interactions with shoppers, and tell stories in

new ways. Finally, technology will optimize the effectiveness of labor by connecting assistants to real-

time store data with the use of wearable computing.

7

By 2030, smart cars will navigate down smart streets in smart cities. Smart products will be delivered by

smart trucks to smart stores inside smart packaging. These smart products will create new revenue

streams built on new business models that enable retailers and manufacturers to build new service

businesses. Smart stores will be filled with smart infrastructure and smart shelves that bristle with a

myriad of sensors gathering vast amounts of data. In-store automation will free up labor to focus on

customer service and enable human touch connections that can’t be replicated online.

The smart shelf is an oft-mentioned fable of the retail future that to date has not made either financial

or business sense. In the next decade, the smart shelf will finally come of age, not as the garish, Vegas-

like display shelf imagined in the past, but as a vital data-gathering endpoint that is part of a broader

intelligent and sensing physical store. The smart, sensing physical environment will use a variety of

sensing tools ranging from Wi-Fi, video, and SKU-level RFID to temperature, humidity, proximity and

other sensors arrayed according to the segment, store layout, and business need. Low-cost, low power

computing will enable this smart, sensing infrastructure to connect shoppers with retailers in new ways

and allow retailers to gather insight that they can use to optimize their business, and to sell value-added

analytics services to manufacturers. Cloud-connected smart shelves will evolve to facilitate the

conversation between manufacturers and shoppers and will actively participate in the selling process.

They will revolutionize the level of service retailers are able to offer to manufacturers and shoppers alike.

Smart stores will interact with the shopper in a way that is natural, comfortable, and fully respectful of

shopper privacy. Intelligence will be used to deliver personalized experiences to the shopper, to reward

shopper loyalty, to create data-led sales and marketing opportunities for manufacturers, and to

maximize profit for the retailer by delivering dynamic pricing at the shelf.

Eventually shelves will understand natural human language, context, and even sense emotional states.

They will serve shoppers intelligently by assessing whether they are stressed, relaxed, in a hurry,

confused, in discovery, or close to making a purchase decision. Like any good sales person, the shelf will

have a personality that combines deep product knowledge, trustworthiness, great shopper insight and

strong selling skills. It will navigate a wide range of conversations, make choosing easier for the shopper

and move them towards purchase. Smart shelves will also handle loss prevention, and manage samples,

inventory and assets. To unlock maximum value, smart shelves will need to be supported by a

sophisticated back-end server infrastructure able to gather, store, and analyze data, and deliver media

and other services to the shelf. New business models will emerge that allow retailers to optimize the

experience for shoppers, for manufacturers, or both. Proprietary, vertical solutions that initially come to

market will eventually yield to lower-cost solutions based on standard building blocks, interfaces, and

APIs. This will lead to an explosion of value creation as it enables developers to collaborate across

standardized platforms.

The sharing economy creates an opportunity for retailers to monetize goods and services in new ways

but also threatens existing retail business. Shoppers are finding more efficient ways to consume. In a

fast-growing trend that could limit future consumption and that could spread to nearly every sector of

retail, some shoppers in some markets now aspire to merely have access to products rather than own

them.

Local just-in-time manufacturing, led by ever-improving 3D printing technology, will reframe the

economics, supply chain and customization capabilities of retail. 3D printing promises to offer shoppers

maximum choice and immediacy inside the minimal physical store footprint.

8

The shift to online sales has remade the retail landscape and the availability of high-speed delivery

services will probably accelerate the rise of mobile and online shopping. “Next hour” delivery capability

is emerging and will eventually become widespread, removing the immediacy advantage for traditional