SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Automation and Personalization
SUMMARY: The text describes an automated and personalized retail experience, where a customer is assisted by intelligent store systems and personalized product recommendations.
KEYWORDS: retail automation, personalization, smart shelves, product recommendations, customer experience
---

also threw in some Quince paste as a nice surprise. It would help that Oregon blue go down nicely. The

items were picked and packed and delivered to Susie’s home by drone in chilled, secure hutch that was

left at her door.

A well-dressed man greeted Susie by name as she walked through the door of Electronics Warehouse.

Susie loved stores that still had people in them. The man could see from the profile displayed in his

glasses that Susie had not selected the “no greeting” option that some customers preferred.

“Can I help you find something?” he beamed.

“I’m looking for a GardenBot for my grandmother.”

“Robots are all in the back right corner, next to the other appliances. Follow the yellow path.”

The intelligent store, which had been following their conversation, used projected lighting and also

temporarily commandeered signage on varies shelves and fixtures in the store to guide Susie to the

robotic department with a soft, pulsing yellow hue. “Follow the yellow brick road” she mused to herself.

On her way to the rear of the store, she noted a display that grabbed her attention. A bright red blender

sat on a shelf displaying a personalized notification for Susie—“This is on Netty’s bridal registry.” Susie

still had to get her niece a wedding gift so she decided to make the purchase. This was one of those

older shelves that couldn’t speak so Susie took out her device and easily completed the purchase with a

single touch.

Susie then perused the store’s selection of GardenBots but honestly they all looked pretty much the

same to her. Signage on the shelf recognized Susie by her device and displayed product reviews from a

number of sources that it knew Susie trusted. It was even able to pull a couple of reviews written by

people in Susie’s social network. But it seemed that every one of the bots was actually fairly well-

reviewed and so she still wasn’t sure which to choose.

Emotion sensors in the smart shelf understood her facial expression and determined that she might

need assistance.

“May I help you find something?” said the shelf.

“That would be great. I need a bot that can dig holes, rake, and mow the lawn. But I can’t spend more

than $40 or so.”

77

The shelf analyzed the request and reviewed the specifications of the products it had on display as well

as the specs of additional products it had at the warehouse. It determined suitability and reviewed

Susie’s profile to understand how price sensitive she was, which brands she favored, and what her

sustainability and corporate responsibility requirements were. As a result it rejected a couple of options

that were made by a company with a poor environmental record.

“The GardenHelper 2000 you see highlighted here in red digs holes, rakes, and carries a 100lb load, but

it doesn’t mow lawn. It’s $34.99 today. I don’t have it in stock, but the GardenHelper 2500 looks similar,

has similar specifications to the 2000, but also mows lawns. It’s $44 but as a special offer I could do the

first six months for only $35 per month.”

The shelf projected a holographic display of the GardenHelper 2500 and it did indeed look splendid.

Susie was able to see it helping an older person plant tomato plants and she could imagine it helping out

Grandma Kaye with her roses.

Susie was a sucker for a special offer (and Electronics Warehouse knew it) so she decided to buy the

$44/month GardenHelper 2500 service. After all, she justified to herself, Grandma was worth it.

Susie arranged for a GardenHelper 2500 bot to show up at Grandma Kaye’s house the following day and

recorded a personal video message that the robot would play when it arrived. “I hope you enjoy this

bot! It’ll help you in the garden and I’ve paid for three years of service so he’ll be your friend for a while.

By the way, I named him George! Love you!”

Susie remembered her impromptu guest and raced back to her car.

She wanted her place to look and smell nice for her friend’s visit so she had the car pull over at the

convenience store near her home. As Susie ran into the store, the store sensed that she was in a hurry

and made no attempt to engage her in conversation. Susie had an account with the store and so

grabbed a bouquet she liked and let the automated store and her device handle the rest between them.

Cameras recognized the type of flowers Susie had selected and securely billed Susie’s account.

Remembering her friend liked ice cream, she whizzed over to the frozen food section and spoke to the

fridge, “What’s Meg Mauer’s favorite flavor?” The fridge consulted Susie’s social network and tried to

ascertain her friend’s preferences. Meg had not chosen to opt in to any shopping assistance service and

so the fridge simply replied, “Unavailable”.

“Oh well, who doesn’t like chocolate?!”, she thought, grabbing the Deluxe Double Chocolate Brownie

gelato. Susie dashed to her car and headed home to meet her friend. She grabbed the cheese and wine

from the cool box outside her door and touched the CollectMe button. Susie’s house opened the door

to let her inside. As she stepped into the hallway, a drone that had just dropped off a package to a

neighbor swooped down from the sky, picked up the empty cooler box, and returned it to the delivery

depot.

A few weeks later, Susie and Eric were getting ready to leave on their trip to Barcelona. Their house

knew they were leaving as they securely shared their calendars and other personal data with it. Over the

last week the meal plans the house had suggested were designed to use up any food in the fridge that

would have spoiled while they were away.

78

Eric loaded Susie’s new luggage into the trunk and was pleased to see the sunflower photo that he’d