SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Customer Tracking and Analytics
SUMMARY: The text discusses the benefits and challenges of tracking in-store customer behavior and data to build a comprehensive understanding of the customer journey.
KEYWORDS: customer tracking, in-store analytics, shopper behavior, data privacy, personalization
---

would love to know when shoppers came through their store and bought nothing. They would love to

know what shoppers looked at, considered, but didn’t place into their basket. They would love to know

what they tried on. They would love to know what store elements make them happy, or unhappy. And

they would love to see how they moved around the store and what caught their attention.

The ideal case is that the identity of a loyal shopper is known the moment they enter the store. Opt-in

schemes using personal devices or wearable technology might make this possible. But the identity of a

shopper in the store will either not be known, or might only become known when they swipe a card at

the checkout. Systems could be imagined that monitor and track shopper behavior in-store and label

them simply as “Shopper A”, “Shopper B”, “Shopper C” and so forth. A combination of location tracking

and smart shelf sensing could build a profile of each shopper as they navigate the store without them

being identified. This process would link together multiple interactions at several different touch points

in the store into one single profile for their visit. This would allow retailers to build a more holistic view

of a shopper’s journey in the store combining their route with details of the individual interactions they

had with elements of the store. At this stage, all data would be still be fully anonymous. And anonymous

data still has value as part of building up a picture of overall shopper behavior in the store.

36

If “Shopper B” subsequently then identifies themselves at the checkout by using a loyalty card or a

recognized payment system, and they have opted in to tracking, their in-store behavior could then be

added to their profile and used to improve the personalization of the experience the next time they

enter the store, or go online.

All this will need to be managed within the constraints of respecting the privacy of shoppers, allowing

them to remain anonymous if desired, and with the philosophy that any data that is gathered on a

shopper is done so on an “opt in” basis, with explicit permission from the shopper.

Challenge: Retailers will need to be able to clearly articulate to the shopper the value of tracking them in

the store and deliver real value that encourages shoppers to opt in. Tracking that only serves the needs

of manufacturers or retailers will be seen for what it is, and will probably be seen as a break of trust and

the social contract.

Challenge: Retailers will build the most accurate understanding of their customers if they are able to

unify their customer data from both online and offline sources.

Challenge: Retailers will need to build their systems in a way that respect shopper desire for privacy and

that allow them to remain anonymous if they so desire.

5.3 COLLABORATION VERSUS COMPETITION

In this new world of big data, retailers have a couple of ways they can regard their new data assets.

Firstly, retailers could jealously guard their data and leverage the insights they gain from it as a

competitive advantage. This might be a great strategy for retailers that have loyal customers that they

see on a weekly or even more regular basis, such as grocery stores.

Alternatively, retailers could make deals to share their insights with other like-minded brands, creating a

federation of value and services, perhaps targeted at a particular group of shoppers. For example, non-

competing luxury brands might find value in sharing data, or brands oriented toward frequent travelers,

or perhaps a group of brands focused on home improvement (a hardware store, a paint store, and a

gardening store for example). This might be a great strategy for retailers with low frequency interactions

with shoppers, or who only have a small number of outlets. Such retailers might find other retailers

willing to share customer data on a quid pro quo basis, enabling them to gain better customer insights

and deliver more personalized experiences. This may be welcomed by shoppers who value personalized

services. For example, a woman’s favorite store might recommend a top that goes well with the skirt

she just bought in another store.

Third party data brokering services may emerge that link together retailers in “data cooperatives”. And

retailers might perhaps collaborate in much the same way airlines club together in alliances to offer

their customers convenient services that span across airlines. A connecting flight becomes a connecting

shopping experience that spans retailers. Such alliances may make more sense if they span different

sectors, or are between retailers that don’t directly compete.

And of course the moment data starts to be shared between entities data security becomes paramount.

37

Challenge: Retailers will need to determine their strategy for sharing data with others. If they decide to

share they will need to gain the consent of shoppers, build strategic partnerships with other retailers or

data brokers, and determine appropriate, secure mechanisms needed to share data in a way that fully

guards privacy.

5.4 WHO PAYS FOR DATA: CAPEX VERSUS OPEX

One major open question for the retail sector is ‘who will retain ownership of all this data?’

This question can actually be simplified and reduced to: who will pay to collect all this data? Will

retailers and manufacturers make the CapEx investments needed to gather and analyze their own data,

or will they give it away to third parties that offer “free” or subsidized infrastructure in return for

retaining ownership of the data?

Different retailers will have different approaches. The answer for each retailer will be partly a

philosophical and partly a business decision.

Whoever collects and owns all this data will be able to refine it to create value. It boils down to an issue

of control, and a discussion of whether manufacturers and retailers want to pay for this type of

capability out of their CapEx or OpEx budgets. Retailers face two main options here: