SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Home Automation and Smart Home Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses a smart home system that automatically cancels deliveries and manages the home while the residents are away.
KEYWORDS: smart home, home automation, home management, delivery cancellation, home monitoring
---

last week the meal plans the house had suggested were designed to use up any food in the fridge that

would have spoiled while they were away.

78

Eric loaded Susie’s new luggage into the trunk and was pleased to see the sunflower photo that he’d

taken adorning one side. As they began their journey, Eric and Susie were able to relax and think about

the upcoming visit to La Sagrada Familia in Barcelona. They didn’t have to even think about all the

standing orders they had. As they sped to the airport, the house quietly cancelled all their deliveries of

milk, eggs, juice and all the other regular items Eric and Susie consumed, put itself into sleep mode, and

patiently awaiting their return.

79

10 FUTURECASTING PROCESS

The futurecasting process is designed as a structured thought exercise to explore the likely changes

coming to a particular sector or area of focus. In this case the focus was the retail sector in mature

markets.

Futurecasting uses a combination of expert consultation, science-fiction prototyping, and backcasting to

come to conclusions about the likely future. During a multi-day creative workshop, participants combine

a wide range of insights to build actionable models of the future.

Futurecasting is not a passive exercise. The aim is not to predict the future, but to decide what future we

want to build, and to define concrete initial steps we can take to begin on that journey. It also seeks to

anticipate possible scenarios such that companies are able to prepare their strategic responses should

these scenarios come to pass.

The diagram below illustrates how insights are boiled down through the futurecasting process and

turned into actionable next steps.

The process starts with expert testimony spanning a broad range of disciplines. Accurately modelling the

future requires the combination of a diverse range of insights. These include:

 Social trends - What people love, what they are scared of, what their challenges are, what their

aspirations are, how and where they derive meaning, and what their attitudes are.

 Demographic trends – Shifting attitudes, habits, and values, by age, gender, location and other

factors

 Technology trends – Disruptive technology, influential technology trends, and timing for mass

market viability and impact

 Economic trends – Global earning and spending, manufacturing supply data, energy prices

 Business and ecosystem trends – Retail ecosystem and broader business model trends

80

 Infrastructure - Consideration of existing infrastructure and other barriers to change

Once experts have shared their insights on the most important and salient trends, teams synthesize

what they have heard and boil it down to the most important points they think will shape the future of

the subject at hand, in this case, retail.

Finally, by using science-fiction prototyping, attendees build out models of the future and then use them

to step backwards in time toward the present using an approach known as backcasting. This allows

them to extract the main focus areas for future innovation needed to get us from today to the imagined

future.

10.1 PARTICIPANTS

A huge thank you to all the experts that generously gave their time and passion to contribute to the

three-day futurecasting session held at the Intel Jones Farm campus in Hillsboro, Oregon in July 2014.

David Roth CEO WPP – The Store

Jon Bird Managing Director WPP – Y&R Labstore

Anne Zybowski Vice President WPP – Kantar Retail

Scott Lamensdorf Vice President WPP – Kantar Retail

Dick Cantwell Vice President Cisco Consulting Services

Robert Pettit Client Development Director WPP - Fitch

Francesco Cordua Vice President RTKL

James Sorensen Senior Vice President WPP – TNS Global

Herb Sorensen Scientific Advisor WPP – TNS Global

Ed Halla Managing Director Eye Level

Graeme Kelly Enterprise Architect Myer

John Warn Regional General Manager Westfield, Scentre Group

Jack Hanrahan Retailer Relations Westfield

Rachel Antalek Vice President Starbucks

Nicolai Gerard General Manager Pepsi Co

Diane Collins Vice President Meads Johnson

Ray Itaoui Owner Sanity

Anthony Ritch Vice President Westfield

Brett Blundy Managing Director BB Retail Capital

Steve Brown Futurist, Intel Labs Intel

Brian David Johnson Futurist, Intel Labs Intel

Adrian Whelan Business Development Intel

Maroun Ishac Business Development Intel

Jose Avalos WW Director, Visual Retail Intel

Ryan Lester WW Director, End user enablement Intel

Jon Stine Global Director, Retail Sales Intel

Megan Bednarz End User Marketing Intel

Without the passion, vast experience, deep knowledge, and enthusiastic participation of every person

that collaborated in the futurecasting session, this report would not have been possible. Thank you all.

81

Another big thank you to the experts that set the scene for the futurecasting session, grounding the

attendees in the latest trends in technology, economics, retail, IT, demographics, and shopper behavior.

The expert speakers for the futurecasting session:

 Paul Thomas, Intel Chief Economist.

 Dick Cantwell, VP of Cisco Consulting.

 David Roth, CEO of WPP The Store.

 Herb Sorensen, Scientific Advisor to WPP TNS Global.

 Anne Zybowski VP of WPP Kantar Retail.

 Jamie Gutfreund, CMO at Deep Focus.

 Steve Brown, Futurist, Intel.

10.2 SYNTHESIS OF KEY TRENDS

The futurecasting participants first listened to a day of informed opinion and insight from a variety of

domain experts spanning the retail industry, manufacturers, technologists, and beyond. Within small

teams, participants then synthesized and distilled all the information they had heard, highlighting key

insights and determining the factors most likely to shape the future of retail. They then considered the

implications of trends to the world of retail, both positive and negative, and determined how the retail

sector should respond as a result.

Here are some examples of the key trends and retail imperatives that emerged from teams during the

synthesis process (this is actual wording from the teams themselves):

Trend Retail imperative

Compute will enable us to add intelligence into Need to ensure control still remains in the hands

anything and everything of the shopper and that we are solving a

customer need/pain point and not just using

technology for technology’s sake