SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Technology and Personalization
SUMMARY: Retailers can leverage wearable technology and 3D printing to enhance customer experience, enable customization, and transform their supply chains.
KEYWORDS: wearable technology, personalization, 3D printing, on-demand manufacturing, customer experience
---

help them deliver better customer service.

Computing technology worn by shoppers is also an opportunity to transform the customer experience.

While 80% of US consumers currently have privacy concerns over wearable technology, half of those

same consumers would be willing to share personal data collected from their wearable devices with

retailers if they are given some kind of compensation such as a coupon or discount (Source: Accenture’s

Acquity Group, 2014).

Some retailers are already experimenting with replacing loyalty cards with wearables for their

customers. These wearable devices can be used to monitor shopper behavior, trigger personalized

offers, and deliver rewards to shoppers for certain behaviors (perhaps for visiting the store a certain

number of times in a month or in a year). Shoppers will need to perceive that they enjoy a fair exchange

of value for agreeing to wear technology supplied by a retailer. It will need to offer them benefits they

value and come with adequate assurances regarding privacy and security. These benefits may or may

not be related to the shopping experience itself.

Challenge: Retailers might want to explore the benefits of giving wearables to their regular shoppers

and research the appropriate value exchange required to incent shoppers to keep these wearable items

on their bodies.

42

6.2 3D PRINTING COULD TURN RETAILERS INTO MANUFACTURERS

3D printing technology will continue to improve over the next decade and will potentially reframe the

economics, supply chain and customization capabilities of retail.

Retailers may also become manufacturers, able to make or finish customized goods on demand. In an

urbanized world of small retail spaces, 3D printing promises to be able to offer shoppers maximum

choice and immediacy, all supplied from a footprint that uses the minimum amount of space.

The trend towards the use of 3D printers may also be fuelled in the US and Canada by the on-shoring of

manufacturing due to cheaper energy and steadily rising overseas labor costs.

6.2.1 New materials and new approaches to just-in-time

Printers will be able to handle more types of materials, will be able to create products based on mixed

material types, will improve output quality, reduce in cost, and improve their production speed.

Beyond 3D printers, expect to see a broader new category emerge, that of local, just-in-time

manufacturing. For example, DARPA is currently investing in research to build automated sewing

machines, robots that are able to assemble an entire garment without any human interaction.

Expect to see printers and other automated manufacturing technology that can print or make almost

anything, including makeup, electronics, food, clothing, organ replacements, and even houses.

6.2.2 Millennials leading the desire for customized products

As described in section 4.3.6, shoppers continue to desire customized products and they will grow to

expect at least some level of customization is offered for many product categories. This trend is

strongest amongst, but not exclusive to, the Millennial generation.

Just-in-time manufacturing technologies, including 3D printers, may offer retailers solutions that enable

them to meet the growing demand for customized products.

Challenge: Retailers will need to be prepared to deliver an increased level of customization across most

categories of product. Retailers and manufacturers will need to collaborate to understand how shoppers

will want to customize products and then design supply chains able to meet these desires. A decade

from now a customer may expect to walk into a clothing store and say, “I want this shirt, in that color, in

my size, and I’ll pick it up in 10 minutes.” All retailers should have a well-considered customization

strategy that identifies how they will introduce customization to each product category over time.

6.2.3 Customized products require new design thinking

Customized products may also take on a social element with shoppers able to buy products in retail that

were created or modified by friends or other “citizen designers” located elsewhere in the world. A

shopper in Tokyo might buy a teapot, based on an original Spanish design, but that was modified by an

up-and-coming student designer in London and printed at their local store in Ginza.

This concept inevitably calls into question the notion of design copyright and may feel very

uncomfortable for designers that are used to exerting absolute control over the look and feel of an end

product. Strong consumer demand for customized products could lead to a significant shift in design

thinking. Designers and manufacturers might choose to make their products more appealing to

customizers by leaving certain design elements open and flexible.

43

Challenge: Manufacturers will need to design for customization. They will need to make products that

can be turned into finished goods close to point of sale, based on the particular desires of the shopper.

Designing for customization might include thinking about modularity, leaving design windows for

customization, and collaborating with retailers to wrap compelling shopping experiences around the

customization process itself. For example, a company making eyeglasses may deliver their retailers a set

of easily assembled frame fronts, hinges, bridges, and temples. The shopper might enjoy an interactive,

gesture or touch controlled augmented reality experience to build and virtually try a set of customized

glasses that the retailer then puts together on the spot.

6.3 LOCATION

Location-based services have been a transformative boon to the modern smartphone-owner. But

location tracking has largely remained an outdoor activity. That is changing. The race is on to use indoor

location tracking to improve the customer experience and gain better insight into shopper behavior.

6.3.1 Why indoor location?

Indoor location will enable a number of new opportunities for retailers:

 Shopper insights - Retailers will be able to gain increased insight into shopper behavior and

improve their store layout and shopping experience accordingly. In-store location data can be

analyzed to understand the “footstream” of shoppers, much like insight can be divined by

analyzing the “clickstream” of online shoppers.

 Location-based offers - Retailers and manufacturers will be able to push location-based offers.

 Dynamic pricing – Retailers will be able to optimize revenue through the use of dynamic pricing