SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Technology and Analytics
SUMMARY: The text discusses various location-based technologies and techniques that retailers can use to track and engage with customers in the store.
KEYWORDS: location-based offers, dynamic pricing, indoor location tracking, shopper guidance, retail analytics
---

analyzing the “clickstream” of online shoppers.

 Location-based offers - Retailers and manufacturers will be able to push location-based offers.

 Dynamic pricing – Retailers will be able to optimize revenue through the use of dynamic pricing

that varies by shopper, by time, and by location

 Shopper guidance - Retailers will be able deliver customer-valued, location-based experiences in

the store. These include shopping guidance, route planning (using a personal shopping list to

suggest an optimal route through the store), virtual sales assistants, and more.

6.3.2 Indoor location techniques

A wide range of techniques are being developed to determine indoor location, each with varying pros

and cons. The easiest methods to deploy have low accuracy. The more accurate technologies still

require further development or refinement but will become viable within the next several years.

Location tracking comes in two main flavors:

Passive Tracking: In the passive mode the location of a shopper’s device is tracked while it is in

their pocket or purse. The customer is not interacting with their device and so this mode of

tracking is considered to be valuable only for retailers and manufacturers.

Active Tracking: In the active mode the customer is interacting with their device and seeking

some sort of information, service or experience based on their location.

44

Different location techniques are more or less appropriate for each of these two modes. Multiple

techniques are emerging to deliver indoor location. These include:

 Wi-Fi triangulation – This technique is in deployment today and uses well-established

technology. It suffers from low accuracy – around 30m. And it doesn’t work in big box stores

that have not invested in a customer-facing Wi-Fi infrastructure.

 Wi-Fi fingerprint – This is a more sophisticated version of Wi-Fi triangulation that uses learning

algorithms to map a store’s Wi-Fi signal strength profile. In early trials, this has yielded much

better precision, achieving 2-5m location accuracy.

 Bluetooth LE-based beacons – Beacons such as Apple’s* iBeacon* technology can trigger offers

to a shopper’s device when they are within range of an iBeacon transmitter. The range of the

transmitter can be adjusted to cover a small area (5m radius) or the entire store.

 Accelerometer and inertia – Using a known starting location outside the mall (sourced via GPS)

the accelerometer in a phone can be used to track motion once the GPS signal is lost. If the

shopper holds the phone so that it is fairly stable, this approach works quite well in the short

term. However it is not yet accurate enough during normal use (phone jogging around in the

shopper’s pocket) and over longer distances where measurement errors compound over time.

The accuracy of the MEMS devices inside phones will need to improve several orders of

magnitude before this will be a reliable approach on its own, however it is still useful as a way to

augment other location techniques.

 Semantic location – This approach uses additional signal processing on Wi-Fi signals to help

refine location when it is unclear which side of a wall the shopper is standing by looking for the

telltale signal attenuation created by walls.

 Ambient audio – Different stores sound different. Using a device’s microphone to sample the

ambient audio is not enough to determine absolute location but this technique can help when

used in addition to existing, inconclusive location information. For example, when near to an

inner wall inside a mall, a WiFi-based location algorithm may not be sure if the shopper is one

side of the wall in Starbucks*, or the other side of the wall in Bath & Body Works*. The sound

signature of the store could be used to make that final determination by the location software

algorithms on a device.

 Active audio – Some stores are experimenting with adding audio signatures to their in-store

piped music to help devices understand where they are.

 Visual triangulation – When devices are in active tracking mode, visual techniques can be used

to determine location by figuring out the geometry of the room they are in. Google’s Project

Tango is doing some work in this area.

 Visual fingerprint – Similar to the Wi-Fi fingerprint approach, a database of visual fingerprints

could be generated to help devices quickly assess their location in a store based on what they

can see.

 Magnetic field – In a technique similar to Wi-Fi fingerprinting, the digital compass in

smartphones can be used to assess location based on magnetic fields present inside the store.

The best accuracy will be achieved by combining several of these approaches together. Expect these

techniques to evolve over time.

45

6.3.3 How accurate is accurate enough?

The desired accuracy for indoor location depends on the use case desired.

A mall guide would be fine with perhaps 5-7m accuracy. Traffic flow analysis needs roughly 2m accuracy,

enough to assess which aisle a shopper is standing in. And a customer-facing store guide may require 1m

accuracy to be truly valuable to the shopper and guide them right to the product they are looking for.

Highly accurate indoor location information can be used to connect the digital and physical shopping

experiences and delivering location-based interactions to shoppers.

6.3.4 Location and security

Location is also interesting as an additional security measure. For card-present transactions, smartphone

location can be used as an additional verification mechanism that adds another layer of security to

protect shoppers at point of sale.

Challenge: Retailers should work with IT partners to begin exploring and investing in active and passive

location tracking as a key component of their strategy for improving the shopper experience, and to

gather the data needed to provide shopper analytics services to manufacturers.

6.4 CONSUMER DESIRE FOR PERSONALIZATION AND CUSTOMIZATION

Retailers would like to deepen and strengthen the relationship they have with each shopper. A deeper

relationship leads to increased brand affinity: more store visits, more transactions, and increased total

consumption. To achieve this, retailers must reveal and understand the shopper genome. They must