SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Future Retail Experience
SUMMARY: The text describes how retail experiences may evolve by 2030, with personalized shopping services and connected, technology-enabled cities.
KEYWORDS: retail, technology, personalization, shopping, future
---

Imagine the world in 2030. Billions of people are living in busy, vibrant, crowded cities. Many people still

living in more rural areas but they are increasingly connected to the wider world through technology.

What will the retail landscape in this world look like? What will it feel like?

In an attempt to bring this future retail landscape to life, we end this report with a short story that

explores how it might feel to experience shopping fifteen or so years in the future. Please enjoy it. While

it’s a serious effort to capture one potential version of the future, it’s designed to be a fun read and

features fictional brands and products.

Thank you for taking the time to read this report. We hope it inspired you. And we hope it offered you

plenty of food for thought as you plot your own personal journey in the future of retail.

Welcome to the Second Digital Era of Retail.

Science fiction prototype: The shopping experiences of 2030

by Steve Brown

Thrilled by the prospect of an upcoming trip to Barcelona, Susie couldn’t wait to start packing her bags

even though her journey wasn’t for several more weeks. It would be a warm spring in Spain, but here in

Minnesota the snow still clung to the trees and a chilling wind still whistled through the buildings. The

thought of wandering the ancient streets of the old city and sampling the local Catalan cuisine already

had her excited. But if she was honest, it was the inevitable shopping trips she’d need by way of

preparation that were most exciting of all. Susie loved to shop. Especially these days.

Susie arranged to meet up with some friends and they headed to her local shopping center. They were

going to make a day of it. Shopping, lunch, pedicures and all.

Susie was a member of a BuySmart, a shopping club that helped her find clothes and accessories that

matched her style, her budget, and her existing wardrobe. She paid $10 a month for the BuySmart

service, shared details on all her purchases, and had also shared information on all the important pieces

in her wardrobe that she already owned, as well as many of the valuable items that littered her

apartment. In return, the service provided her with a 24/7 virtual fashion and buying consultant, guided

her to items she might love, rewarded her loyalty with deep discounts that she really valued, and even

hooked her up with a discount on contents insurance to cover her household items. She was insanely in

love with BuySmart. They even had a full a “wardrobe as a service” offering though she hadn’t chosen to

sign up for that, yet.

Susie has already shared details on the duration, destination and purpose of her Barcelona trip with

BuySmart and it had sent her a personalized shopping list suggesting all the items she might need to

take with her. BuySmart had taken into account the Barcelona climate, the types of activities Susie was

74

likely to want to enjoy (shopping, eating at a range of restaurants, museum hopping, wine drinking, and

lots of walking), the dress code and the local culture. BuySmart would have recommended more

conservative clothing if Susie were visiting Malaysia. But there in Barcelona she’d need some new pants,

a couple of new blouses, a shawl for the cool evenings, and a new suitcase. BuySmart had calculated

that the current battered blue suitcase she owned was over five years old, Susie traveled a lot, and it

was likely time for a refresh.

Before they went anywhere else, Susie and her friends made a bee line for Blűmstrom, their favorite

store. They knew that Blűmstrom offered fair prices, incredible customer service, and would be the

place most likely to have exactly what they wanted. But above all, it was just a fun place to go and hang

out with the girls. And as Blűmstrom Club members they had access to VIP fitting rooms, enjoyed

extended warranties on any pre-owned clothing they bought, and had access to a number of other

benefits including free next hour shipping.

The BuySmart app on Susie’s device had already contacted Blűmstrom and picked a selection of new

and lightly used clothing that might meet Susie’s needs. Blűmstrom knew Susie as a regular customer

and based on their data they predicted that she was in the mood to spend today. They added in some

additional items of their own for her to try, some picked by an algorithm and some picked by a personal

shopper at the store.

The BuySmart app guided Susie and her friends to the VIP fitting room where they found that everything

was all laid out and ready to go. Blűmstrom had provided some treats and a bottle of her favorite wine

in the room for Susie and her friends to enjoy. The party began!

Susie changed into a range of outfits using the privacy zone and the ensuing fashion show was a lot of

fun. She showed off potential outfits to her friends, got all important feedback, and discarded unwanted

items down a special chute in her changing room.

One outfit looked really great on her, but was a little too expensive for her budget this month. Being

unsure on whether or not to get it, she decided to ask her husband what he thought. “If he likes it, I’ll

get it”, she thought. Eric was visiting an old friend in Chicago but she really valued his opinion.

“Video me”, she said to the changing room. A recording light came on to indicate that the cameras

around the mirror were now recording her as she spun around to show off the dress and shoes that she

loved so much. If only they weren’t going to put a such a big dent in her bank account.

“What do you think, honey? I love it, but I’m not sure it’s worth it”. She then held up her arm to halt the