SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Trends
SUMMARY: Shoppers demand convenience, efficiency, and speed, seeking seamless, frictionless shopping experiences and reduced store visits.
KEYWORDS: convenience, efficiency, shopper behavior, retail trends, immediacy
---

conversation. They have a low tolerance for inefficiency and are looking to more sustainable modes of

consumption. You will see Millennials reflected broadly in the shopper trends below.

The main changes in shopper expectations are summarized below, in no particular order:

4.3.1 Convenience, efficiency and speed

Convenience is king. Shoppers want what they want, when they want it, how they want it. And they

want to get it as quickly and as easily as possible.

Amongst some baby boomers, a stress-free shopping experience can be the number one priority they

have when deciding where to shop. But for most shoppers, the number one need is speed. These

shoppers buy things because they want them right now. They are driven by immediacy. Retailers that

can deliver products and services same day, same hour, or instantaneously will be the ones that win.

Customers are looking for fluid, seamless, frictionless shopping experiences. The last thing a consumer

wants is that their shopping journey is interrupted, whether that be by a glitchy website, an inattentive

sales assistant, or poorly designed in-store technology.

People want to get in and out of stores more quickly. There is an opportunity to reduce friction at point

of sale, and also to deploy technology that helps people quickly find and select the products they need.

Shoppers enjoy choice, though not so much choice that selection becomes confusing. Shoppers favor

retailers that help them understand their options and that simplify the choosing process.

Shoppers are also looking to reduce the overall number of stores that they have to visit in order to fulfil

their needs.

26

For example, when it comes to grocery and other regular needs, shoppers value the ability to do all their

shopping in one place if they can get it. The average number of stores shoppers visit is dropping. In the

US, according to Kantar Retail, the average number of stores people visited in 2007 was 12.4. That’s

dropped to around 9 stores in 2014. And most people have a core portfolio of just 4-5 stores that they

go to most often.

In the US, people are making 2.3 trips/week to the grocery store. Many convenience purchases are for

commodity consumables which could potentially be shifted to an automatic fulfillment and delivery

model.

Despite retail shifting to a 24/7 model in some categories and locations, impulse purchasing is declining,

in part due to the fact that people now know they can buy at any time and thus don’t need to hold

inventories at home.

Shopper efficiency has not traditionally been a focus for retailers because they aren’t paying for the

customer’s time. Yet some stores encourage purchases at 5X the rate of others. There may be an

opportunity for some retailers to differentiate themselves based on shopper efficiency (as Costco has

done).

Challenge: Traditional retailers should prepare now for the day when their immediacy advantage is

removed. If the only advantage in buying from your store versus online is immediate gratification, your

value proposition is under direct attack from looming “next hour” delivery services. These retailers will

either need to invest in other differentiators to boost their brand proposition, or ensure they have

similar delivery speeds available to customers.

Challenge: Retailers will need to seriously consider embracing auto-replenishment services. If they

don’t, they run the risk of Amazon doing it for them.

Challenge: Retailers should invest in technology that reduces friction in the product selection and

purchase process. Ideally this friction should be reduced down to zero. If your customers still have to

wait for anything, then you’re not done innovating yet. Retailers should consider developing RFID

and/or visual recognition technology to reduce checkout friction to zero, while minimizing theft. The

ideal efficient shopping experience is embodied by the concept of a local store as a “community pantry”

that enables people to walk in, grab what they need, walk out, and be billed automatically. This applies

to mission shopping and perhaps some types of experience shopping. Experience shoppers may still

prefer an interaction with a human sales assistant at checkout as part of their broader shopping

experience.

4.3.2 Experience and New Value

Shoppers want certain types of shopping to be an experience, and not just be a speedy acquisition. They

want to experience new and increased value when making a trip to a physical store. They want to be

delighted by having their expectations exceeded. Many shoppers seek the pure joy of shopping as an

activity unto itself, regardless of their need to buy. They see shopping as a day out, an escape, or an

adventure. The thrill of the chase. A time to be social and present in the physical world.

Great experience shopping is enjoyable, often has a strong social context, and is sometimes built around

an occasion that has important social or personal meaning. For example, a couple might visit a number

27

of stores to look for ideas and inspiration on a new kitchen they want to build in their home; a kitchen

they imagine filled with future children. Or a woman might be on the hunt for a dress for a special

occasion.

In experience shopping, touching, feeling, or trying out a product is often essential. Shoppers are drawn

to retailers that wrap experiential elements around shopping to amplify the sense of occasion, enable

the shoppers to make memories, or that enhance the social aspect of shopping. Champagne in the

changing room or an interactive virtual shopping assistant, for example. These all contribute to the

increased sense of meaning people can then attribute to the shopping experience itself, and by

extension to the retailer’s brand.

Challenge: Retailers selling emotional products should explore, develop, and deploy technology that

makes shopping more social, helps shoppers choose, helps them make memories, and that deepens

emotional relationships with shoppers by increasing brand and product interaction. Interactive

technologies that embrace natural interfaces and that span several of the five senses can create

memorable experiences for shoppers that create deeper relationships with brands. For example,