SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Uncategorized
SUMMARY: Could not generate summary
KEYWORDS: 
---

Today these include things like fixtures and fittings, the supply chain, inventory management systems,

loyalty card and reward systems, and point of sale terminals. Future advances in the bones of the store

might include smart infrastructure, indoor location tracking, 3D printers, robots, delivery drones, and

automated and reconfigurable store fixtures.

The Brains - All the data analytics and intelligence that is deployed through every stage of the retail

machine. This intelligence helps retailers to drive operational efficiency and better understand their

customers. This knowledge is then used to deliver a personalized set of experiences, offers, pricing,

services and products.

Thinking about the face, bones, and brains of retail is a valuable way to reframe the conversation on the

future of retail. It offers a helpful way to let go of old notions that are tied to tired retail formats. And it’s

a productive way to frame ideas for future innovation and deployments.

This report explores many ways for stores to differentiate their brand proposition and gain competitive

advantage through the deployment of technology that transform the face, bones and brains of retail.

12

These include technology designed to:

 Personalize the shopping experience (section 4.3)

 Deliver customized products (section 6.2)

 Create new business models and revenue streams (section 6.1.2)

 Enable retailers to embrace the sharing economy with and build new business models around

sharing, bartering, and renting (see section 6.5)

 Create interactive experiences in the store that exceed shopper expectations by making

shopping more efficient, more fun, or more personal (section 7.5)

 Free up sales staff in the store to deliver better customer service by automating non-value

added activities that can be mechanized or handled by algorithms.

 Augment and improve sales staffs’ selling capability using wearable technology and assistive AI

(section 6.1.3)

 Generate the maximum profit from each customer over time by using dynamic pricing that

varies by location, by customer, by product, and by the minute (section 7.5)

 Increase profits and margin by gaining operational advantage through the use of data analytics.

Such operational improvements might include using data-driven insights to optimize floor and

merchandise layout, optimize labor investment and scheduling, and deliver time- and

merchandise-right messaging by department. (section 5)

2.3 AMPLIFY YOUR INVESTMENTS BY FEEDING THE BRAIN

It’s worth noting that investment in the brains of retail can be considered as multiplicative to the other

two elements. Improving the brains can make the bones and the face of the store much more intelligent

and thus more effective.

For example, dynamic pricing at the shelf won’t truly hit the mark unless it’s backed up by cutting edge

analytics and comprehensive customer data held in the brain. Personalized experiences won’t be very

personal unless the brains can direct and choreograph them. And supply chains will only be as

streamlined and efficient as the quality of the insights distilled from operational data allow them to be.

Without a fully functioning retail brain—a brain fed by vast amounts of data and powered by

13

sophisticated analytics software—investments in the retailers’ face and bones won’t yield maximum

returns.

Shopper Experience = (Face + Bones) x Brains

2.4 WHO SHOULD READ THIS REPORT

In this paper, we will explore the output of a futurecasting session held in July 2014 at Intel’s campus in

Hillsboro, Oregon. We will reveal the team’s findings, and then explore the conclusions of the session in

detail. For details on the futurecasting process itself and insight into the incredible talent that

participated to do the futurecasting work, please read section 10.

C-suite readers should read the executive summary and may then wish to skip directly to section 8

which provides a cheat sheet summary on the main findings of the report together with a set of

recommendations for retailers. Future-looking C-suite readers are strongly encouraged to read and

absorb the contents of section 7 regarding the smart store, and most importantly section 5 on the

power data will have to transform their businesses.

Retail strategists, retail planners, and retail innovation teams will want to absorb this whole report

front to back.

Systems Analysts and IT personnel will find the full report highly valuable if they are in any way hoping

to serve the retail sector. Newcomers to the retail sector should pay particular attention to section 4

which describes many of the current challenges faced by the retail sector.

14

3 LOOKING BACK BEFORE WE LOOK FORWARD

3.1 RETAIL CAN LEARN FROM THE MEDIA INDUSTRY

Over the last thirty years, digitization has utterly transformed the media and publishing sector. A lengthy

upheaval was triggered by sustained technological change. The changes wrought on the industry

ushered in new business models, obsoleted prior expertise, changed customer expectations, and

remade the entire business landscape.

Both winners and losers emerged. Companies that embraced the digital revolution prospered and

powerful new companies like Netflix*, Spotify*, and Google* rose to prominence. Companies that either

denied the trend, or actively fought it, have since been consigned to history. We all fondly remember

Kodak*, Xerox*, and Blockbuster video*.

To understand what happened you need to understand a little about the implications of Moore’s Law.

Moore’s Law states that you can squeeze roughly double the number of transistors onto a piece of

silicon every 18-24 months. The more transistors that can be squeezed onto a tiny sliver of silicon, the

more capability computers have. Each generation, smaller transistors deliver higher performance, lower

cost, physical smaller computer chips that consume less power. This is what allows computers with

capabilities that were unimaginable even for a giant room-filling computer thirty years ago to slip easily

into our pockets and purses today.

When combined with associated advances in communications, storage and other technology Moore’s

Law disrupts business models, businesses, and entire industries. In the media and publishing industry,

the computing performance delivered by Moore’s Law was enough to trigger a series of powerful

breakthroughs that remade the entire industry, from production to distribution to consumption.