SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Transformation
SUMMARY: Retailers face challenges in unifying online and offline customer experiences, leveraging customer data, and optimizing their physical footprint.
KEYWORDS: omnichannel, customer data, real estate optimization
---

journey. Retailer online stores typically grew up separately from the core physical store business and

sometimes offer a different range of products, different pricing, and don’t share inventory. This has led

to shopper confusion and frustration. Retailers will need to unify all their systems so that customers feel

just one seamless experience that traverses multiple channels.

Challenge: Retailers are finding they have a huge “data gap” for their brick and mortar customers. They

are able to gather streams of data on shopper behavior for their online customers: purchase history,

browsing history, wish lists and more. Yet in the store, there are rarely any such data-gathering

mechanisms. Today, when a retailer’s biggest online customer walks into one of their stores, the store

staff have no idea, and so no way to react appropriately. And retailers have no way to build a unified

picture of a shopper’s profile that spans both virtual and physical space. Retailers will need to deploy IT

solutions that offer a single view of the shopper across the enterprise.

Challenge: Traditionally, retailers have spent a lot of time looking at the back-end of their business,

deploying IT in the bones of retail to help streamline their supply chain, manage inventory, and reduce

costs. This will continue, and technology still has an ongoing role to play here. But retailers also need to

look at IT in a new way. They must consider how to use IT to improve the face of retail—the front-end of

their stores—to improve their in-store experience, and to ignite sales with shoppers.

4.2.2 Footprint

Trillions of dollars of retailer’s capital is tied up in physical presence and real-estate. Increasingly

retailers are finding that the spaces they occupy are too big, and in the wrong location.

Urban populations are redistributing in bands around city centers as wealthy people return to the center

and low-income families are moving out to first-ring suburban zones. With the stagnation or collapse of

middle-class incomes, formerly affluent, high traffic malls now find themselves in trouble.

Scale once offered competitive advantage. But some retailers are finding that is no longer the case.

Startup retailers can take advantage of the cloud to source, market and deliver their products efficiently

and easily without the need for scale. Indeed scale now comes from the cloud, not from physical

presence. And pop-up stores are taking quick advantage of short-term footprint opportunities.

Unused space is a burden, and long-term leases have shifted from being strategic plays to now being

chains around retailers’ necks. Traditional retailers with large swathes of unproductive space will find

themselves less able to invest in the customer experience or to lower prices, making them more

vulnerable to newer retailers who lack this real-estate baggage.

Urbanization continues apace; by the year 2050 around 2½ billion more people will be living in cities

than today. As populations concentrate in mega-cities and mega-corridors, real-estate is getting more

expensive and stores are getting smaller.

21

Challenge: Shoppers want more in-town shopping, and more local shopping, implying smaller stores.

But they are still seeking choice, value, and a great shopping experience. Technology that creates virtual

spaces (such as the giant touch displays of virtual shelves used by Adidas* in some of their flagship

stores) or that makes more efficient use of space (such as the Hointer* store model) will enable more

products to be displayed in these increasingly smaller spaces.

Challenge: Smaller stores inevitably lead to the simple question of what products retailers choose NOT

stock. Just in time inventory will become critical. Smart retailers will use analytics to match their

inventory to customer demand, a demand that shifts both seasonally and in real-time. In a world where

not having something in stock means the loss of a sale to a competitor, algorithms will increase the

chances that a retailer has exactly what the increasingly time-pressed shopper is looking for.

In the grocery category, these small, local stores are becoming the “communal pantry”, holding

inventories of food staples for people to grab when they need it. Section 7.9 outlines a technology

proposal for a networked system of smart shelves—some in the home and some in the store—that

embraces and builds on the idea of the communal pantry.

4.2.3 Polarization

Retail stores are beginning to polarize in four interesting ways, and they are starting to polarize towards

the extremes with little or no space for a position in the middle:

Physical size (Big vs Small) - While many stores will get smaller, and move to be nearer to the consumer,

some stores will still be very big, taking advantage of scale to create a variety of in-store experiences and

abundant choice.

Product type (Emotional vs Commodity) - Brick and mortar retail will focus more on highly emotional

products where the buying process is highly experiential while smart homes will auto-order

consumables that are then delivered.

Shopping model (Shopper Value vs Efficiency focused) - Stores will either optimize to delight shoppers by

exceeding their expectations and delivering increased value: high-touch, high-tech, fun shopping

experiences built around the buying process. Or they will delight shoppers with stores built for shopper

efficiency, reduced friction and to get the customer in and out as quickly as possible for more routine

purchases. Companies like Hointer* have ably demonstrated that shopper efficiency models should not

be reserved for non-emotional product categories but can also play a role in meeting shopper needs in

emotional product categories like apparel.

Price – Price vs Value-for-money – Stores will continue to segment based on the income of the

customers they serve. As middle-class incomes continue to stagnate the polarization may continue with

some brands choosing to move up-market, and some choosing to move down-market.

22

Challenge: Retailers will need to fit in with the new rituals and routines of the changing customer and

understand the difference between ‘fast’ and ‘slow’ shopping missions. They will need to figure out how

to best meet customers’ expectations for each of these missions, and then what products, services,