SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Digital Retail Shelf Technology
SUMMARY: The text discusses the evolving nature of retail shelves, including the use of displays, virtual shelves, and the need for retailers to optimize shelf design.
KEYWORDS: digital shelves, display technology, virtual shelves, shelf design, retail technology
---

service for their manufacturers. Many will deploy shelving infrastructure that does both.

58

7.3.2 Shelves will sport a range of different displays, or no display at all

Shelves will vary in their display capabilities. Many will have no display. Some will have glorious high-end,

highly engaging displays used to merchandise products. Other models will use the shopper’s device as

the display.

Since most retailers won’t want to turn their store environments into a visual assault resembling a

miniaturized Las Vegas strip, most shelves will likely have no display, or employ the display on a

shopper’s device. However as display technology continues to develop, capabilities increase, and costs

fall, the marketing of some categories of product will benefit from a rich display capability. This might

include the use of high quality video, and ultimately “holographic” displays.

Challenge: Retailers will need to consider electronic shelf displays as part of their broader look and feel.

With proper attention paid to on-screen design, and the use of more muted display technology

(brightness will need to be set optimally for the lighting levels in the store) even an OLED or LED display

can be made to look good in a store environment. Control and constraint on the design will be

important to avoid the shelf looking like a coupon catalogue on steroids. Retailers that figure out this

recipe early on by engaging thoughtful designers and user experience expertise will be at an advantage.

7.3.3 Upgrades and new deployments

Initial implementations will need to plug and play with existing shelving infrastructure. Longer term,

more sophisticated smart shelving will replace existing infrastructure. This will be only happen when

new deployments deliver enough value to manufacturers, retailers and shoppers to justify the upgrade.

7.3.4 Virtual shelves

Some shelving will be physical while other shelves will be virtual.

Virtual shelves will enable the shopper to view a wider variety of

products than that which is available in the increasingly limited

physical space of the store. Adidas* has already done some

successful experimentation in this area with virtual space

technology. Using a set of large touch screens they created a

movable carousel of virtual shelves displaying footwear. They

placed them alongside physical racks of real shoes to create the

illusion of a virtual shelf space.

This allowed more product to be showcased in their flagship

stores where space is at a premium. Their implementation

included an interactive element that enables shoppers to

interact with the digital shoes, to learn more about their

construction, and to see the materials used to make them.

7.3.5 Different shelves in different locations

Shelves will also vary depending on their location: A smart shelf in a small local grocery store will be

different to a shelf in a big box electronics store and they will both be different than a smart shelf in

someone’s pantry or fridge. Shelves in a pantry or fridge only need to sense and gather home produce

inventory levels. Shelves in a local store will likely combine inventory and some basic sales capabilities,

59

whereas shelving in experiential retail might make use of sophisticated sales capabilities to help

shoppers discover products and move them towards a purchase decision.

7.3.6 Good, Better, Best, and Amazing

So we should expect a broad spectrum of smart shelving. These will range from simple plug-and-play

add-ons to existing shelves (basic sensors, no display, assessing shopper traffic, churn, and linger times)

up to super high-tech installations with either 2D or even 3D ‘holographic’ displays that are able to

communicate with the shopper using touch, gesture, and voice and that can see and understand the

world around them. These shelves might be capable of natural language interaction with shoppers,

understand the emotional state of the shopper, be able to make personalized offers, optimize retailer

revenue by offering intelligent dynamic pricing, act as in-store billboards so retailers can sell advertising

services to manufacturers, and more.

As technology continues to mature, and price points fall, more and more capabilities will become

possible over time. Whatever the capability, a smart shelf must deliver value to either the shopper or

the manufacturer. Ideally both. After all, history shows over and over again that technology for

technology’s sake is an utter waste of everybody’s time.

Challenge: Given the rapid speed of innovation coming to the shelf courtesy of Moore’s Law,

infrastructure manufacturers may choose to design highly modular smart shelf systems. These will allow

easy extensibility and rapid experimentation with new technology as it becomes available. A platform

approach such as this will help to boost competitiveness and at the same time control costs. It may also

enable the capture of increased value by attracting the support of software and services developers.

Challenge: Retailers will need to figure out how to capitalize on the opportunity to generate revenue

from manufacturers by creating data-led sales and marketing leads at the shelf.

Challenge: Retailers will need to think about the smart shelf as a platform for creating and delivering

new services to manufacturers, including at-shelf advertising, dynamic pricing, virtual sales assistance

and more.

7.4 THE TIP OF A MUCH LARGER ICEBERG

Deploying smart infrastructure based on Internet of things (IoT) technology is relatively useless unless

it’s connected to a back-end infrastructure that can gather, analyze, and act upon all the data gathered

by the sophisticated set of sensors in the shelf.

Section 5 discusses data in more detail, but deploying IoT solutions like the smart shelf is not for the

faint of heart. To unlock maximum value, and deliver truly personalized service to shoppers, smart

shelves will need to be supported by a sophisticated back-end server infrastructure able to gather and

store data, run the latest data analytics, and deliver support services to the shelves as needed. These

support services could include access to databases that store real-time inventory data, customer profile

data, and product information. The back-end server infrastructure may also provide video streaming

services, natural computing services and more.

60