SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Digital Retail Transformation
SUMMARY: The retail industry is being disrupted by technology and business forces, requiring retailers to embrace digital transformation and new customer-centric strategies to survive and thrive.
KEYWORDS: digital retail, online shopping, customer experience, data-driven decisions, disruptive forces
---

8

The shift to online sales has remade the retail landscape and the availability of high-speed delivery

services will probably accelerate the rise of mobile and online shopping. “Next hour” delivery capability

is emerging and will eventually become widespread, removing the immediacy advantage for traditional

retailers. Autonomous delivery vehicles, drones, and robots will slowly emerge and boost online delivery

speed and convenience even further. Traditional retail will need to focus on highly emotional products

where the buying process is highly experiential. Most consumables will eventually be automatically

ordered by smart homes and scheduled for delivery.

Membership shopping clubs are becoming wildly popular with shoppers. For retailers they alter

shopper’s behavior and create lock-in. Shoppers love the added value they derive from a broader

ecosystem offering and reward retailers by giving them “first option” selling advantage. Retailers that

earn this right will enjoy deeper customer insight and will be able to sell across and up as they delight

customers with a broad ecosystem of personalized value.

The retail sector is about to be disrupted by a set of technology and business forces that will reshape the

retail landscape in the next decade. Winners in this era will partner broadly and make the short term

and long term investments necessary to embrace these disruptive forces and create new value for their

customers, their suppliers, and their shareholders. Losers will fight or ignore these unstoppable trends

and ultimately will disappear from the high street.

We will see a speedy transition from retailing led by traditional merchants schooled in the traditional

4P’s of traditional retailing (price-product-place-promotion) to retailing led by smart, informed retailers

that make swift, data-based decisions based on deep insight into retail operations and the ever-

changing customer journey. This is the true power of the second era of digital retail: vast amounts of

data gathered by smart infrastructure and analyzed by powerful computing installations to help retailers

grow profitable, responsive retail businesses that shoppers love.

Retailers that want not just to survive but to thrive through this period of transformation will find a set

of highly actionable next steps and recommendations throughout this document. For convenience they

are also summarized together in chapter 8.

Welcome to the Second era of digital retail. Let’s jump in.

9

10

2 INTRODUCTION

The $15 trillion retail sector is now evolving at the speed of the Internet. To thrive and survive in retail,

companies now need to innovate at that same pace. That means businesses increasingly need to be

virtual, not just physical. By digitizing the entire business flow, retail will become more responsive to

customer needs, able to personalize the shopping experience for each and every customer, and be able

to continually tune and optimize their businesses operations over time.

2.1 WHY NOW? A PERFECT STORM IN RETAIL

Why is retail bracing for major change? And why is this avalanche of change coming now? The answer is

that retail is about to experience a perfect storm of change fueled by a wide set of powerful

technological, social, demographic, ecosystem, business, and economic forces.

In the next decade, this perfect storm will drive a massive reimagining of retail. This will present both

huge opportunities and huge challenges to all the players in retail, across all sectors. This report explores

these forces and reviews specific actions retailers need to begin planning for now. These actions will be

the difference between sustained, profitable growth and being consigned to the retail graveyard.

The major forces on the future of retail are:



Customer expectations – Changing shopper demographics, increased choice, and exposure to

new technology mean that customers now have rapidly evolving attitudes towards shopping.

Shoppers have a new set of expectations related to omni-channel shopping, customization,

efficiency, transparency, and the quality of the experience itself.

11



Manufacturer expectations – Suppliers want increased visibility into retail operations and

expect new services from retailers including shopper analytics, targeted advertising, and other

analytics and insights.



Disruptive technology - Moore’s Law is now delivering amounts of computing capability at costs

and physical sizes that will soon disrupt retail and other sectors.



Global economic slowdown – Retailers are operating in an increasingly over-saturated and

highly competitive retail sector. They are playing a zero-sum game where an increase in sales for

one retailer comes at the loss of a competitor. Competitive forces are therefore on the rise.



Online explosion – The shift to online sales has remade the retail landscape forever and

requires totally new thinking in the omni-channel, 24/7 shopping landscape. While 90% of sales

remain in brick-and-mortar stores, many shoppers are researching and making decisions using

online channels. The shift towards online will continue to disrupt retail as increased delivery

speeds remove immediacy as a channel advantage for traditional retail.

The resulting combination of these forces is leading to one of the biggest transformations in retail in

decades and is ushering in the Second era of Digital Retail.

2.2 THE FACE, BONES, AND BRAINS OF RETAIL

A helpful way to think about the future of retail is to consider the face, the bones, and the brains of

retail. These constructs will occasionally be referenced throughout this report.

The Face – All the customer-facing elements of the store used to maximize the shopper experience in a

way that makes mission shopping more efficient, and experience shopping more enjoyable. These

include merchandising, signage, and other look and feel elements of the store. Future advances in this

area might include interactive brand experiences, virtual shopping assistants, and spectacular

holographic displays. The face is also the place that data is gathered on the shopper and fed to the brain.

The Bones – All the retail elements that sit behind the face to feed the store and shopping experiences.

Today these include things like fixtures and fittings, the supply chain, inventory management systems,

loyalty card and reward systems, and point of sale terminals. Future advances in the bones of the store