SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Data-Driven Retail Operations
SUMMARY: Retailers are leveraging data and analytics to improve operational efficiency, create personalized customer experiences, and generate new revenue streams.
KEYWORDS: data analytics, operational insights, personalized services, revenue generation, IoT
---

knowledge, insight and wisdom. This insight allows them sell targeted advertising and deliver

personalized services and value that is based on a deep understanding of each individual.

Retailers that invest in building out “data derricks” in their stores—sensors and other instruments that

can gather valuable insight into operations and shoppers—will put themselves at a significant advantage

versus the competition and potentially create new revenue streams by selling data and analytics

services back to their suppliers.

As the front-end face and back-end infrastructure bones of retail become infused with a myriad of

sensors retail operations will generate vast amounts of data. This data will be collected everywhere from

the warehouse loading dock, though the store shelf, to point of sale and beyond. Smart products will

even report insight back to retailers on product usage, reliability, and more, long after the sales

transaction has completed. This is the magic of the Internet of Things (IoT) as every object can

potentially become smart, connected, and sensing. Truly, this could change everything in retail.

33

34

The gathering and analysis of data will increase revenue and profitability for retailers in several

important ways:

1. Data will enable retailers to make improvements to operational efficiency based on

unprecedented operational insight they have gained from data analytics. These might include

using insights to optimize floor and merchandise layout, optimize labor investment and

scheduling, and deliver time- and merchandise-right messaging by department.

2. Data will enable retailers to create new value and deliver personalized value to customers;

shopping experiences that save customers time, generate delight, and increase brand loyalty.

3. Retailers will be able to monetize their data-gathering efforts and defray the costs of data

deployments by selling data analytics services and insights back to manufacturers and other

suppliers.

Challenge: Retailers and manufacturers are going to be faced with managing a huge explosion in the

amount of data they need to collect, store, manage, protect, and analyze. They will need to do this cost

effectively, and in a way that extracts maximum value from the data; Value for them, for manufacturers,

and for shoppers.

While dealing with all this new complexity, retail enterprise structures will need to keep a close eye on

security. Retailers continue to be large targets for cybercrime, and security will be an ongoing (and

never-ending) war against ever-more sophisticated hackers and criminals. (See section 4.2.4).

Challenge: Retailers will need to introduce data-driven analysis into their traditional “gut-driven”

decision-making process. This combination of art and science melds creativity with a deep, data-based

understanding of the shopper psyche so retailers can design and build new and innovative retail

propositions that delight customers.

Challenge: Retailers will need to understand how to use the insights they derive from data to create

increased loyalty, brand connections, greater efficiency, and ultimately translate that into greater profit.

To do this, they are likely to need some outside help.

5.1 PARTNER WITH OR ACQUIRE DATA TALENT

Moving data around costs money, and as smart infrastructure—including smart shelves, smart

warehouses, and smart delivery networks—spews out vast amounts of data, decisions will need to be

made on where and how that data is processed. Some data will be processed in the cloud, but much will

be processed at the edge (in the store, or even at the shelf) using intelligent gateways that mitigate or

reduce the need to send bits all the way to the cloud. Optimizing data gathering and the associated

computing, storage, and network architectures needed to handle it will be critical to minimizing OpEx

costs. Architecture will also be dictated by privacy needs and regulations that will vary from country to

country.

Challenge: In some cases, retailers will need to boost their own data acumen and may need to acquire

data engineering and data analytics talent. In a game where the retailer that best understands and best

serves their customers wins, it may be that the retailers with the best team of mathematicians and thus

the best analysis are the ultimate winners.

35

Winners will also be the fastest to innovate and deploy new data-gathering technology in ways that

improve the shopping experience by creating new value for shoppers.

Challenge: Retailers will need to think carefully about the right balance of insourcing and outsourcing to

optimize speed, differentiation and thus competitive advantage.

Challenge: Retailers will need to build strategic partnerships with experts in data management, network

and data architecture, security and encryption, privacy, analytics, data hosting, cloud, and storage.

Whether through building partnerships and outsourcing data services, or through hiring and acquisition,

retailers will need to invest in building a scalable data capability. This will enable retailers to

differentiate by proving a better customer experience both online and offline.

5.2 UNIFYING ONLINE AND OFFLINE DATA

Understanding a shopper as a “customer of one” means building a picture of them that spans right

across the omni-channel customer journey.

Today online retailers gather data on customers in the form of clicks and hovers, through the purchases

they make, and through the wish lists they compile. Once sensors are deployed in physical stores that

can gather the equivalent data set for shoppers as they wander through the store, retailers will end up

with two, discrete data sets. One for online customers, and one for in-store customers.

The challenge is to harmonize these two data sets and meld them into one detailed picture of a

shopper’s interests, habits, needs, preferences, and likely intentions. This is easy to say, but very difficult

to do.

A full picture of a shopper’s in-store activity can’t begin and end with their purchase history as it does

today. Loyalty cards linked to online accounts help retailers add in-store purchases to a shopper’s online

shopping history, creating a piece of the unified history. But retailers would love to know more. They

would love to know when shoppers came through their store and bought nothing. They would love to

know what shoppers looked at, considered, but didn’t place into their basket. They would love to know