SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Changing Consumer Attitudes Towards Ownership
SUMMARY: Millennials are increasingly preferring access over ownership, with this trend also spreading to other generations.
KEYWORDS: access over ownership, sharing economy, Millennial consumption trends, resale value, retail challenges
---

over a third of US Millennials reported that they would prefer to pay full price to access a product,

rather than own it. For older readers of this report, this finding may be jarring or perhaps even sound

unbelievable. But it illustrates a fundamental difference in attitudes around ownership between

Millennials, Generation X, and Baby Boomers. The status once inferred by ownership, and the ambition

to acquire goods as a sign of personal success, have been replaced for some people by a desire for

simplicity, efficiency, and a model of living that is more sustainable. For many older Americans and

Europeans, a car has become a sign of freedom. For younger people car ownership can feel like the

exact opposite of freedom—it needs to be insured, parked, and maintained.

Challenge: In a world where ownership is now considered gauche by some consumers, retailers will

need to challenge long-held assumptions about the shopper’s desire or aspiration to own.

This trend towards access vs ownership is led by Millennials, but is also being embraced by people in

other generations: Generation X and Baby Boomers. For example, according to The Cassandra Report,

the biggest users of the AirBNB* room-sharing service are Generation X. And sharing services, once tried,

are very popular. Again from The Cassandra Report, 91% of consumers that have used sharing services

of some kind would recommend that service they used.

This trend towards sharing services could limit future consumption as people favor access over

ownership, and the sharing economy brings the kind of efficiencies to consumption that the industrial

revolution and retail evolutions each respectively brought to production and distribution. Savvy

shoppers have already figured this out. Around 45% of Millennial consumers say they consider resale

value before making a purchase, implying that they are at least considering the option to loan, rent, or

resell their purchases in the future.

Challenge: Retailers will need to decide how best to operate in a landscape where resale value is an

important component of the purchase decision. Some may find an opportunity to differentiate

themselves by including information on estimated resale value, or the current going rates for rental, for

certain products.

6.5.4 Uncertainty ahead for retailers

The shift to a sharing economy begs many important questions. The answers to these questions could

have serious consequences for the future of the retail sector.

Will the sharing economy continue to grow, or is it just a fad? Is Millennial’s desire to have access rather

than own a direct result of limited spending power that will shift as they are able to afford to own more

goods? Or will this new habit of sharing and access prevail in the long term as Millennials see it as a

more efficient way to use their hard-earned money? How far will the sharing trend spread beyond

Millennials? Will “New only” retailers that cling to only selling brand new merchandise (and that totally

ignore the opportunities presented by the sharing economy) eventually become a thing of the past?

50

Current evidence would suggest that the sharing economy is here to stay. This is looking like it could be

a huge, long-term disruptive force in consumption, will spread to every sector of retail, and will be

embraced by every age group.

People report not only embracing the sharing economy for economic reasons, but also more complex

social reasons tied up in identity and a sense of community. This shift in identity would imply that

increased sharing is a permanent behavioral change. For example, an individual might self-identify as

being “the type of person that stays in an AirBnB* home” rather than being a “hotel person”. People

with these identities are now becoming part of broader communities of people who share similar

attitudes and outlooks. These are a set of community expectations and practices that come with being

“an AirBnB person”. How long these identities last, and how tight-knit the communities surrounding

these exchanges become, will be a key part of determining the longevity, breadth, and impact of the

sharing economy.

It is estimated that over a million cars have not been sold as a result of the car sharing schemes. Could

the $15 trillion retail sector see a broad-based reduction in sales as a result of more efficient

consumption?

Even more disturbing data for retailers comes from Kantar retail. In a recent survey of US consumers,

roughly 30% of consumers said they plan to spend less in the coming year, and about 10% say they plan

to spend more. The remainder plan to spend about the same. When asked why they planned to spend

less, 40% of Americans with household incomes over $60,000 said it is because they are simplifying their

lives by buying fewer things. We could see reduced consumption in mature markets not just in the name

of efficiency, but also as part of a broader movement to simplify, reduce, and refocus spending in other

ways, for example on services and experiences. As people embrace more efficient consumption it frees

up money to spend on services and experiences. It is estimated that by 2020, every American household

will spend $3 on services for every $1 they spend on goods.

So while the sharing economy reduces consumption in one area, it may free up discretionary consumer

spending that can be captured somewhere else.

Challenge: Manufacturers and retailers will need to think carefully about all the implications of the

sharing economy and formulate their response. Those that choose to fight or slow the trend (which may

be akin to King Canute commanding the sea to turn back) will need to remake the case for ownership

and build strategies to drive shopper desire to own rather than to just be satisfied with “mere” access.

Some retailers are already reading sharing strategies but have been reluctant to make the first move.

This would indicate that once one retailer break ranks and embraces sharing, it might be a quick rush to

market for everyone else.