SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Digital Security and Service Recovery
SUMMARY: The text describes a scenario where a customer's security is breached, but a law service and insurance policy enable a swift response and recovery.
KEYWORDS: digital security, service recovery, indemnification, security audits, self-driving delivery
---

and represented as a 3D avatar carefully selected to look as friendly and calming to Alexandria as possible, based

on her data profile. The algorithms of the law service immediately begin to run diagnostics on the system and

search for compromises. They quickly pinpoint a weakness in Alexandria’s security features that she has

inadvertently failed to keep up to date. The thieves have covered their tracks, but the algorithm traces the criminals

to a location in Ghana. The law algorithm coordinates with local Ghana law enforcement algorithms and passes

them all relevant data enabling a crime bust.

The law service checks the details of Alexandria’s SLA and finds that she signed up for an indemnity contract back in

2035 that is still in force. This covers her for losses incurred as a result of any data breach that results from using

their service. The law service instantly negotiates a settlement with Convenierge and her account is restored within

4 seconds.

As part of the settlement Convenierge sends a luxury self-driving pod to take her to the nearest doctor for

immediate assessment. The doctor and her AI algorithm examine Alexandria. They scan her body, and quickly

resequence her genome. The algorithm identifies the poison in her system and formulates a potent combo of

chemical, biological, and nanobot treatments to cleanse her bloodstream and major organs. This single pill is 3D-

printed in the office, and administered with a nice cool glass of water and a shot of whisky (now understood to

have incredible medicinal properties). She waits just 15 minutes for the treatment to act and is rescanned. Once

given the all clear, the LimoPod™ whisks her back to her apartment where her family, alerted by the Law Service to

her recent brush with death and destitution, have flown to celebrate the fact that she’s ok. There is cake, and of

course lots of healthy Irish whisky to wash it down.

The particular insights that the team drew from this science fiction prototype that they then went back

and applied to their 2024 experience were:

 Security is critical throughout

 Indemnification and remediation plans are key to building consumer trust

 Regular security audits are required to catch issues early on

 Add self-driving delivery vehicles to 2024 experience

86