SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Technology and Personalization
SUMMARY: Retailers can deploy smart shelves that can understand shopper emotions and have natural language conversations to provide personalized product recommendations and information.
KEYWORDS: smart shelves, natural language processing, personalization, retail technology, customer experience
---

deploy infrastructure that can assess and understand the current emotional state of a shopper.

7.7 CONVERSATIONS WILL BECOME NATURAL

Computers will soon be able to communicate with people in a way that is natural to us humans, rather

than in a way that is suitable for computers. Computing is going to become much more natural.

Computers will be able to see and understand the world. They will understand objects and people and

the relationships between them. They will be able to hear and understand natural human language,

sense emotional states, and understand and appreciate context. And since shelves will soon become

computers, shelves will be capable of all these things too.

Imagine a future interaction with a shopper, talking to a “natural” smart shelf:

Jack: “Shelf, where can I find basmati rice?”

Shelf: “Hi Jack, it’s on aisle 3, highlighted in yellow. You’ll also find Tikka Masala sauce on the

shelf above, 20% off today.”

Jack then walks to aisle 3 and sees the shelf area with basmati rice lit up in yellow. The shelf took a leap,

based on Jack’s previous purchase history, and offered a personalized suggestion for a sell-up item, in

this case Tikka Masala sauce.

For the merchandising of some product categories, perhaps high-value or newly-launched products,

retailers may choose to use a natural shelf with speech or display capabilities that could provide on-

demand information on the products being displayed.

A natural shelf could respond to queries like: “Show me how easy this is to install”, or “What does this

look like in orange?” These types of conversations could help move shoppers a step closer towards

purchase.

63

Natural shelves might also give the shopper an option to connect with a human who is able to answer

queries on the product and aid the sale. This connection could use audio, video, or even use avatars.

This latter technology might be of particular interest to retailers selling products for children, allowing

the child to interact with their favorite cartoon character as they learn about a new book.

Challenge: Retailers will need to understand the range of questions and concerns that typically stand

between a shopper and purchase, and ensure these are fully comprehended in the shelf’s software

algorithms.

Challenge: Some retailers may choose to differentiate by creating compelling interactive experiences in

their stores designed to engage the shopper and help them choose. Retailers will need to understand

the rapid advances being made in natural computing interfaces (speech, gesture, context etc.) and build

their deployment strategies accordingly. They should experiment early on to properly understand the

ROI of deploying such technology and the advantage it can give them in the marketplace. Retailers could

initially test deployments in high-touch product categories as a way to truly stress test the capabilities of

the technology and understand areas for future innovation.

7.8 GOING BEYOND CONVERSATIONS

As well as facilitating the conversation between manufacturers and shoppers, some smart shelves will

also be able to perform a range of other functions including:

 Loss prevention – Cameras and other sensors in the shelf could offer closer monitoring of

larcenous shoppers.

 Sample management – Smart shelves could include mechanisms to offer and dispense samples

to targeted shoppers.

 Asset management and Inventory management – Sensors in the shelf could constantly report

inventory levels for products they are showcasing, and also potentially for products across the

aisle using machine vision technology.

Once the base platform of the intelligent shelf has been established, and a set of standards emerge,

developers will continue to dream up a set of exciting new capabilities for retailers that will help

improve the shopper experience, create new value for manufacturers, enable the provision of new

revenue-generating services, and that improve the competitiveness and profitability of the store.

Challenge: Retailers should find ways to engage third party developer communities and invite them to

imagine and build new applications for their smart shelving platforms. This might include the hosting of

“Hack-a-thon” events designed to brainstorm and quickly prototype new uses that can then be quickly

tested and if successful moved into production.

64

7.9 A TIERED HIERARCHY OF SHELVES

Perhaps one of the more interesting use cases for deploying smart shelves is one that connects together

many shelves in a tiered network. This is a more distant future scenario but still worth discussing in the

context of this futurecasting report.

A shelf network would include shelves:

 In the home, both in the fridge and in the pantry

 In the local neighborhood convenience store

 In big box stores

 In distribution centers and warehouses (these could be distribution centers that feed physical

stores, or pure play online stores)

By fully instrumenting shelves, right down into the home, a new generation of algorithms could be

created that would anticipate demand and optimize the position of products within the supply chain.

This would increase availability, reduce spoilage, and limit inventory mark downs.

It would then be possible to anticipate local community demand not just by looking to historical

consumption patterns but by understanding the real time in-home consumption of local residents.

Further, if residents opted in to a secure, perhaps anonymized service to share their calendars, this

aggregated demand forecast could also take into account the travel schedules of shoppers. High security

and the guarding of privacy would be essential in this scenario.

A set of networked, instrumented shelves

might also enable a new set of neighborhood

focused sharing services, embracing the

sharing economy at the local community level.

The “I need to borrow a cup of sugar” model

of old could be facilitated as an opt-in

neighborhood service for community-

oriented neighbors that chose to participate.

Need an onion? The system could let you

know that neighbor Alice has seven and

probably won’t eat them all, facilitate a

request, and even handle cross-billing so that

Alice got paid for her onion.

A smart, connected recipe system connected

into this tiered shelving system could suggest

menus optimized around the ingredients