SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Digital Retail Trends
SUMMARY: The text discusses key trends in digital retail, including personalized shopping experiences, the shift from ownership to access, and the rise of omni-channel shopping.
KEYWORDS: Personalization, Sharing Economy, Omni-channel Retail
---

each shopper as best they can and have the intelligence and analytics capabilities in place to enable

them to make every experience in the store both personal and relevant. See section 5 for more detail.

4.3.7 Ownership to access and association

Led by Millennials, shoppers in mature markets are becoming less interested in owning things.

Aspiration towards ownership was a way to demonstrate success, but in some markets this is now giving

way to more efficient models of consumption. Rather than seeking to own, some consumers now prefer

simply to have access to products and services only when they need them. “Next hour” delivery speeds

will make this shift even more attractive. Why own an infrequently used item like a hammer when you

can have one delivered to you in minutes anytime you need to hang a picture? See section 6.5 on the

sharing economy for more details.

In an associated trend, some Millennials now feel a reduced need to own or even access a product in

order for it to reflect positively on their personal brand. Rather than buy a Louis Vuiton* purse, or a

shiny new Vespa* moped, some Millennials report instead being equally satisfied merely “pinning”

these products and brands on their Pinterest* page. That association alone is enough, and purchase is

no longer necessary or even desirable in some cases. According to The Cassandra Report, half of

Millennials visit the shops and browse for things they don’t want, don’t need, and don’t intend to buy.

They browse for fun and without any consumption goal in mind.

Challenge: Retailers will need to fully understand the sharing economy, its implications, and its likely

evolution. They will need to build out a considered strategic response that fully addresses what could be

a major threat to their existing business model. This response might include aspects that embrace the

trend, and others that seek to retard it and that remake the case for ownership. See section 6.5 for

more details.

4.3.8 Omni-channel

The path to purchase has become way more complex. The shopper journey—spanning awareness,

familiarity, consideration, conversion, purchase, and loyalty—is anything but linear. Shoppers don’t see

a difference between online and in-store shopping. It’s all just shopping to them. And with a shopper

population that is now connected 24/7, every moment is a potential shopping moment.

Shoppers are engaging with brands and products using a range of devices. The device they choose varies

depending on time of day and mood: desktop, smartphone, tablet and laptop. Shoppers want to be able

to begin shopping on one device and perhaps complete their transaction at a later time and on a

different device.

Ordering and fulfillment are becoming separated. Shoppers can build a shopping basket online over a

period of days and then have their orders fulfilled when they visit the store.

30

Retailers should imagine a range of shopping experiences in the future that span gracefully across

multiple channels in this way.

Challenge: Retailers need to be able to hold and maintain a conversation with shoppers that spans

across all these devices and also across the physical retail space. They need to do so seamlessly and

without creating any friction for shoppers.

Challenge: Retailers must have a consistent message across the shopper journey between the physical

and digital worlds, and there must be no distinction between physical and virtual inventory.

31

32

5 IT’S ALL ABOUT THE DATA

At the core of the coming transformation of the retail sector (and many other sectors for that matter)

will be the gathering, analysis and use of data. This will occur throughout the entire retail operation.

Traditionally, retailers have relied upon human-generated insight to determine business strategies,

tactics, and to set the direction for innovation efforts. The future winners in the retail sector will be

those that can master the collection and analysis of data to generate unique insights into their

operations and to better understand customer needs and wants. Data will enable retailers to build a

much more intimate relationship with each and every customer and to deliver personalized experiences

and increased value to customers in a way that builds brand affinity.

Retailers are already gathering a significant amount of data from customers through digital web and

mobile interactions. They can monitor and analyze every purchase, every click, and even every mouse

hover. Sensor systems capable of gathering similar customer activity data in the physical store

environment are already beginning to be deployed. These allow retailers to gain insight into customer

habits, traffic, linger time, analyze store hot spots, understand product churn, and much, much more.

The wide availability of cheap and capable new sensors, combined with a bounty of computing

capability at price points and in form-factors that have previously not been possible, will usher in an era

of in-store data gathering that will produce an avalanche of data. This data will fuel analytics tools that

will generate incredibly detailed insight into every aspect of the retail operation and will enable fine-

tuning of the delivery of all retail value.

It has been said that data is the new oil. This is not a bad analogy. Data is a commodity that must be

extracted and refined before it becomes valuable. Oil companies invest money to build oil derricks to

suck crude oil from the ground giving them the ability to refine it and turn it into valuable gasoline, jet

fuel, and plastics. Data companies build “data derricks” to extract data from the world using a range of

hard and soft sensors. Examples of data derricks include Google Gmail*, Twitter*, Facebook*, traffic

flow sensors, Nest* thermostats, and numerous others. Huge, successful companies are making billions

of dollars by analyzing (or refining) the data generated by these sources and turning them into

knowledge, insight and wisdom. This insight allows them sell targeted advertising and deliver

personalized services and value that is based on a deep understanding of each individual.

Retailers that invest in building out “data derricks” in their stores—sensors and other instruments that