SOURCE: Retail Futurecasting - 2nd wave of digital retail - Rev 1.1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.04 HFT - Futurecasting
TOPIC: Retail Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges and opportunities for retailers in embracing the sharing economy and incorporating services into their business models.
KEYWORDS: sharing economy, business model innovation, retail services, product servicification, digital transformation
---

Some retailers are already reading sharing strategies but have been reluctant to make the first move.

This would indicate that once one retailer break ranks and embraces sharing, it might be a quick rush to

market for everyone else.

Challenge: Retailers that decide to partially or fully embrace the sharing economy will need to have a

brave rethink of their current business models and look for ways to create new and compelling

propositions for their customers, and new ways of defining and thinking about their own value (see

section 6.5.5 for some ideas).

Challenge: Retailers should consider strategies to capture newly freed discretionary consumer spending

dollars if/when sharing does reduce traditional consumption and thus frees up funds. This might take

the form of diversification into new businesses providing consumers with new services or experiences.

51

6.5.5 “Servicification” of the world

As shoppers shift their spending towards services and away from buying goods, manufacturers and

retailers will need to find ways to wrap services around products to grow future revenues.

These services not only create opportunities for increased revenue and value creation, but also can

create customer stickiness and increase loyalty. Section 6.1.2 offers a simple example of services made

possible as products becoming smart, connected and sensing courtesy of the computing capabilities

coming in the next decade from Moore’s Law.

Often it is the combination of the sharing economy with the evolution of products to become ‘smart’

that creates that biggest opportunities for both product and business innovation.

Challenge: Manufacturers and retailers, many of whom have expertise in product development but who

may not have a core competency in services, should start exploring service opportunities and either

hire, buy or partner with appropriate expertise to build out adjacent service offerings. The nature of

many products will change in the coming decade. ‘Dumb’ products will be replaced by ‘smart’ products.

And smart products create a profound opportunity for the creation of new revenue streams and new

business models that can boost revenue and profitability. Retailers and manufacturers that understand

and harness this first will reap huge benefits.

6.5.6 Conclusions on the sharing economy

The sharing economy is a potentially disruptive and very scary threat to traditional retailers. On the

flipside, it also presents a number of opportunities for retailers that choose to embrace it:

 Retailers could experiment with leasing and rental services for a range of product categories (for

example Best Buy* is shifting from selling consumer electronics components to leasing home

theaters as a service).

 Retailers could devote a portion of their footprint to selling lightly used products alongside new.

 Retailers could serve as an indemnification service to guarantee used products they are reselling,

thereby justifying higher margins by assuming some of the risk for shoppers.

 Retailers could facilitate loaning, bartering and renting services and serve as a reputation

management system between sellers and shoppers.

 Retailers could partner with manufacturers to develop a range of smart products specifically

designed for sharing. For example, Mercedes* combined GPS, mobile, web, RFID, and computing to

make its Smart cars truly smart and connected when it created its Car2Go* service. This

technological upgrade made it much easier for them to deliver a car as a service.

6.5.7 The social economy

Shoppers are increasingly more likely to trust reviews and product insights from friends on social

networks than from ‘official’ reviews and tests. The use of social networks is bringing greater efficiency

to shoppers as they pulse their networks for advice on purchases, or for reassurance on an impulse buy.

Challenge: Retailers will need to figure out how to integrate social networking throughout the entire

length of the shopper journey: from initial discovery, to the decision process, through purchase and

beyond to building after-sales loyalty.

52

6.6 CLUBS AND MEMBERSHIPS

Membership shopping clubs have proven popular with shoppers. For retailers they create customer

lock-in and change shopper’s behavior to give them “first option” advantage.

From Costco* to Amazon Prime*, memberships can offer great value to shoppers. Kantar retail

estimates that club memberships will rise 5.6% CAGR from 2014-2019. Amazon Prime is now used by

almost 1 in 5 US households and boasts over 20 million members. It is particularly popular with

Millennials. Costco membership fees make up a large part of their annual profit.

6.6.1 Clubs change shopper behavior

The most notable thing about memberships is that they change people’s behavior. Amazon Prime

members shop at Amazon at twice the rate of non-members. People often join for the free 2-day

shipping that Amazon Prime offers, but stay for the additional benefits afforded by being a part of the

Amazon ecosystem: free instant streaming video, the Kindle lending library, and more. Members exhibit

an ‘Amazon first’ mentality whereby 49% of them report that when looking for a product they will go to

Amazon first before going anywhere else. Amazon’s sales can in part be attributed to their high success

rate turning these inquiries into sales. As a result of this ‘Amazon first’ behavior, 1 in 5 Amazon Prime

customers say they have reduced their shopping at other retailers.

Memberships and clubs could be a critical component of any strategy designed to lock in customers and

increase future revenue.

Challenge: To compete with Amazon Prime and other emerging membership-based ecosystems,

retailers may need to make large investments to build out trusted platforms, programs, and services

that deliver increasing value to shoppers. They will need to build ecosystems of value that attract

members and keep them signing up year after year. Those that do will benefit from increased ability to

deliver personalized value, more cross and up-selling, and enjoying much deeper insights into shoppers.

See section 4.2.4 for discussion on the security and privacy implications for handling all the personal

data that such membership schemes would generate.

6.7 DELIVERY NETWORK DISRUPTION WILL FURTHER STRENGTHEN ONLINE

High-speed delivery could totally tip the balance in the battle between traditional and online retail.