SOURCE: Running with Bulls & Bears_The Sydney Morning Herald.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Leadership
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges faced by business leaders, including being bullied by politicians, and compares the investment journey to a marathon.
KEYWORDS: business leadership, political bullying, investment journey, marathon, self-improvement
---

ak

The Sydney. Morning Herald

‘| have found that some politicians . e

- threatening people who hav e spoken

The National Australia. Bank chairman, Michael Chaney; at a c¢

concern about Labor potiticians bullying big. business leaders,

an d be e ar 5) Clear View Wealth JK Murphy

Andean Resources

carsales.com:,

East Energy:Resources. HM Basso-Brusa...

W Hubert

The comparisons between investments.

‘and marathons are hardly néw, or inspir-,

ing, based as they are on some of the worst

ofthe sharemarket's motherhood statements:

about “longterminvestment", :

‘The more obvious and repeated includ

> Youhave to planand set goals; |”

Season rdandihdt willlook

steps and thé long ter!

attri en Bed eines,

» 1 percent elation, 99 percents slo Neural

FWin ot lose, participation is an e \

> Others will blow past youall the time, Run your:

own race;

> Don't stop: There is nothing there;’

» After the wall lies the well of endurance

> You will wish you had done more training

F You will certainly question “Why: amI dol g

this?” Know the answer; :

» Whatever the result don't fear it; rationalise ith

> Atthe very least you will find outa lot about,

yourself and you will be better for itwhatever; |

> 90 percent of success isjust showing up. .

There was atime I would have considered a.

marathon a madness but having discovered run-

ning with my rather more athletic wife a couple

of years ago I know there's so much more to it,

Runningis the foundation human exercise.

precedes the neatly as honest and more neces-

sary exercises of fighting and swimming, ranks. .

ahead of essentially pointless sports like rugby,

Australian rules, netball, tennis and football and

ranks well ahead of equipment-based activities

suchas cycling and motorracing and, can we:

possibly mention them inthe same sentence; the

other very popular sportslike fishingand golf. °°

“With running there are no accessories, no“tal-. THF BEST

ent” you can rely on, no birth rite, justendless”

preparation and effort. Getting up in the morn; | ASY*

ing and moving those arms and legs. It’s aboutas as * Cor

honest asit gets and the purity of it provides ar r

“niversal medium to judge and compare «"*’ .

» selfimprovement, your ability’

-anquers others is str

tele?