SOURCE: Sale set up and store closure times.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2013
TOPIC: Retail Sales Strategy
SUMMARY: Encourages keeping stores open past closing time to maximize sales during the holiday season.
KEYWORDS: retail sales, customer service, holiday sales, store operations, customer-focused
---

[Document: Sale set up and store closure times.docx]

Dear All

It’s about this time of the year when we are preparing for the sale set up process and organising meetings around the country, I’d like to remind everyone that there is a huge opportunity in our brands post the normal closing time i.e. Christmas Eve day.  Every year it amazes me how quickly retailers are pulling down their shutters when the centres are as full as they can be and customers are powering.

In all our brands, sale set up takes several hours and we have all of our team rostered.  When all other stores are closed and closing, customers are grateful that we are open and letting and welcoming them to buy, even if we are tearing apart our stores at this time it does not matter to the customers and there are huge dollars to be taken.

Please ensure we stay open and drive this - remember “it is about the Customer, always” is not a policy or a fancy slogan it’s our way of life - we must keep the store open, we stay open until we have concluded our sale set up and we are all going home. This is the only way that we can serve the customers whilst they are still wanting to buy.

There is no such thing as a customer being a disruption to whatever we are doing.  Of course I realise that we have cashing up procedures and issues, but we need to work around those, there are many people in the store and this should not be a reason to be pushing customers out or not allowing them to come in.

If there are any issues that I may not be aware of please let me know.

I’ll send another reminder closer to Christmas so we keep all of our regional and state managers on top of this.

If there are any issues or concerns preventing the above as our only outcome and that I may not be aware of, please let me know.

Thanks

Brett Blundy

It’s about the customer, always!