SOURCE: Slave for a Day.pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Uncategorized
SUMMARY: Could not generate summary
KEYWORDS: 
---

[Document: Slave for a Day.pptx]
[Presentation Topic: Employee Engagement/Reward Program]

[Slide 1]

BBRC“Slave for a Day”

[Slide 2]

The best performing store over their product sales target for Vacuum Beads launch (May 11 to May 24) wins “The Chief” for a day as a Slave!

Winner:

Midland Gate (Kayla) – exceeded budget by over 2.5 times:  August 7

[Slide 3]

Midland GateGreg Milne – Exec Chairman

Jobs:

Glue glass heads back onto over 50 damaged Rose & Lotus Tea Light Holders

Rubbish runs

Re-organise, clean  and sweep Off-Site (remove cockroaches and dispose of rubbish) and bring stock forward.

Floor Fill during day

Repair broken light globes

Store Comments (Kayla):

We thought Greg looked pretty spunky dressed in a pink apron and yellow gloves with black feathers and flowers attached!

Greg connected with customers well great product knowledge and was great at re filling the shelves

Greg did a great job at sticking the heads on lotus's that had fallen off, He did sweep the cockroaches from offsite so we didn't have to touch them

Greg needs to work on timing when doing "tasks" as some jobs had taken him quite awhile to get done – needed to be whipped into shape at times…

Incidents of Interest:

Was given a counselling for answering a mobile phone call in store (the fact it was Brett on the phone didn’t matter)

Results: Store was +22% comps for the day and +19% on Budget

[Slide 4]

For the week Monday 4th May – Sunday 10th May 2009, the store to achieve the highest % increase on budget for the entire week would win David MacLean as Slave for a Day!

Winning store could pick any day in which David would be their slave

Winners:

Tea Tree Plaza (Janet) – July 28th

[Slide 5]

Tea Tree Comments

Store Manager (Janet)

“He charmed every customer that walked through our door. We would approach them and get ‘pushed away’. He would go up to the same customer and get a positive response straight away.”

“You can see how much David loves the product and he sells it with 100% enthusiasm. He just keeps adding on and they keep saying ‘yes’.”

Team Member (Yvette):

“We couldn't believe that someone in his position would give his time so wholeheartedly to the day.”

Area Manager (Julie)

David’s first customer of the day he signed her up as a LLC member and charmed her to bits.”

Incidents of Note:

Time docked from his lunch hour due to late arrival into store

David finally learned how to do a "hospital corner" when making beds, a skill he is going to impress his wife with!

David wanted to know what happened to afternoon tea break!

Results: Store  achieved budget for the day and signed up 4 Linen Lovers members

[Slide 6]

Start Date  -  Monday 29th June 2009

Finish Date  -  Sunday 12th July 2009

To Win  -  Firstly, to be eligible to win store MUST achieve its sales budget for the two week promotion period.  Then the store that achieves the highest Average Items KPI for the promotion period will win!

This promotion was run at be State level.

The winning store in each state will win a day where the State and Area Managers will be slaves. Trudy and Nicole will also be slaves in some of the winning stores.

Winners:

Homebush

Cairns DFO

Manukau

Westlakes

Bunbury

Waterfront City DFO

Armidale.

[Slide 7]

Store Comments

Homebush:

The manager at the Homebush store coordinated with the Warehouse Manager to hold back a days stock so that it all would be delivered on the day that the slaves were in here store. The one thing she didn’t count on was receiving store to store transfers also being delivered on this day.  In the end Homebush was delivered 115 cartons.  The NSW BNT slaves, Trudy and Nicole were exhausted by the end of the day.

Homebush also had a famous customer on our Slave for a Day . We had Charlie from High 5 shopping in the store.

Bunbury:

Simone and Angela were dressed appropriately for Slave for a day in their full contamination suits.  Some of the customers in the centre did not agree with this.

Security came into the store and advised them that they are to no longer to leave the store as customers were concerned that their was some sort of contamination in the centre, especially with Swine Flu being all over the news.

Results: 	Cairns DFO: 197% over budget

Docklands: 39% over budget

Homebush: 30% over budget

Manakau: achieved budget

Westlakes: 46%  over budget

Bunbury: 24% under budget

Armidale: 33% over budget

[Slide 10]

Diva ran the “Slave for a day” comp on Friday 8th & Saturday 9th of May (Mother’s Day weekend)

The store with the highest increase on last year’s sales (for the Friday & Saturday) wins John Kelly  or Shane Fallscheer `as a “Slave for a day”!

Winners:

John Kelly: Doncaster (Kim) – August 7

Shane Fallscheer: Bunbury (Sophia) – August 7

[Slide 11]

DoncasterJohn Kelly – CEO

Jobs:

These jobs included polishing the floor till it was sparkling clean , cleaning the extremely hard chandeliers, replenishing the wall bays  and merchandising the new range Roaring 20’s!

Store Comments (Kim):

“John worked really well; he worked the whole day without lunch! But I’m a pretty hard boss though...ha-ha

He mopped his little heart out in the morning, and really struggled with the mop - it gave him a bit of a hard time, but I believe it was just he had never used one before..

We had him try to clean our light bulbs but he weaselled his way out of that one as he said they were too hot!!! Excuses excuses!

John went through and doubled checked ring sizes and planograms and did a very thorough job... I was quite impressed!