SOURCE: Slave for a Day.pptx
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Operations
SUMMARY: The text describes employees from different roles temporarily taking on various tasks in a retail store, providing insights and improving store operations.
KEYWORDS: retail operations, employee experience, store performance
---

[Document: Slave for a Day.pptx]
[Presentation Topic: Employee Engagement/Reward Program]

He mopped his little heart out in the morning, and really struggled with the mop - it gave him a bit of a hard time, but I believe it was just he had never used one before..

We had him try to clean our light bulbs but he weaselled his way out of that one as he said they were too hot!!! Excuses excuses!

John went through and doubled checked ring sizes and planograms and did a very thorough job... I was quite impressed!

All in all he put in a hard day’s work, we we're all quite surprised at how pleasant it was to have him in the store and how much he put in to it... It gave him a great insight for what we do on a day to day basis....  He would of been so tired when he got home... and he would of been STARVING – no lunch break!”

Incident: of Interest:

A customer tried to buy him

Results: Store was +91% comps for the day

[Slide 12]

BunburyShane Fallscheer - Chairman

Jobs:

As Shane is tall, the team had him up on a ladder getting to all those hard to reach places !

Shane also set to work on cleaning all of their range headers and signage holders; he merchandised their ring gondola & re-ticketed their Collection pieces!

Store Comments (Jasmine):

We had Shane cleaning all of our lights, windows, wall bay signs, store entry line (really dirty!) and a few other things...

He was constantly seeking our opinion on how he was going and if it was up to our standards or not, and was really hard working and did whatever we said!

He was a joy to have in the store and made the day one to remember

Incidents of interest:

Shane down on his hands & knees cleaning the door track with a toothbrush  looking very pretty in a pink headband!

Results: 17% up on Budget and 1% up on Last Year

[Slide 13]

Winners:

Whyalla

[Slide 14]

WhyallaRay Itaoui – CEO

Jobs:

Cover Checking – entire store…and then some more!

Re-price i.e. remove and re-sticker old campaign titles – hundreds of them.

Scrub all Chart Walls and make them look like new

Scrub clean the counter

Comments from Store Team:

“It felt weird to look over and see Ray changing stickers on hundreds of DVD’s with me at the counter. He was so helpful.”

“I didn’t realise Ray could clean that well”

“Do you think he would do weekend covers for me in Whyalla?”

“ I got more add-ons than Ray!!”

Incidents of Note:

A customer who tried to go on Australian Idol sang to Ray!!  The disruption and reaction of other customers in the store proved why the judges didn’t put her through!!

Results: Store missed plan by only $180

[Slide 15]

BBRC“Slave for a Day”