SOURCE: Solve the Succession Crisis by Creating Inside-Outside Leaders (HBR).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.02 HFT - Succession Planning
TOPIC: Leadership Succession Planning
SUMMARY: Boards often seek outside leaders to quickly cut costs, but this short-term approach destroys long-term value; instead, companies should cultivate inside-outside leaders with deep industry and company knowledge.
KEYWORDS: succession planning, leadership development, organizational change, inside-outside leaders, shareholder value
---

When company performance disappoints, boards of directors tend to seek a white knight from

the outside to come in and change everything. Most of the time, the only way to change things

fast is to cut costs—which is exactly what someone unfamiliar with the specifics of an industry

and its markets, or the company and its people, is likely to do first. Yet a study by Booz Allen

reports that outsider CEOs who make a quick mark by cutting costs generally fail to succeed in

the long run: After two or three early years of squeezing more to the bottom line, the CEO

leaves or sells the company. This short-term orientation destroys value in the medium and long

terms. The seeds of growth are eliminated along with overhead.

When a board looks inside for future leaders, all too often it sees men and women who don’t

seem to have the stature and vision to lead. In the board’s view, they are good operators, but

they lack a strategic sense: They have never run a business in anything like the circumstances that

loom on the horizon. And where no systematic effort has been made to build future leaders, that

perception may be correct.

2

But there’s no better way to reverse the long-term destruction of shareholder value than for

companies to commit themselves to growing executives from inside the company who are

prepared to lead through good times and bad. Simple? No. The right thing to do? Absolutely.

Consider the four skills that a new CEO needs to drive a company forward and produce the

results cited above:

 Judge where the world and the company’s markets are headed, and frame a vision of how

the company should reposition itself.

 Identify (and if needed recruit) the talent that can turn this vision into reality.

 Understand, in a deep and substantive way, the problems the company faces.

 Know, comprehensively, how the company really works—in other words, be plugged

into its administrative inheritance and know key players well.

True, carrying out these tasks requires a clear outside perspective. Industries are regularly

transformed by changes that disrupt traditional economic relationships. That’s what the Internet

did to the world of personal computers and minimills did to the big, integrated steel producers.

It’s what high-quality, low-cost Asian manufacturers did to a whole set of businesses based in

Europe and the United States. Individuals with an outside perspective can see such trends as

they’re happening.

But three of these four leadership skills require extensive inside knowledge. Executives who

successfully lead large corporations to new heights usually have accumulated a body of

knowledge over a long span of time, much of which is specific to the company they’re leading

and the industry it’s a part of. They can assess the talents of their colleagues relative to the skills

needed to compete in a new situation. When, in response to a change initiative, colleagues

declaim, “We can do that,” insiders can distinguish wishful thinking from an accurate recognition

of vital, new internal capabilities—and they can do so early on. It’s hard to overstate how

important it is to understand, when competing in a new field, the true value of recognizing a

winning versus a wannabe capability.

My research suggests that as a rule the best leaders are, therefore, people from inside the

company who have somehow maintained enough detachment from the local traditions, ideology,

and shibboleths to maintain the objectivity of an outsider. They know the traditions and the

people of the company but also know how those will have to change. They know what best-in-

class looks like as well as how the class will change. They’re able to look at the organization’s

administrative heritage as if they had just bought the company.

How do they preserve that view? Often they come from outside the mainstream of the

organization. They’ve spent more of their time away from headquarters living with new

opportunities and threats. If you’ve been living in modern Shanghai, for instance, you’re aware

that the threat from China is not cheap labor.

Am I advocating the elevation of eccentrics and misfits? Of course not. Procter & Gamble’s

A.G. Lafley spent the years before becoming CEO in Asia building the Chinese operation—in

beauty products rather than the core and very mature P&G detergent business. His resulting

broad view of P&G’s potential may have laid the basis for the series of major acquisitions that

have substantially widened the domain of the company’s businesses. IBM’s Sam Palmisano was a

champion of software and open systems at a time when Big Blue was essentially a closed-system,

hardware-oriented company. Again, his broader view of how IBM should compete appears to

have shaped the company’s progress as a systems and services solution provider. What Jack

Welch built into a world leader was GE Plastics—not engines, lighting, or appliances (which

were GE’s core at the time). Welch once told me, “One of the things that I was lucky about in

3

my early days in GE: I got good businesses and I saw bad businesses. I was managing

diamonds—industrial diamonds—and semiconductors. So one of the advantages of being in a

business with a 50% margin and moving to a business with a 4% margin is that you can tell the

difference between the two, and you want to get rid of [the 4%] and keep [the 50%.]”

Being outside the mainstream does two things for a high-potential manager: It allows a certain

detachment from the conventional wisdom to develop, and it keeps the manager from being

cowed by a powerful CEO. As one CEO said to me, “Acorns don’t grow well in the shadow of

great oaks.”

Growing Leaders

How do you build a pipeline of future leaders that includes inside-outsiders? It begins with

recruiting from a diverse pool of individuals who are both highly talented in their area of

specialization and have the potential to be general managers. Over time, they will learn to