SOURCE: Solve the Succession Crisis by Creating Inside-Outside Leaders (HBR).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.02 HFT - Succession Planning
TOPIC: Succession Planning
SUMMARY: This article examines the importance of CEO succession planning, the strengths and weaknesses of insider and outsider CEOs, and the need for 'inside-outside' leaders to drive sustained company performance.
KEYWORDS: CEO succession, insider leaders, outsider leaders, succession planning, company performance
---

Solve the Succession Crisis by

Growing Inside-Outside

Leaders

By Joseph. L. Bower

FROM THE NOVEMBER 2007 ISSUE

I was appalled to learn recently that 60% of the respondents to a poll of 1,380 HR directors of

large U.S. companies said their firms have no CEO succession plans in place. As this finding

suggests, too many companies have over the past two decades ignored the hard work of building

future leaders while senior executives have focused increasingly on meeting the next quarter’s

earnings target. When the time comes to name a new CEO, more firms look outside. Yet strong

evidence supports the notion that a well-groomed insider is a key to sustained company

performance. In my analysis of 1,800 successions, for instance, I found that company

performance was significantly better when insiders succeeded to the job of CEO. Other

researchers, including Jim Collins in Good to Great, have come to similar conclusions working

from different data sets.

Such quantitative research on CEO succession confirms but does not explain why more

outsiders are being hired, why qualified insider leadership correlates with better company

performance, or what relationship exists between those two trends. These ambiguities have

prompted me to consider what I could add to the data-centered research from a qualitative

review of a decade of my own and others’ case studies and interviews, as well as from my

experience managing successions as an outside director. That review made one thing

unambiguously clear to me: A critical difference between companies that manage succession well

and those that don’t is the understanding that succession is a process, not an event. The process

begins years before the event. Something else was clear: Both insider and outsider CEOs have

strengths and weaknesses when they begin. Insiders know the company and its people but are

often blind to the need for radical change—they’ve drunk the Kool-Aid. Outsiders see the need

for a new approach but can’t foster change because they don’t know the company or industry

sector well enough. What organizations need, then, is to find a way to nurture what I call inside-

outsiders—that is, internal candidates who have outside perspective. For some companies, that

may look like mission impossible. But the succession crisis will only get worse if companies don’t

tackle the problem.

The CEO Does Matter

Recently, there’s been a reaction against focusing too much on the CEO—with some

justification. Top teams, as much as CEOs themselves, are crucial to the execution of a great

strategy. Nonetheless, strong CEOs are worth studying. They wield enormous power. And as

stewards of the corporate purpose, their ability to make sense of the business environment and

to craft and articulate the mission and the strategy are central to long-term success.

Nothing illustrates the point better than the last 35 years of succession at General Electric.

Reginald Jones took the helm at GE in 1972. He developed the strategic-planning system he

inherited from his predecessors into the model for companies everywhere. He made huge

changes in GE’s portfolio, exiting the computer business and acquiring the giant inflation hedge,

Utah International. Jones’s GE regularly outperformed the U.S. GDP by more than 25%.

Recognizing the dawn of a very different environment in 1981, successor Jack Welch proceeded

in two or three years to dismantle much of the planning and organizational structure Jones had

1

put in place. Welch sold Utah, acquired RCA, and built a huge financial services business. Entire

levels of middle management and staff disappeared. In the second decade of his tenure, GE’s

market capitalization grew more than 1,000%. Welch’s successor, Jeff Immelt, is changing GE

once again. He is making major investments in biosciences, water, security, and platforms for

infrastructure growth in emerging countries. The stock market is giving him the same cool

reception it gave Welch in his first decade, but GE is growing both revenues and profits as it

changes.

What GE’s CEOs exemplify is the ability to perform four seemingly contradictory tasks (a near-

impossible quadrafecta):

 Produce good short-term performance regardless of how the markets and competitors

buffet the company they’ve inherited.

 Deploy resources so that organizational capabilities improve in the medium term.

 Align the talents and energies of hundreds of thousands of employees with clear strategic

objectives.

 Develop and modify those objectives over the long term so that strategy adjusts to the

changing business environment.

This is a feat that simply cannot be done by a team. It can be pulled off only by an individual

with a clear vision.

The job is inherently difficult—and becoming more so. CEO turnover is on the rise globally, and

studies show that the proportion that can be traced to inadequate performance is steadily

trending upward. Why should the job be harder now than in the past? I see two reasons. First,

arguably, market conditions are making the task of getting good results harder.

Hypercompetition, changing technology, and a raft of emerging players from every corner of the

globe are pressuring companies to keep changing their game, and a lot of firms are just not doing

it very well. When I took a look at the performance of U.S. firms over the last five years and

discounted the top two firms from any industry, the rest, on average, failed to earn their cost of

capital. Second, owner expectations have changed radically. In a world where markets are

growing 5% annually, the stock market is looking for 15% returns. Institutions count for an

increasing share of ownership, and their holding period is getting shorter—under a year is now

typical. These are not owners so much as speculators in for the short ride.

Outsiders, Insiders, and Hybrids

When company performance disappoints, boards of directors tend to seek a white knight from

the outside to come in and change everything. Most of the time, the only way to change things

fast is to cut costs—which is exactly what someone unfamiliar with the specifics of an industry