SOURCE: Solve the Succession Crisis by Creating Inside-Outside Leaders (HBR).pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2015.02 HFT - Succession Planning
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses how to build a pipeline of future leaders that includes both inside-out and outside-in perspectives, through recruiting, grooming, and mentoring high-potential employees.
KEYWORDS: leadership development, succession planning, talent management, mentorship, performance evaluation
---

great oaks.”

Growing Leaders

How do you build a pipeline of future leaders that includes inside-outsiders? It begins with

recruiting from a diverse pool of individuals who are both highly talented in their area of

specialization and have the potential to be general managers. Over time, they will learn to

manage effectively in the context of the company’s strategy, systems, and culture—they will

become good insiders. The best of them will also see the potential for radical improvement, and

that vision may ultimately match up with the sense the board and the departing leaders have of

where the world is headed. Grooming that kind of insider—the one blessed with an outside

view—should be the fundamental goal of the executive development process. If building the

skills these managers need takes a decade or more—and if they are to assume leadership

positions while they still have at least a decade of service ahead of them—they need to be on

board and identified for grooming by the time they are 30.

“Grooming” may be a bad word for the development process, as it sounds more cosmetic than

it really is. What high-potentials need is to be handed a series of increasingly complex

assignments that give them the chance to manage a whole business as early as possible. That

means the company has to be organized into more than one business unit—even if it is basically

a one-business company. Sometimes regions are distinct enough to benefit from different

managers. Western and Eastern Europe are like that today: One market is mature, highly

developed, and very competitive; the other is growing rapidly under rapidly changing conditions.

Thus managing them is quite genuinely two different jobs.

As high-potentials move through this series of increasingly complex assignments, performance

evaluation is critical. They must be held accountable and learn how to deliver, but they must not

be abused by arbitrarily imposed goals. When young managers stumble, they should be mentored

by talented senior managers. This mentoring is part of the senior manager’s path to further

growth as well.

Senior managers who are overseeing the development of talented junior managers should pay

special attention to planning, budgeting, performance evaluation, and compensation—and to

how these different processes are linked. When managed well, planning and budgeting present

an endless series of development opportunities: learning how to present deliverable plans so that

they are not arbitrarily raised to meet some corporate aspiration; learning how to ratchet up

growth while still delivering current performance; learning how to present new ideas in such a

way that they are not underfunded. These challenges involve, on the one hand, being held

accountable for deliverables and, on the other, being given space to nurture new activities.

Earning and learning require different approaches to evaluation and compensation. Both entail

accountability, but one set of targets and measures is pretty clear, while the other is often more

ambiguous. Rewards need to reflect each in a way that is understandable. An individual might be

4

promoted for success in building an operation over a number of years, for instance, but at the

same time be denied a bonus based on a formula related to short-term earnings.

Oftentimes, the inside-outsiders appear to present a special challenge. They seem like mavericks

to the extent that they do see outside the box. What this comes down to is that most people

think some of their ideas are really weird. Indeed, these unusual ideas may not be sound until

they’re worked through. Inside-outsiders need encouragement, as well as protection from old-

timers who might be inclined to teach them a lesson. That is the job of the mentor.

The critical moment is when the young high-potential shows up with something new that just

might be important. That is when the investment of a mentor’s time is most important. It may

take numerous meetings and a long walk or two to help the high-potential think through what it

means to develop an idea in the context of the company. More often than not, the mentor will

be at least as skeptical as the old-timer. The trick is to give the young manager the time and

leeway to turn a new idea into a great business without giving him the rope to hang himself. The

mentor must make sure resources are adequate but not excessive, dole them out stage by stage,

and then wait and see. The mentor, in other words, is a kind of venture capitalist, teaching

potential leaders how to make new ideas work.

It takes world-class quality and cost control for any company to stay in the game. It takes fast-to-

market innovation to sustain industry leadership. Those dual (and dueling) priorities have put

great pressure on the men and women at the top. They must drive efficient operations and

creative change at the same time, even though from a management perspective those tasks are

nearly contradictory.

For both the company leadership and those who seek to become leaders, that means balancing

the need to meet short-term expectations with the need to invest over the long term in the

development of the organization’s people. For management, development involves giving

potential leaders jobs with increasing responsibility. Helping them maintain their unique

perspective takes hours of mentoring; protecting them from the consequences of their mistakes

requires careful intervention. Those who want to be chosen as leaders must build a track record

of delivering in the short term while building for the long term. Both challenges are tough, but

both must be met if we are to restore our companies to long-term competitive health.

Joseph L. Bower is a Baker Foundation Professor of Business Adminstration at Harvard Business

School and co-author of the HBR article“Global Capitalism at Risk: What Are You Doing About

It” and the book Capitalism at Risk: Rethinking the Role of Business.

5