SOURCE: Speaking Tips - Darren Holland tips.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Public Speaking Techniques
SUMMARY: The passage provides tips on analyzing your own speaking performance and finding your optimal vocal pitch range to improve vocal quality and audience engagement.
KEYWORDS: vocal pitch, public speaking, audience engagement, voice quality, repetition
---

close to you. It is a very worthwhile exercise. Read it the same way you would

if it was being you in a meeting or a boardroom presentation. Try to judge the

tone, is it friendly, nervous, confident, credible, sarcastic, energetic, dull or

superior. If you can’t assess your own work, and it can be difficult, find

somebody in public life whose speaks as you feel you should and listen to

them and compare it to your recording – don’t be afraid to use what you like.

Pitch, in terms of speaking aloud can be best explained by thinking about

music. Music has high and low notes as do people's voices. Everyone's voice

has a natural pitch. Women's tend to be higher than men's, and everybody

has a pitch range: the number of notes habitually used. When that range is

very small, the effect is monotonous.

Here’s a great explanation way to find your optimal pitch.

Say, “Uh-Huh” as if you were answering a friends question. Move the vocal

pitch down when you say it. To find your optimal range be certain to produce

the “Uh-“ from the mid-range of your voice and then produce “Huh-“ at a lower

range of your voice. Think about where your mid-range voice is located. This

is normally considered your optimal pitch. If you say, “Uh-Huh” in too high of a

pitch, then you will not find your optimal pitch range. When you are saying the

word, “Uh-Huh,” from the mid-range of your voice, you are producing your

optimal pitch range. It is important to begin voicing at your mid-range. The

“Uh” is the upper limit for optimal vocal pitch and the “Huh” is the lower limit

for this range. The range may seem small to you. It is about a four to five

note range. Be aware that this is only a range and it should fluctuate.

The key is to speak comfortably within your optimal pitch range on a

consistent basis. A vibrant voice with good tone quality will come from the

“Uh-Huh” range. When individuals speak above their optimal pitch limit, the

result is a voice with a higher pitch, thinner sounding tone and more nasal

resonance that can be unpleasant for the listener. Speaking from your

optimal pitch will allow you to produce a rich tone quality with natural

projection that will give you command of your voice.

Remember the power of REPETITION!!

We all get bored when people repeat themselves fort no purpose. As

I pointed out - when you repeat important information… or your key

message… or a phrase that’s particularly meaningful, people won’t

even think of this as repetition. They’ll experience it

as reinforcement, and be grateful that they had another opportunity

to catch your most important point.

Engaging – we spoke about locking eyes with people when you speak and

avoiding looking down at notes. It’s my belief that if you don't use eye contact

effectively you lose your audience. In the case of speaking to a group, you are

attempting to have one on one conversations with each audience member.

When you make eye contact, you are connecting, it helps to establish rapport,

makes them feel special and that they are important. The other reason to

make eye contact is that you gain an understanding of your audience.

It gives you immediate feedback. You can see if they are listening, if they are

interested, worried, excited, bored or delighted. You can then change and

modify your presentation, ask questions or shift yourself into a more

resourceful state, so as to meet the requirements of the moment.

If you are giving a presentation to a group of people, the eye contact can be

done in an irregular and unpredictable "Z" formation - looking at one person

for three to five seconds and then moving across the room and settling on

another face. Toastmasters recommends you try to hold each person's eye

for about 4 to 5 seconds.

In the case of a larger group, obviously you will not connect with everyone,

however when you look directly at one person, the people around them and

behind them - the group in that area - actually feel like you have

acknowledged them.