SOURCE: Speaking Tips - Darren Holland tips.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Public Speaking Tips
SUMMARY: This document provides tips and advice for effective public speaking, focusing on techniques like varying speech rate, volume, tone, and using deliberate pauses.
KEYWORDS: public speaking, speech delivery, vocal variety, pauses, audience engagement
---

Darren Holland

Speaking Tips

1. Rate – Vary the speed of your conversation, slow it down.

2. Volume – vary the volume of your delivery to add emphasis

and gain greater attention.

3. Tone – even if the content is factual/dry, have energy and

smile.

4. Pitch – work on developing more voice notes to avoid

monotony.

5. Repetition – make the point and do it again.

6. Engaging – connect with everyone in the room.

Rate as we discussed comes down to speed. I think you can get great value

from slowing down a little as well as focusing on varying the speed within

different areas of your presentation that will result in better variety. A few

points to remember –

1. Choose a rate appropriate for the subject at hand. Think about a race

caller at Flemington and contrast that with a commentator describing

golf. Make a judgement on what suits – you best know what fits, you

wouldn’t communicate a significant positive announcement at a very

slow rate. Consider what you have to do.

2. Vary your rate of speech to express different thoughts and feelings.

You may want to speak slowly to emphasise an important point or to

communicate a serious mood. A faster pace is appropriate when you

are telling your audience something it already knows (like background

information that sets the scene) or to express surprise, happiness, or

fear. Use pauses to change the pace and add verbal variety.

3. Try this - Use a recorder to monitor your rate of speech while you read

aloud a magazine article. Pay special attention to grouping words into

phrases and to slowing down and speeding up at appropriate points.

Play back your speech and listen for improvement – you need to

consciously practise this in your everyday conversations but don’t lose

the smile in your voice – just change the speed not your tone.

Pauses add colour, expression, and feeling to a speech. They should be used

deliberately to achieve a desired effect. Here are a few suggestions:

1. Pause for moment when you introduce a new idea or term to give your

listeners time to absorb what you are saying.

2. Don't talk nonstop until; literally, you are out of breath. At the same time,

don't pause every three or four words in a kind of nervous verbal chop.

Particularly, don't pause in the middle of every idea, it can make it difficult

for your listeners to follow.

3. Try not to take vocalized pauses such as "ah," "er," and "umm." A vocalized

pause is usually ineffective (even distracting and annoying). For example,

President John F. Kennedy's famous line, "Ask not what your country can

do for you; ask what you can do for you country," was effective not only

because of its language but also because it was delivered with a pause

dividing the two thoughts.

4. Extend your pauses to two or three seconds when displaying a visual aid.

This tactic enables your audience to read the information on the visual aid

without missing your next thought. It is important to pause after the display,

not before it.

Volume

Important tips on variety.

§ Vary your volume. Speaking for any length of time at the same volume

(whether loud or soft) puts people to sleep. Just as gestures and body

movement create visual interest, varying your volume creates vocal

interest.

§ Emphasize target words or phrases by speaking louder or softer (as

appropriate).

§ Mirror emotional content with volume changes. For example, when

sharing a sad story, your volume should naturally drop. Conversely, when

sharing a story, which has action or surprise, your volume should

increase, building to a climax.

§ Finish sentences strong. Tailing off at the end of sentences is a

common mistake made by speakers, often caused by looking back down

at notes. The result? Your audience may miss the last word or two at the

end of sentences, thus weakening your impact.

The important thing Darren is a little change by you will make a big change

in the ears of others.

Tone refers to the emotional content carried by our voices. It is not the words

themselves, but 'how' we say them. To speak expressively, is to fill or energize

our words appropriately. For example: a person who puts very little energy into

their speech, no matter what they are saying, is often described as being 'flat'.

By contrast someone who fills his or her speech to overflowing with energy is

described as being 'exuberant' or 'enthusiastic'. Tone refers to the emotional

content carried by our voices. It is not the words themselves, but 'how' we say

them.

The way we talk can have a particularly profound affect on how others interpret

what we are saying and how we are feeling. You mentioned that

communication is 90% non-verbal, I don’t necessarily subscribe to that view.

I’ve read that 38% of our communications come across through the tone,

inflection, and speed of our voices. The tone of our voice can convey a number

of things; enthusiasm, emotion and mood. On the negative side of things, it can

reveal sarcasm, superiority or submissiveness. Tone is a good communicator of

emotion and mood. Generally, softer tones and pitches are associated with

friendliness; softer tones are seen as non-aggressive and helpful. Interestingly,

men and women often use higher tones and pitches in first meetings. This is

believed to help establish rapport, perhaps signalling a more upbeat and happy

personality.

Here’s an exercise – record yourself reading some text for about 60 seconds

and listen back – if you are brave enough, share the recording with somebody

close to you. It is a very worthwhile exercise. Read it the same way you would

if it was being you in a meeting or a boardroom presentation. Try to judge the

tone, is it friendly, nervous, confident, credible, sarcastic, energetic, dull or