SOURCE: Strategic Planning Pre-Work_2007.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning and Talent Management
SUMMARY: The document discusses issues related to attracting and retaining high-quality talent to support the company's strategic growth plans.
KEYWORDS: strategic planning, talent management, employee retention, compensation, organizational culture
---

~

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part I: Personal Objectives

Please answer the following question. Keep your answers within the blue boxes.

Your responses will be reviewed by the planning team as they meet in session.

1. What issues, problems, changes, ideas need to be addressed in the

upcoming BB RETAIL CAPITAL planning session that will ensure that

we are able to aggressively and strategically move forward as a company

in the future?

¢ People, we need to have a good look at the quality of people in senior

positions. It is difficult to attract good quality people as our remuneration

packages are not competitive enough.

¢ We need to look at ways to encourage team members to stay longer with

the business

We have a real issue keeping good team members at store level

1, What do you believe should be considered uncompromising rules and

nonnegotiable guidelines that will ensure the highest and best use of

time, expense, and effort in the upcoming BB RETAIL CAPITAL

planning session?

© respect cach others ideas/knowledge’sharing

to much break up group work:

finish each session, with what changes will we/are we going to”

nsure learning’s from each session will-betaken back .to.our

Strategia © 1996-2007 4

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part II: Strategic Enterprise Assessment

Below are two examples of completed Strategic Enterprise Assessment (SEA)

Wheels for two different companies. They are included as examples to illustrate

what the BB RETAIL CAPITAL SEA Wheel will potentially look like when it is

finished and to illustrate the powerful diagnostic ability of this assessment.

u

ENTERPRISE

Summary: Weak strategic health, Summary: Strong baseline health,

needing comprehensive improvement needing focused improvement in teany/

throughout. conmnunicationdmplementation areas.

Directions: Indicate the extent of your agreement regarding how your organ-

ization is performing in each of the following areas by circling or highlighting the

most accurate number or writing in your decimal answer (2.5, 3.5, etc.) below:

Key: 0 1 2 3 4

Strongly Partly Strongly

Disagree Disagree Agree Agree Agree

1. Our organizational structure,

roles, and responsibilities are

clearly defined and effective. 0 I 2 4

2. Our company culture is

empowering, uplifting, pleasant,

refreshing, and healthy. 0 1 2 4

Strategia © 1996-2007 5

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work

BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part II; Strategic Enterprise Assessment (continued)

3. Our executive/leadership

team is knowledgeable,

capable, and effective.

4. Our management/supervisory

team is knowledgeable,

capable, and effective.

5. Our employee/associate

team is knowledgeable,

capable, and effective.

6. Our communications in all

directions (up, down, across, in,

out) are efficient and effective.

7. Our technology (office, computers,

machinery, etc.) is helping us be

productive and cost-effective.

8. Our teamwork among departments,

functions, offices, work groups, and

teams is smooth and effective.

9. Our customer knowledge, service,

needs-understanding, and actions

are timely and effective.

10. Our competitor knowledge, plans,

responses, and actions are

timely and effective.

11. Our business knowledge and action

concerning our industry, trends,

economy, and global situation is

adequate.

12. Our financial knowledge and action

concerning sales, costs, profitability,

banking, financing, cash flow, and

equity is adequate.

13. Our strategic and business

plan content is clear, complete,

written down, and communicated.

Strategia © 1996-2007

0

2

4

3 4

3 4

3 4

3 4

3 4

3 4

3 4

3 4

4

3 4

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part U: Strategic Enterprise Assessment (continued)

14. Our market strategies, including

product plans, services plans,

geographic and sales plans, are ;

clear, complete, and communicated. 0 ey 2 3 4

15. Our strategic and business planning

process is clear, complete, smooth,

and effective. 0 2 3 4

16. Our strategic and business plan

implementation is timely,

disciplined, and effective. 0 2 3 4

Strategia © 1996-2007 7

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part III: Pluses and Minuses (SF SWOT) Analysis

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories

Definition: SF = The Successes and Failures that have happened in the

enterprise during the last year or so. Like a financial income statement, this

category of analysis measures “what actually happened” during an indicated time

frame. (Please keep answers within the blue boxes.)

Question: What has the Company recently attempted to do in the business that

either was successful (accomplished what we were aiming for) or was unsuccessful

(did not meet our expectations), hence failures, or at the least, we “can do better.”

SUCCESSES:

¢ Inventory reduction Plan, we set out to reduce our inventory by 30%

without impacting sales and we have achieved this as well as achieving a

6% comparative sales increase.

* Record EBIT achieved, we had a poor year the before and we set out to

ensure we made up the difference from the year before. This was achieved

by sharing with the entire organization what our plan was and we all set

out together to achieve this.

FAILURES:

* Succession planning at store level has been poor, we continue to have a

poor length of service at store level and this is holding us back from

achieving all out goals

* Slow to respond to new categories. We continue to do well in what we

know best but are unable to respond when we are out of comfort zone.

Strategia © 1996-2007 8

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part III: Pluses and Minuses (SF SWOT) Analysis (continued)

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories.

Definition: SW = The Strengths and Weaknesses of the organization. Here we

are not looking at events but at resources. Like a financial balance statement,

this measures the various “assets” and “liabilities” of the organization as it

exists at this present time and in the recent past. (Please keep answers within the

blue boxes.)

Question: What resources, personnel, unique market advantages, products,

services, and so forth, are a part of your business situation and are either strengths

(which you can build with) or weaknesses (which you can strengthen or resolve)?

STRENGTHS:

Do what it takes attitude team