SOURCE: Strategic Planning Pre-Work_2007.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning
SUMMARY: The text discusses the company's strategic planning process, including its business knowledge, financial management, and market strategies, as well as the successes and failures it has experienced.
KEYWORDS: strategic planning, business assessment, market strategy, financial management
---

responses, and actions are ;

timely and effective. 0 1 2 Be 4

11. Our business knowledge and action

concerning our industry, trends,

economy, and global situation is

adequate. 0 1 2

12. Our financial knowledge and action

concerning sales, costs, profitability,

banking, financing, cash flow, and

equity is adequate. 0 1 2 3

13. Our strategic and business

plan content is clear, complete,

written down, and communicated. 0 1

Strategia © 1996-2007 6

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part II: Strategic Enterprise Assessment (continued)

14. Our market strategies, including

product plans, services plans,

geographic and sales plans, are

clear, complete, and communicated. 0 1 2

15. Our strategic and business planning

process is clear, complete, smooth,

and effective. 0 1 2

16. Our strategic and business plan

implementation is timely,

disciplined, and effective. 0 1

Strategia © 1996-2007 7

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part II: Pluses and Minuses (SF SWOT) Analysis

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories

Definition: SF = The Successes and Failures that have happened in the

enterprise during the last year or so. Like a financial income statement, this

category of analysis measures “what actually happened” during an indicated time

jrame. (Please keep answers within the blue boxes.)

Question: What has the Company recently attempted to do in the business that

either was successful (accomplished what we were aiming for) or was unsuccessful

(did not meet our expectations), hence failures, or at the least, we “can do better.”

SUCCESSES:

Strong marketing campaign.

* Maintained and retained a very strong team.

* Seen a number of competitors exit our space.

* Achieved a clear goal with buy in from all levels to trial a larger footprint

store.

FAILURES:

¢ Have not managed to get ourselves out of a continuing negative sales line.

« Dragged our feet on the launch of a second brand.

¢ Slow in developing our marketing strategy and to identify who we are

building products for.

Strategia © 1996-2007 8

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part III: Pluses and Minuses (SF SWOT) Analysis (continued)

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories.

Definition: SW = The Strengths and Weaknesses of the organization. Here we

are not looking at events but at resources. Like a financial balance statement,

this measures the various “assets” and “liabilities” of the organization as it

exists at this present time and in the recent past. (Please keep answers within the

blue boxes.)

Question: What resources, personnel, unique market advantages, products,

services, and so forth, are a part of your business situation and are either strengths

(which you can build with) or weaknesses (which you can strengthen or resolve)?

STRENGTHS:

Access to products and factories from other international markets.

Clear number | brand recognition in our category.

Largest amount of stores.

Clean balance sheet.

Stable mngt team.

Strong margin

WEAKNESSES:

* The success of our business is driven by delivering the right product, price

etc. Due to being 100% vertical this is entirely up to our internal

capabilities.

* A problem in our buying team can have a major ripple effect across the

business.

¢ The culture of our business is one of growth and we are nearing the end of

that growth cycle.

Strategia © 1996-2007 9

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part II: Pluses and Minuses (SF SWOT) Analysis (concluded)

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories.

Definition: OT = The Opportunities and the Threats that confront the

organization. Here we are looking into the future. These are factors that are not

really under your control but must still be taken into account as you develop your

strategy. (Please keep answers within the blue boxes.)

Question: What factors or conditions of your business environment pose

opportunities (which you can take advantage or capitalize on) or threats (which

must either be transformed into opportunities or be avoided by the enterprise)?

OPPORTUNITIES:

¢ Large market recognition with a clean brand.

¢ Potential concession business.

* Our the trend on our segment increases we are in a great position to ride

that wave.

THREATS:

| ¢ Competition from either an international player may come into the market

oran Australian retailer gets serious about our segment

* Landlords rental expectations in the future.

* The trend of our products slows further being that we cater for a small

segment of the fashion industry.

Strategia © 1996-2007 10

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

2007 Pre-Work Package Conclusion

Final Comments

Please remember that your survey inputs are 100% confidential, summarized

and reported back only on an anonymous, non-attributed, group basis to

reflect straight inputs at a collective level, assuring clear messages without

any invasion of your privacy.

Thank you for your time and especially for your inputs. You have a

profound opportunity to help position BB RETAIL CAPITAL to achieve its

major goals for 2007 and beyond.

I look forward to reading what you send and then summarizing the data.

Reminder:

E-mail to: carlie@bbretailcapital.com.au

On or before: 21 September 2007

Thank you for your fast turn-around!

Bill Bean

Chairman, Strategia

Strategia © 1996-2007 11

lV, i ol a

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part I: Personal Objectives

Please answer the following question. Keep your answers within the blue boxes.

Your responses will be reviewed by the planning team as they meet in session.

1. What issues, problems, changes, ideas need to be addressed in the

upcoming BB RETAIL CAPITAL planning session that will ensure that

we are able to aggressively and strategically move forward as a company

in the future?

¢ Drive the customer focus internally as well as externally, there is so much

more to do to create “It’s about the customer always”

Take a few key learning’s from Walmart and actually make them happen

rather than too many good ideas and nothing actually gets implemented

Create ownership and accountability for everyone in the room