SOURCE: Strategic Planning Pre-Work_2007.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Performance Review
SUMMARY: A review of successes and failures in the company's strategic initiatives and operations.
KEYWORDS: strategic plan, performance review, business operations, failures, successes
---

either was successful (accomplished what we were aiming for) or was unsuccessful

(did not meet our expectations), hence failures, or at the least, we “can do better.”

SUCCESSES:

Implementation of the turnaround strategic plan (the completion of “Project Phoenix”)

and corresponding excellent results in Entertainment

Development and commencement of similar program in dusk ~ “Project Ignite”

Development and launch of Active Air candle program in dusk, proving that “collection

based” marketing is as relevant in dusk as it is in other brands.

Final resolution and development of a viable economic model for Pulse with Visible

Results

Completed the integration of the old “Shared Service” arrangements (all areas except for

IT and parts of Finance which were not successful)

Successfully transitioned to private company from public

FAILURES:

* Took too long to recognize dusk’s issues and commence the changes that were necessary

.

Lenn

Failed to maximize the Pulse programs potential — we are a /ong way from utilizing this

program’s true capacity

Integration of HMV into the Sanity / Virgin culture took too long.

We have neglected the sanity.com (physical) business

The digital strategy in Entertainment is taking too long to gain traction

Shared service integration / devolution of IT is confused and still not entirely clear

Succession Planning for senior levels in Entertainment is not where it should be

Failed to bring IT user skills up to standard (e.g. JDE in Finance)

Failed to bring Gear up to anywhere near its potential in Entertainment

Strategia © 1996-2007 8

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part III: Pluses and Minuses (SF SWOT) Analysis (continued)

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories.

Definition: SW= The Strengths and Weaknesses of the organization. Here we

are not looking at events but at resources. Like a financial balance statement,

this measures the various “assets” and “liabilities” of the organization as it

exists at this present time and in the recent past. (Please keep answers within the

blue boxes.)

Question: What resources, personnel, unique market advantages, products,

services, and so forth, are a part of your business situation and are either strengths

(which you can build with) or weaknesses (which you can strengthen or resolve)?

STRENGTHS:

The BBRC culture ~ committed, driven to succeed, work hard / play hard

The corporation wide “Customer-centric” way of looking at things

Financial strength and reputation

Leaders / dominant players in all of our operating market segments

Understand the mechanics of Mall retailing and have “clout” with landlords

Are “fleet of foot” and can generally move quickly to take advantage of opportunities

Our IT systems are finally bedding down and are really starting to generate some return

from our investment in them

WEAKNESSES:

Not enough “technically” savvy people in the management team leading to

misunderstanding of the need to invest in technical areas

We have great systems but no-one is prepared to invest time in training to enable us to get

the most out of them

Succession Planning at the intermediate management levels

Skill levels in “lower levels” of Finance and Admin teams

Not seen as an attractive organization to work for by the wider community

Organization can be resistant to change (although this has improved dramatically in the

last twelve months or so)

Individual Brands are operating too isolated from each other ~ need for more interactivity

and idea swapping, particularly at intermediate management level. Need more of a

“Family Culture” across the BBRC brands

Strategia © 1996-2007 9

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part II: Pluses and Minuses (SF SWOT) Analysis (concluded)

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories.

Definition: OT = The Opportunities and the Threats that confront the

organization. Here we are looking into the future. These are factors that are not

really under your control but must still be taken into account as you develop your

strategy. (Please keep answers within the blue boxes.)

Question: What factors or conditions of your business environment pose

opportunities (which you can take advantage or capitalize on) or threats (which

must either be transformed into opportunities or be avoided by the enterprise)?

OPPORTUNITIES:

Our negotiation strength in all Brands

* Our portfolio of retail sites is second to none

* Expansion of underdeveloped Brands such as Inglot, dusk, SX

* Utilize our strength in Entertainment to drive new business models (before it is too late)

* Selling via internet - properly (current businesses are way below potential)

* Develop Corporate business ~ properly

* Not utilizing the power of Pulse effectively ~ opportunity for true CRM

* Look for the next “Chin” as far as product sourcing is concerned (e.g, Vietnam?)

A hot a “low cost” operation and we are at risk from attack from “low cost / low

price” operators (e.g. JB Hi-Fi, Cotton On Body)

* Our inability to react fast enough to technical changes in distribution logistics and

methodology

* Changing consumer tastes and attitudes as the population ages — we are too focused as a

group on younger (particularly female) demographics

* Other, international organizations moving into our categories — e.g, La Senza, Claires etc

* China revalues it currency to the point that margins are impacted

Change of government disrupts the AWA’s and our employee relations

Strategia © 1996-2007 10

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part I: Personal Objectives

Please answer the following question. Keep your answers within the blue boxes.

Your responses will be reviewed by the planning team as they meet in session.

1. What issues, problems, changes, ideas need to be addressed in the

upcoming BB RETAIL CAPITAL planning session that will ensure that

we are able to aggressively and strategically move forward as a company

in the future?

* Recruiting & retaining talent

* Establishing ourselves as an employer of choice

¢ Leveraging the strength (& buying power) of the group to our maximum

benefit

1, What do you believe should be considered uncompromising rules and

nonnegotiable guidelines that will ensure the highest and best use of