SOURCE: Strategic Planning Pre-Work_2007.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Talent Management and Employee Engagement
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for recruiting and retaining top talent, as well as establishing the organization as an employer of choice.
KEYWORDS: talent recruitment, talent retention, employer branding, employee engagement, strategic planning
---

* Recruiting & retaining talent

* Establishing ourselves as an employer of choice

¢ Leveraging the strength (& buying power) of the group to our maximum

benefit

1, What do you believe should be considered uncompromising rules and

nonnegotiable guidelines that will ensure the highest and best use of

time, expense, and effort in the upcoming BB RETAIL CAPITAL

planning session?

arity from the start of whatthe objectives:are for conference

* Mixing of groups in any activities to get most from a ‘mixed view’

©Efsiring common link with participants for any. group activities (eg

warehouse & distribution managers interacting)

Strategia © 1996-2007 4

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part IL: Strategic Enterprise Assessment

Below are two examples of completed Strategic Enterprise Assessment (SEA)

Wheels for two different companies. They are included as examples to illustrate

what the BB RETAIL CAPITAL SEA Wheel will potentially look like when it is

finished and to illustrate the powerful diagnostic ability of this assessment.

1

ENTERPRISE

KNOWLEDGE

Summary: Weak strategic health,

needing comprehensive improvement

throughout.

WL

KNOWLEDGE

Summary: Strong baseline health,

needing focused improvement in team

communication/implementation areas.

Directions: Indicate the extent of your agreement regarding how your organ-

ization is performing in each of the following areas by circling or highlighting the

most accurate number or writing in your decimal answer (2.5, 3.5, etc.) below:

Key:

1. Our organizational structure,

roles, and responsibilities are

0 1 2 3 4

Strongly Partly

Disagree Disagree Agree Agree Agree

Strongly

clearly defined and effective. 0 1 3 4

2. Our company culture is

empowering, uplifting, pleasant,

refreshing, and healthy. 0 1 3 4

Strategia © 1996-2007

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work

BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part If: Strategic Enterprise Assessment (continued)

3. Our executive/leadership

team is knowledgeable,

capable, and effective.

4. Our management/supervisory

team is knowledgeable,

capable, and effective.

5. Our employee/associate

team is knowledgeable,

capable, and effective.

6. Our communications in all

directions (up, down, across, in,

out) are efficient and effective.

7. Our technology (office, computers,

machinery, etc.) is helping us be

productive and cost-effective.

8. Our teamwork among departments,

functions, offices, work groups, and

teams is smooth and effective.

9. Our customer knowledge, service,

needs-understanding, and actions

are timely and effective.

10. Our competitor knowledge, plans,

responses, and actions are

timely and effective.

11. Our business knowledge and action

concerning our industry, trends,

economy, and global situation is

adequate.

12. Our financial knowledge and action

concerning sales, costs, profitability,

banking, financing, cash flow, and

equity is adequate.

13. Our strategic and business

plan content is clear, complete,

written down, and communicated.

Strategia © 1996-2007

0

3 4

3 4

3 4

3 4

4

4

3 4

3 4

3 4

3 4

3 4

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part I: Strategic Enterprise Assessment (continued)

14. Our market strategies, including

product plans, services plans,

geographic and sales plans, are

clear, complete, and communicated. 0 1

15. Our strategic and business planning

process is clear, complete, smooth,

and effective. 0 1

16. Our strategic and business plan

implementation is timely,

disciplined, and effective. 0 1

Strategia © 1996-2007 7

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part III: Pluses and Minuses (SF SWOT) Analysis

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories

Definition: SF = The Successes and Failures that have happened in the

enterprise during the last year or so. Like a financial income statement, this

category of analysis measures “what actually happened” during an indicated time

frame. (Please keep answers within the blue boxes.)

Question: What has the Company recently attempted to do in the business that

either was successful (accomplished what we were aiming for) or was unsuccessful

(did not meet our expectations), hence failures, or at the least, we “can do better.”

SUCCESSES:

* Achieved faster reaction & response times

« Adopted a more retail focus for our business

FAILURES:

* Kept doing the same thing and expected a different result

* Half done things with an investment made but no follow-up to complete

the process / plan and provide a return

* Neglected the need to revisit certain functions within the business to

ensure they are functioning effectively

Strategia © 1996-2007 8

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part III: Pluses and Minuses (SF SWOT) Analysis (continued)

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories.

Definition: SW = The Strengths and Weaknesses of the organization. Here we

are not looking at events but at resources. Like a financial balance statement,

this measures the various “assets” and “liabilities” of the organization as it

exists at this present time and in the recent past. (Please keep answers within the

blue boxes.)

Question: What resources, personnel, unique market advantages, products,

services, and so forth, are a part of your business situation and are either strengths

(which you can build with) or weaknesses (which you can strengthen or resolve)?

STRENGTHS:

Strength of the brand name

People & their commitment to the business

Manufacturing capability

Customer focus

WEAKNESSES:

| ¢ Forgotten what we are best known and wandered off in the wrong

direction product-wise

* Acceptance of mediocrity

Strategia © 1996-2007 9

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part III: Pluses and Minuses (SF SWOT) Analysis (concluded)

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories.

Definition: OT = The Opportunities and the Threats that confront the

organization. Here we are looking into the future. These are factors that are not

really under your control but must still be taken into account as you develop your

strategy. (Please keep answers within the blue boxes.)

Question: What factors or conditions of your business environment pose

opportunities (which you can take advantage or capitalize on) or threats (which

must either be transformed into opportunities or be avoided by the enterprise)?

OPPORTUNITIES:

* Maunufacturing capability, control & innovation

¢ Unique aspect of our concept

* Opportunities outside of mainstream retail

THREATS:

* Any resistence to invest in manufacturing

* Not developing product fast enough

* Loss of key people

LT