SOURCE: Strategic Planning Pre-Work_2007.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning and Implementation
SUMMARY: This text emphasizes the importance of customer-centricity, accountability, and a motivated, focused culture to ensure effective strategic planning and execution.
KEYWORDS: customer focus, accountability, implementation, strategic planning, culture
---

more to do to create “It’s about the customer always”

Take a few key learning’s from Walmart and actually make them happen

rather than too many good ideas and nothing actually gets implemented

Create ownership and accountability for everyone in the room

Create an upbeat and motivational few days so that all the team walk out

focused for Christmas

Develop and drive a reality based people focused culture so it is more than

a vision

1. What do you believe should be considered uncompromising rules and

nonnegotiable guidelines that will ensure the highest and best use of

time, expense, and effort in the upcoming BB RETAIL CAPITAL

planning session?

* How to:make the topics and discussions relevant for.all.team in the room

*  Prereading and post follow.up to ensure:110% commitment

¢ eEnsure the. group mixes rather.than Division Focus

* «Make sure: nobody. point scores or takes the floor too much

Strategia © 1996-2007 4

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part II: Strategic Enterprise Assessment

Below are two examples of completed Strategic Enterprise Assessment (SEA)

Wheels for two different companies. They are included as examples to illustrate

what the BB RETAIL CAPITAL SEA Wheel will potentially look like when it is

finished and to illustrate the powerful diagnostic ability of this assessment.

L

ENTERPRISE

mM,

KNOWLEDGE

Summary: Weak strategic health, Summary: Strong baseline health,

needing comprehensive lmprovement needing focused improvement in teanr

throughout. conmnunication implementation areas.

Directions: Indicate the extent of your agreement regarding how your organ-

ization is performing in each of the following areas by circling or highlighting the

most accurate number or writing in your decimal answer (2.5, 3.5, etc.) below:

Key: 0 1 2 3 4

Strongly Partly Strongly

Disagree Disagree Agree Agree Agree

1. Our organizational structure,

roles, and responsibilities are

clearly defined and effective. 0 1 3 4

2. Our company culture is

empowering, uplifting, pleasant, 7

refreshing, and healthy. 0 1 42 3 4

Strategia © 1996-2007 5

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work

BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part II: Strategic Enterprise Assessment (continued)

3, Our executive/leadership

team is knowledgeable,

capable, and effective.

4. Our management/supervisory

team is knowledgeable,

capable, and effective.

5. Our employee/associate

team is knowledgeable,

capable, and effective.

6. Our communications in all

directions (up, down, across, in,

out) are efficient and effective.

7. Our technology (office, computers,

machinery, etc.) is helping us be

productive and cost-effective.

8. Our teamwork among departments,

functions, offices, work groups, and

teams is smooth and effective.

9. Our customer knowledge, service,

needs-understanding, and actions

are timely and effective.

10. Our competitor knowledge, plans,

responses, and actions are

timely and effective.

11. Our business knowledge and action

concerning our industry, trends,

economy, and global situation is

adequate.

12. Our financial knowledge and action

concerning sales, costs, profitability,

banking, financing, cash flow, and

equity is adequate.

13. Our strategic and business

plan content is clear, complete,

written down, and communicated.

Strategia © 1996-2007

0

3 4

3 4

3 4

3 4

4

3 4

4

3 4

3 4

4

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part II: Strategic Enterprise Assessment (continued)

14. Our market strategies, including

product plans, services plans,

geographic and sales plans, are

clear, complete, and communicated. 0 1 2

15. Our strategic and business planning

process is clear, complete, smooth,

and effective. 0 1

16. Our strategic and business plan

implementation is timely,

disciplined, and effective. 0 1

Strategia © 1996-2007 7

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part III: Pluses and Minuses (SF SWOT) Analysis

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories

Definition: SF = The Successes and Failures that have happened in the

enterprise during the last year or so. Like a financial income statement, this

category of analysis measures “what actually happened” during an indicated time

frame. (Please keep answers within the blue boxes.)

Question: What has the Company recently attempted to do in the business that

either was successful (accomplished what we were aiming for) or was unsuccessful

(did not meet our expectations), hence failures, or at the least, we “can do better.”

SUCCESSES:

¢ BNT overachieved Budget Contribution for 06/07

* Growth and drive of BNT Private Label Brands has been effective at both

sales and margin

¢ Implemented AWA for majority of team

* New store design- Series 7

* Implementation of People Asset Review

FAILURES:

| ¢ Implementation of new IT system did not go as smoothly as required to

run the business effectively

* Overstocks of product

¢ Shared Services caused high level of beauracracy

* Data Integrity management

* New Zealand Focus and Results

Strategia © 1996-2007 8

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part I: Pluses and Minuses (SF SWOT) Analysis (continued)

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories.

Definition: SW= The Strengths and Weaknesses of the organization. Here we

are not looking at events but at resources. Like a financial balance statement,

this measures the various “assets” and “liabilities” of the organization as it

exists at this present time and in the recent past. (Please keep answers within the

blue boxes.)

Question: What resources, personnel, unique market advantages, products,

services, and so forth, are a part of your business situation and are either strengths

(which you can build with) or weaknesses (which you can strengthen or resolve)?

STRENGTHS:

* Private label brands

* Lingerie

* Team commitment

« Bra fitting

* Store locations

WEAKNESSES:

* People focus

* Succession Planning

¢ Retention of team

* Training and Development

* Branding of Store and Product Ranges

* Speed to market for product

* Recognition and reward culture

Strategia © 1996-2007 9

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part III: Pluses and Minuses (SF SWOT) Analysis (concluded)

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories.

Definition: OT = The Opportunities and the Threats that confront the

organization. Here we are looking into the future. These are factors that are not

really under your control but must still be taken into account as you develop your