SOURCE: Strategic Planning Pre-Work_2007.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Business Analysis
SUMMARY: Evaluation of a company's strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats to inform strategic planning.
KEYWORDS: SWOT analysis, market positioning, competitive landscape, strategic planning
---

blue boxes.)

Question: What resources, personnel, unique market advantages, products,

services, and so forth, are a part of your business situation and are either strengths

(which you can build with) or weaknesses (which you can strengthen or resolve)?

STRENGTHS:

Do what it takes attitude team

Cash flow

Market leadership in category

Speed at which we can react to changes in the market

WEAKNESSES:

¢ Ina week market with the CD/DVD format not performing as strong as

previous year

* New competitors always coming up with the digital world becoming more

accessible

—

Strategia © 1996-2007 9

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part III: Pluses and Minuses (SF SWOT) Analysis (concluded)

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories.

Definition: OT = The Opportunities and the Threats that confront the

organization. Here we are looking into the future. These are factors that are not

really under your control but must still be taken into account as you develop your

strategy. (Please keep answers within the blue boxes.)

Question: What factors or conditions of your business environment pose

opportunities (which you can take advantage or capitalize on) or threats (which

must either be transformed into opportunities or be avoided by the enterprise)?

OPPORTUNITIES:

Gear, no one does apparel and music/dvd related accessories in Australia

and this is a great opportunity for us

¢ Digital, we are leading the market in Australia however there is much

more we can be doing. Great opportunity for us to own the digital format

in Australia

« Games, we have a great business model to be selling games and this is an

area that we should be in.

¢ Blue Ray/HD. A new format DVD is set to change the way people view

there movies, great way for us to capitalise on this.

THREATS:

Digital World, it is moving so fast and we need to be careful with we do

not miss the boat here,

* Supermarkets, are now selling DVDs and are stocking more and more

DVDs, this is an area we need to watch carefully as price will become

even more an issue than it Is now

Strategia © 1996-2007 10

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

2007 Pre-Work Package Conclusion

Final Comments

Please remember that your survey inputs are 100% confidential, summarized

and reported back only on an anonymous, non-attributed, group basis to

reflect straight inputs at a collective level, assuring clear messages without

any invasion of your privacy.

Thank you for your time and especially for your inputs. You have a

profound opportunity to help position BB RETAIL CAPITAL to achieve its

major goals for 2007 and beyond.

I look forward to reading what you send and then summarizing the data.

Reminder:

E-mail to: carlie@bbretailcapital.com.au

On or before: 21 September 2007

Thank you for your fast turn-around!

Bill Bean

Chairman, Strategia

Strategia © 1996-2007 11

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part I: Personal Objectives

Please answer the following question. Keep your answers within the blue boxes.

Your responses will be reviewed by the planning team as they meet in session.

1.

What issues, problems, changes, ideas need to be addressed in the

upcoming BB RETAIL CAPITAL planning session that will ensure that

we are able to aggressively and strategically move forward as a company

in the future?

Retention of key executives

Development of the emerging stars to be able to successfully deliver in

their next role.

‘Maving.a strategy or toad map for each business trying to look 3+ 4 years

there is buy.in.as.to. where we are going.

What do you believe should be considered uncompromising rules and

nonnegotiable guidelines that will ensure the highest and best use of

time, expense, and effort in the upcoming BB RETAIL CAPITAL

planning session?

* ‘Ability to speak openly without offending other brands etc.

+ »FOlldW lp post sessions to ensure something happens post conf dué'to the

«timing of this being near Xmas it‘could get lost.

a a

Strategia © 1996-2007 4

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part II: Strategic Enterprise Assessment

Below are two examples of completed Strategic Enterprise Assessment (SEA)

Wheels for two different companies. They are included as examples to illustrate

what the BB RETAIL CAPITAL SEA Wheel will potentially look like when it is

finished and to illustrate the powerful diagnostic ability of this assessment.

Summary: Weak strategic health, Summary: Strong baseline health,

needing comprehensive improvement needing focused improvement in tean/

throughout. conununicationimplementation areas.

Directions: Indicate the extent of your agreement regarding how your organ-

ization is performing in each of the following areas by circling or highlighting the

most accurate number or writing in your decimal answer (2.5, 3.5, etc.) below:

Key: 0 1 2 3 4

Strongly Partly Strongly

Disagree Disagree Agree Agree Agree

1. Our organizational structure,

roles, and responsibilities are

clearly defined and effective. 0 1 2 4

2. Our company culture is

empowering, uplifting, pleasant,

refreshing, and healthy. 0 1 3 4

Strategia © 1996-2007 5

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part I: Strategic Enterprise Assessment (continued)

3. Our executive/leadership

team is knowledgeable,

capable, and effective. 0 1 2

4. Our management/supervisory

team is knowledgeable,

capable, and effective. 0 1 2

5. Our employee/associate

team is knowledgeable,

capable, and effective. 0 I 2

6. Our communications in all

directions (up, down, across, in,

out) are efficient and effective. 0 1

7. Our technology (office, computers,

machinery, etc.) is helping us be

productive and cost-effective. 0 1 2 3

8. Our teamwork among departments,

functions, offices, work groups, and

teams is smooth and effective. 0 1 2 3 a”

9. Our customer knowledge, service,

needs-understanding, and actions

are timely and effective. 0 1 2 i) | 4

10. Our competitor knowledge, plans,

responses, and actions are ;

timely and effective. 0 1 2 Be 4

11. Our business knowledge and action

concerning our industry, trends,

economy, and global situation is

adequate. 0 1 2

12. Our financial knowledge and action

concerning sales, costs, profitability,

banking, financing, cash flow, and