SOURCE: Strategic Planning Pre-Work_2007.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Environment Analysis
SUMMARY: The text identifies key opportunities and threats facing the organization's business environment, which must be considered in developing its strategy.
KEYWORDS: SWOT analysis, business environment, strategic planning
---

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories.

Definition: OT = The Opportunities and the Threats that confront the

organization. Here we are looking into the future. These are factors that are not

really under your control but must still be taken into account as you develop your

strategy. (Please keep answers within the blue boxes.)

Question: What factors or conditions of your business environment pose

opportunities (which you can take advantage or capitalize on) or threats (which

must either be transformed into opportunities or be avoided by the enterprise)?

OPPORTUNITIES:

* Continued strength of Economy

* New shopping Centres in non competitive areas

* Introduction of new technology into business to improve productivity and

speed

¢ Additional lingerie Brands Footprints within the business

THREATS:

* Other specialty lingerie chains coming into the market

¢ Low price point fast fashion lingerie coming into the market

* Unemployment continuing to be very low

* Change of government changing workplace agreements

Strategia © 1996-2007 10

Cre

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part I: Personal Objectives

Please answer the following question. Keep your answers within the blue boxes.

Your responses will be reviewed by the planning team as they meet in session.

1. What issues, problems, changes, ideas need to be addressed in the

upcoming BB RETAIL CAPITAL planning session that will ensure that

we are able to aggressively and strategically move forward as a company

in the future?

Recruiting the right people in an increasingly competitive recruiting environment —

making working for BBRC Brands more attractive than other alternatives.

Embracing the world of technology as it impacts and adds potential to each business ~

e.g. RFID, digital distribution, the ongoing relevance (and how to utilize) of main stream

retail with rises in You Tube, Face Book, My Space etc

While appearing to be a dichotomy, ensuring that we also don’t forget the opportunity

from the Ageing population

Impact of ever increasing rent demands from landlords

In summary, the ability of the organization to react quickly, and correctly (i.e. to the

benefit of the business) to external forces and the pressures that are coming more quickly

fram thom

1. What do you believe should be considered uncompromising rules and

nonnegotiable guidelines that will ensure the highest and best use of

time, expense, and effort in the upcoming BB RETAIL CAPITAL

planning session?

dominance and everyone must participate,

There needs to be some time to “blue sky” some concepts and ideas, no matter how weird

they may appear to be — particularly when it comes to “where do we feel we will be in 5

E ; this can:cause confusion as participants will iook

heir own perspective. We need to be clear in what we want regarding this.

Strategia © 1996-2007 4

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part II: Strategic Enterprise Assessment

Below are two examples of completed Strategic Enterprise Assessment (SEA)

Wheels for two different companies. They are included as examples to illustrate

what the BB RETAIL CAPITAL SEA Wheel will potentially look like when it is

finished and to illustrate the powerful diagnostic ability of this assessment.

L

ENTERPRISE

Summary: Weak strategic health, Summary: Strong baseline health,

needing comprehensive improvement needing focused improvement in teany

throughout. connnunication/implementation areas,

Directions: Indicate the extent of your agreement regarding how your organ-

ization is performing in each of the following areas by circling or highlighting the

most accurate number or writing in your decimal answer (2.5, 3.5, etc.) below:

Key: 0 1 2 3 4

Strongly Partly Strongly

Disagree Disagree Agree Agree Agree

1. Our organizational structure,

roles, and responsibilities are

clearly defined and effective. 0 1 2 3

2. Our company culture is

empowering, uplifting, pleasant,

refreshing, and healthy. 0 1 2

Strategia © 1996-2007 5

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work

BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part II: Strategic Enterprise Assessment (continued)

3. Our executive/leadership

team is knowledgeable,

capable, and effective.

4. Our management/supervisory

team is knowledgeable,

capable, and effective.

5. Our employee/associate

team is knowledgeable,

capable, and effective.

6. Our communications in all

directions (up, down, across, in,

out) are efficient and effective.

7. Our technology (office, computers,

machinery, etc.) is helping us be

productive and cost-effective.

8, Our teamwork among departments,

functions, offices, work groups, and

teams is smooth and effective.

9, Our customer knowledge, service,

needs-understanding, and actions

are timely and effective.

10. Our competitor knowledge, plans,

responses, and actions are

timely and effective.

11. Our business knowledge and action

concerning our industry, trends,

economy, and global situation is

adequate.

12. Our financial knowledge and action

concerning sales, costs, profitability,

banking, financing, cash flow, and

equity is adequate.

13. Our strategic and business

plan content is clear, complete,

written down, and communicated.

Strategia © 1996-2007

0

4

3 4

3 4

3 4

4

4

3 4

3 4

4

4

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part II: Strategic Enterprise Assessment (continued)

14.

15.

16.

Our market strategies, including

product plans, services plans,

geographic and sales plans, are

clear, complete, and communicated. 0 i 2

Our strategic and business planning

process is clear, complete, smooth,

and effective. 0

Our strategic and business plan

implementation is timely,

disciplined, and effective. 0 1 2

Strategia © 1996-2007 7

2007 Strategic Planning Pre-Work BB RETAIL CAPITAL

Part IT:

Pluses and Minuses (SF SWOT) Analysis

Directions: Identify key lists for the following categories

Definition: SF = The Successes and Failures that have happened in the

enterprise during the last year or so. Like a financial income statement, this

category of analysis measures “what actually happened” during an indicated time

frame. (Please keep answers within the blue boxes.)

Question: What has the Company recently attempted to do in the business that

either was successful (accomplished what we were aiming for) or was unsuccessful

(did not meet our expectations), hence failures, or at the least, we “can do better.”

SUCCESSES:

Implementation of the turnaround strategic plan (the completion of “Project Phoenix”)

and corresponding excellent results in Entertainment