SOURCE: Super Smart.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Leadership Challenges
SUMMARY: This text explores four bad habits of super-smart leaders, including an excessive need to prove their intelligence.
KEYWORDS: leadership, intelligence, communication, habits, self-awareness
---

[Document: Super Smart.pdf]

16 focus

Four bad habits of

super-smart leaders

Some leaders are too clever for their own good

writing

Marshall Goldsmith

illustration

Dale Edwin Murray

While we often consider the blessings that accompany a high IQ, we seldom think of

the challenges that come with extreme intelligence. Yet there are many. In my role

as an executive coach, I have had the opportunity to work with more than 150 major

chief executives. As a group, they would score well above the norm on any standard

definition of intellectual intelligence (I am not referring to ‘emotional intelligence’,

‘artistic intelligence’ or other forms of intelligence). Although, like any group, chief

executives may do stupid things, they are seldom stupid people.

Here, I discuss four classic challenges faced by smart people – challenges that

are even more common among the ‘super-smart’ (see definition, page 19).

Dialogue Q3 2016

016-019_Dialogue_Q3_2016.indd 16 11/05/2016 12:01

focus 17

Four bad habits of

Any human –

or any animal –

will tend to replicate

behaviour that is

super-smart leaders

followed by positive

reinforcement

As I read back his verbatim comments, he

was so embarrassed. “What an ass!” he said of

himself. I replied: “You are not an ass. You are

a very good person. You just have an incredibly

high need to prove how smart you are. Perhaps,

in future, you could cut back on this a little?”

How deep must be a person’s drive to

prove they are smart for them to gain two

simultaneous doctorates from one of the top

schools in the world? Very deep. Does this ‘prove

I am smart’ need disappear when they gain

the qualifications? Not really. They don’t have

enough degrees in the world!

1 I have asked thousands of leaders to

answer this question:

PROVING HOW SMART What percentage of all interpersonal

WE ARE communications time is spent on:

A. People talking about how smart, special or

For ten years, I had the privilege of being on wonderful they are – or listening to others do this?

the board of the Peter F. Drucker Foundation. +

This gave me the opportunity to spend more B. People talking about how stupid, bad or inept

than 50 days with the man who is – to my other people are – or listening to others do this?

mind – the greatest management thinker who

has ever lived. I would definitely put Drucker The answers are amazingly consistent around

in the ‘super-smart’ as well as ‘super-wise’ the world – approximately 65%.

category. Compared to him, I would consider my How much do we learn pointing out how

intelligence and wisdom to be that of a child. smart we are? Nothing.

One of the lessons taught to me by Drucker How much do we learn pointing out how

was: “Our mission in life is to make a positive stupid other people are? Nothing.

difference – not to prove how smart we are.” How much do we learn listening to this?

It is amazing how many leaders fail to grasp Nothing.

this basic lesson. So how much interpersonal communication

One of the ‘super-smart’ leaders who I time is wasted on this? About 65%.

coached gained two simultaneous doctorates Smart people are generally considered smart

from one of the most challenging schools in the because they have proven how smart they are in

world, one in science and one in the humanities their journey through life – over and over again.

– with honours – within five years. When the They have been given lots of positive recognition

brains were handed out, he was not lurking near for being ‘smart’.

the back of the line! Any human – or any animal – will tend to

The first time I interviewed him, I took replicate behaviour that is followed by positive

copious notes. After an hour I said: “Dr Smith, let reinforcement. The more we repeat the “I am

me read back to you how often you have told me smart – I get recognition” cycle, the harder

how smart you really are. I don’t think I am as it can be to remember the excellent advice from

smart as you are, but I am not stupid. I read your Peter Drucker:

bio. Did you think you really needed to point out “Our mission in life is to make a positive difference

your brilliance to me six times in the past hour?” – not to prove how smart we are.”

Q3 2016 Dialogue

016-019_Dialogue_Q3_2016.indd 17 11/05/2016 12:01

18 focus

2

PROVING HOW RIGHT WE ARE

One night, I had dinner with a top, four- He was so smart, he knew more about the

star general from the US Army. We were other scientists’ fields than they did! The

surrounded by other two- to four-star generals. good news was that he was very honest. The

Each of these men and women had graduate bad news was that he could be incredibly blunt.

degrees and were chosen to be two- to four- When people ‘took him on’ he almost always

star generals over thousands of competitors. He proved they were wrong and he made them

asked me an interesting question: “Marshall, feel embarrassed.

who is your favourite customer?” You might guess what happened. He was

I replied: “Sir, my favourite customer always right, until the day he was wrong. He

is smart, dedicated, driven to achieve, has mistakenly supported one disastrous decision

incredible integrity, gets results – and is a that ended up reducing the market capitalization

stubborn, opinionated know-it-all who never of the company by more than $10bn!

wants to admit he or she is wrong.” After this disaster, several of the scientists

I looked around the room and asked: “Do you who worked for him were interviewed. They all

think any of the generals in this very room may said they had had doubts about the project, but

fit such a description?” they never raised them. Why? Since Dr Jones was