SOURCE: Super Smart.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Leadership and Emotional Intelligence
SUMMARY: The text discusses the distinction between intelligence and wisdom, highlighting how great leaders focus on helping others succeed rather than proving their own superiority.
KEYWORDS: leadership, emotional intelligence, wisdom, success, mentoring
---

[Document: Super Smart.pdf]

his colleagues were not the unusual ones – he difficult this may be to understand.

was! I pointed out that no-one in the room but

him had an IQ of 170. They were good people, A final thought

who worked hard, they were smart people. They Great leaders help others to succeed

One of the greatest leaders I have ever met

taught me a wonderful lesson: “For the great

individual achiever, it is all about me. For the

great leader, it is all about them.”

WHAT IS SUPER-SMART? It can be incredibly difficult to make the

transition from ‘it is all about me – proving I am

While almost all chief executives would be smart, proving I am right, knowing all of the

considered ‘smart’, I would classify some as answers’ – to it is all about them – ‘proving they

‘super-smart’. While I don’t have a precise are right and being proud of them having

definition of super-smart, I will give the the answers’.

term a very personal perspective. At the risk There can be a huge difference between

appearing immodest, I would consider myself intelligence and wisdom. While smart leaders

to be ‘smart’. I have a PhD from UCLA, my may spend their time proving how clever they

Scholastic Assessment Test and Graduate are, wise leaders spend their time helping other

Management Admission Test scores were people be the heroes.

exceptionally high, I have published 35 books — Dr Marshall Goldsmith is a world authority in

and three New York Times bestsellers and helping successful leaders achieve positive, lasting

I was recently ranked as the number one change in behaviour: for themselves, their people

leadership thinker in the world. I consider and their teams. He is the million-selling author or

most of the leaders that I am discussing in editor of 31 books, including the New York Times

the article to be a lot smarter than I am. and Wall Street Journal bestsellers, Mojo and What

Got You Here Won’t Get You There

Q3 2016 Dialogue

016-019_Dialogue_Q3_2016.indd 19 11/05/2016 12:01