SOURCE: Super Smart.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges that super-smart leaders face in listening to others and admitting they could be wrong, often leading to destructive behavior.
KEYWORDS: super-smart leaders, communication issues, humility, feedback, organizational dynamics
---

[Document: Super Smart.pdf]

incredible integrity, gets results – and is a that ended up reducing the market capitalization

stubborn, opinionated know-it-all who never of the company by more than $10bn!

wants to admit he or she is wrong.” After this disaster, several of the scientists

I looked around the room and asked: “Do you who worked for him were interviewed. They all

think any of the generals in this very room may said they had had doubts about the project, but

fit such a description?” they never raised them. Why? Since Dr Jones was

He laughed and replied: “We have a target- convinced that this was the right thing to do,

rich opportunity!” they assumed he must be correct. Even though

It is incredibly difficult for super-smart they had doubts, they didn’t want to take him

people to hear something with which they on and risk being humiliated.

disagree, without proving that the other person One of the telltale comments that I often

is wrong. After all, if others disagree with us, receive in 360° feedback from direct reports is:

we assume, because we are so smart, they must “He doesn’t bear fools gladly!”

be wrong. They may not be stupid people, they Any leader who takes this feedback as a

are just confused on this particular issue. The badge of honour is making a mistake. Unless the

higher up we move in leadership, the more chief executive is managing a group of ‘fools’ – a

destructive this habit may become. situation I have never encountered – the real

One of the ‘super-smart’ scientists I message behind this feedback is: “This leader

worked with, Dr Jones, led the research and always has to prove he or she is right and treats

development function for a large corporation. people who disagree with him or her as fools.”

3

I ALREADY KNOW THAT

It is incredibly difficult for smart people to listen In future, listen to other people respond to

to someone tell them something they know ideas they agree with. You will be amazed how

without pointing out: “I already know that.” many times the first word out of the person’s

Imagine you are my boss. I am young, mouth is “no”.

dedicated and enthusiastic. I come to you with Grammatically, this makes no sense. If we

an idea. You think it is a great idea. agree with someone, why don’t we say: “Yes, I

Rather than just saying: “Great idea!” which agree with you!”

gives credit to the other person, the tendency is The “no” means: “Of course I agree with you.

to say: “That is a great idea, I already knew that!” I already knew that. You are confusing me with

which gives credit to yourself. someone who needs to hear you right now.” It’s

Next time, just say: “Great idea!” subconscious, of course. Inside the mind, the

What is probably the most common phrase super-smart leader probably thinks that he or

uttered by smart people when others say she is doing the right thing – giving praise for

something that we agree with? “No, I agree an idea. But the “no” sounds negative and takes

with you.” away the praise, just leaving the sense that there

Sometimes we say: “No, I think that is no idea in the world that the leader didn’t

is fantastic!” have first.

Dialogue Q3 2016

016-019_Dialogue_Q3_2016.indd 18 11/05/2016 12:01

focus 19

4

WHY CAN’T THEY BE ME?

Joe, one of the ‘super-smart’ leaders I have

coached, graduated as the valedictorian of an

Ivy League school. His parents were very poor

and he had to work his way through both high

school and college. Graduating as the top

student at a top school when you are given

no advantages as a child is an amazing

achievement. Joe was both brilliant and

incredibly hardworking.

Joe faced a classic challenge common

to the ‘super-smart’. He could not

understand why other people failed to see

solutions that seemed obvious to him.

I watched as he led his team meeting.

Each of his direct reports was instructed to

share an update on their progress against

each of their key objectives. One person

was clearly having problems meeting goals.

Joe said: “Have you thought of trying X?” were just not quite as smart as he was. Almost

The direct report replied: “No, I never nobody in the world was quite as smart as he

thought of that.” was. Joe needed to learn to work with normal

Joe became very frustrated: “Can’t you see human beings. I also added that, unless he

how X would help you solve your problem? It changed, no-one who was as smart as he was

seems obvious to me!” would ever want to work for him.

Joe then looked around the table and said, ‘Super-smart’ people can often make

“Didn’t any of you think of X?” When it was connections and see patterns that are not

clear that no-one had, he grunted: “I cannot obvious to normal people – or even ‘smart’

believe that I am the only person in the room people. It can be challenging for any of us to

that figured this out! What were all of you accept that what may seem obvious to us may

thinking about?” be a complete mystery to the people around us.

After the meeting, I had to explain to Joe that In many cases, the smarter we are, the more

his colleagues were not the unusual ones – he difficult this may be to understand.

was! I pointed out that no-one in the room but

him had an IQ of 170. They were good people, A final thought

who worked hard, they were smart people. They Great leaders help others to succeed

One of the greatest leaders I have ever met

taught me a wonderful lesson: “For the great

individual achiever, it is all about me. For the

great leader, it is all about them.”

WHAT IS SUPER-SMART? It can be incredibly difficult to make the