SOURCE: Team Building Without Time Wasting - latest.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Team Building
SUMMARY: A mini-survey to assess team member effectiveness and facilitate team improvement through regular feedback and follow-up.
KEYWORDS: team effectiveness, team feedback, team development, team improvement, team member evaluation
---

[Document: Team Building Without Time Wasting - latest.pdf]

This four question survey can either be electronically distributed

electronically or ‘put on a postcard” and might look like the sample below.

Figure 1: Sample Mini-Survey

Do you believe this person has become more (or less) effective in the past six months in regards to the

following items? (Please circle the number that best matches your estimate of any change in

effectiveness.)

Less Effective No More Effective No Not

Perceptible Change Enough

Change Needed Informa

tion

Team Item

1. Clarifies roles and

expectations with -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 NCN NI

fellow team members

Individual Item

2. Genuinely listens to

others -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 NCN NI

General Item

3. Is an effective team

member -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 NCN NI

4. How frequently has this person followed up with you on the areas that he or she has been trying to

improve? (Check one.)

___ No Perceptible Follow-Up

___ Little Follow-Up

___ Some Follow-Up

___ Frequent Follow-Up

___ Consistent (Periodic) Follow-Up

5. What can this individual do to become a more effective team member?

Step Nine. Calculate the results for each individual (on all items) and

calculate the summary results for all team members (on the common team

items). Each team member can then receive a confidential summary report

indicating the degree to which colleagues see his or her increased effectiveness

in demonstrating the desired behaviors. Each member can also receive a

summary report on the team’s progress on the items selected for all team

members.

“Before and after” studies have clearly shown that if team members have

regularly followed up with their colleagues they will almost invariably be seen

as increasing their effectiveness in their selected individual “areas for

improvement.” The group summary will also tend to show that (overall) team

members will have increased in effectiveness on the common team items and

overall team member behavior. The mini-survey summary report will give

team members a chance to receive positive reinforcement for improvement

(and to learn what has not improved) after a reasonably short period of time.

The mini-survey will also help to validate the importance of “sticking with it”

and “following up.”

Step Ten. In a team meeting have each team member discuss key learning

from their mini-survey results, and ask for further suggestions in a brief one-

on-one dialogue with each other team member.

Step Eleven. Review the summary results with the team. Facilitate a

discussion on how the team (as a whole) is doing in terms of increasing its

effectiveness in the key behavior that was selected for all team members.

Provide the team with positive recognition for increased effectiveness in

teamwork. Encourage team members to keep focused on demonstrating the

behaviors that they are trying to improve.

Step Twelve. Have every team member continue to conduct brief, monthly,

“progress report” sessions with all other team members. Re-administer the

mini-survey eight months after the beginning of the process and again after

one year.

Step Thirteen. Conduct a summary session with the team one year after the

process has started. Review the results of the final mini-survey, and ask the

team members to rate the team’s effectiveness on where we are versus where

we need to be in terms of working together as a team. Compare these ratings

with the original ratings that were calculated one year earlier. (If team

members followed the process in a reasonably disciplined fashion, the team

will almost always see a dramatic improvement in teamwork.) Give the team

positive recognition for improvement in teamwork, and have each team

member (in a brief one-on-one dialogue) recognize each of his or her

colleagues for improvements in behavior that have occurred over the past

twelve months.

Step Fourteen. Ask the team members if they believe that more work on

team building will be needed in the upcoming year. If the team believes that

more work would be beneficial, continue the process. If the team believes that

more work is not needed, declare victory and work on something else!

Why This Process Works

The process described above works because it is highly focused, includes

disciplined feedback and follow-up, does not waste time, and causes par-

ticipants to focus on self-improvement.

Most survey feedback processes ask respondents to complete too many items.

In such surveys most of the items do not result in any behavioral change and

participants feel they are wasting time. Participants almost never object to

completing four-item mini-surveys that are specifically designed to fit each

team member’s unique needs. The process also works because it provides

ongoing feedback and reinforcement. Most survey processes provide

participants with feedback every twelve to twenty-four months. Any research

on behavioral change will show that feedback and reinforcement for new

behavior needs to occur much more frequently than yearly or bi-yearly. A

final reason that the process works is because it encourages participants to

focus on self-improvement. Many team-building processes degenerate because

team members are primarily focused on solving someone else’s problems. This

process works because it encourages team members to focus primarily on

solving their own problems!

Let us close with a challenge to you (the reader) as a team leader. Try it! The

“downside” is very low. The process takes little time and the first mini-survey

will quickly show whether progress is being made. The “upside” can be very

high. As effective teamwork becomes more and more important, the brief

amount of time that you invest in this process may produce a great return for

your team and an even greater return for you organization.

Marshall Goldsmith is an executive educator, coach and million-selling author

of numerous books – including the New York Times bestsellers, MOJO and

What Got You Here Won’t Get You There, the Harold Longman Award

winner for Business Book of the Year.

The article was modified in January 2012. The original version was

published in:

Coaching for Leadership: How the World's Greatest Coaches Help

Leaders Learn, edited by: Marshall Goldsmith, Laurence Lyons,