SOURCE: Team Building Without Time Wasting - latest.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021
TOPIC: Collaborative Team Building
SUMMARY: This text discusses how leaders can build effective teams in an environment of rapid change and limited resources through a structured team-building process.
KEYWORDS: team building, leadership, rapid change, collaborative process
---

[Document: Team Building Without Time Wasting - latest.pdf]

TEAM BUILDING WITHOUT

TIME WASTING

Marshall Goldsmith and Howard Morgan

A

s major organizations have to learn to deal with increasingly rapid

change, teams are becoming more and more important. As the

traditional, hierarchical school of leadership diminishes in significance, a new

focus on networked team leadership is emerging to take its place. Leaders are

finding themselves members of all kinds of teams, including virtual teams,

autonomous teams, cross-functional teams, and action-learning teams.

Many of today’s leaders face a dilemma: as the need to build effective

teams is increasing, the time available to build these teams is often decreasing.

A common challenge faced by today’s leaders is the necessity of building

teams in an environment of rapid change with limited resources. The process

of re-engineering and streamlining, when coupled with increased demand for

services, has led to a situation in which most leaders have more work to do

and fewer staff members to help them do it.

Research involving thousands of participants has shown how focused

feedback and follow-up can increase leadership effectiveness – as judged by

direct reports and co-workers (Goldsmith and Morgan 2004). A parallel ap-

proach to team building has been shown to help leaders build teamwork

without wasting time. While the approach described sounds simple, it will not

be easy. It will require each team member has have the courage to regularly

ask for – and learn from – ongoing suggestions from fellow team members.

To successfully implement the following team-building process, the leader

(or external consultant) will need to assume the role of coach or facilitator and

fight the urge to be the “boss” or “instructor”. Greater improvement in

teamwork tends to occur when team members develop their own behavioral

change strategies rather just executing a change strategy that has been

imposed upon them by the “boss”.

Steps in the Process

Step One. Begin by asking all members of the team to confidentially record

their individual answers to two questions: (1) “On a 1 to 10 scale (with 10

being ideal), how well are we doing in terms of working together as a team?”

and (2) “On a 1 to 10 scale, how well do we need to be doing in terms of

working together as a team?”

Before beginning a team-building process, it is important to determine

whether the team feels that team building is both important and needed. Some

people may report to the same manager, but legitimately have little reason to

work interactively as a team. Other groups may believe that teamwork is

important, but feel that the team is already functioning smoothly and that a

team-building activity would be a waste of time.

Step Two. Have a team member calculate the results. Discuss the results

with the team. If the team members believe that the gap between current

effectiveness and needed effectiveness indicates the need for team building,

proceed to the next step in the process.

In the vast majority of cases team members believe that improved teamwork

is both important and needed. Interviews involving members from several

hundred teams (in multinational corporations) showed that the “average”

team member believed that his or her team was currently functioning at a 5.8

level of effectiveness but needed to be at an 8.7 level.

Step Three. Ask the team members, “If every team member could change

two key behaviors that would help us close the gap between where we are and

where we want to be, which two behaviors we all should try to change?” Have

each team member record his or her selected behaviors on flip charts.

Step Four. Help team members prioritize all the behaviors on the charts

(many will be the same or similar) and (using consensus) determine the most

important behavior to change (for all team members).

Step Five. Have each team member hold a one-on-one dialogue with all

other team members. During the dialogues each member will request that his

or her colleague suggest two areas for personal behavioral change (other than

the one already agreed on above) that will help the team close the gap between

where we are and where we want to be.

These dialogues occur simultaneously and take about five minutes each. For

example, if there are seven team members, each team member will participate

in six brief one-on-one dialogues.

Step Six. Let each team member review his or her list of suggested be-

havioral changes and choose the one that seems to be the most important.

Have all team members then announce their one key behavior for personal

change to the team.

Step Seven. Encourage all team members to ask for brief (five-minute),

monthly three question “suggestions for the future” from all other team

members to help increase their effectiveness in demonstrating 1) the one key

behavior common to all team members, 2) the one key personal behavior

generated from team member input, and 3) overall effective behavior as a

team member.

Step Eight. Conduct a mini-survey, follow-up process in approximately six

months. From the mini-survey each team member will receive confidential

feedback from all other team members on his or her perceived change in

effectiveness. This survey will include the one common behavioral item, the

one personal behavioral item, and the overall team member item. A final

question can gage the level of follow-up – so that team members can see the

connection between their level of follow-up and their increased effectiveness.

This four question survey can either be electronically distributed

electronically or ‘put on a postcard” and might look like the sample below.

Figure 1: Sample Mini-Survey

Do you believe this person has become more (or less) effective in the past six months in regards to the

following items? (Please circle the number that best matches your estimate of any change in

effectiveness.)

Less Effective No More Effective No Not

Perceptible Change Enough

Change Needed Informa

tion

Team Item

1. Clarifies roles and

expectations with -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 NCN NI

fellow team members

Individual Item