SOURCE: Team Day Agenda_Template.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Team Building
SUMMARY: This document provides a template for a team day agenda, including icebreakers, goal setting, praise, results sharing, feedback, and other activities to foster teamwork and collaboration.
KEYWORDS: team building, team day, icebreaker, goal setting, feedback
---

Team Day Agenda Template

1. Icebreaker

Creating teamwork, fun & rapport.

Start the day with an icebreaker exercise to get everyone warmed up and

feeling relaxed. Some successful icebreakers are listed the following

page.

2. Goals

Allow everyone to contribute and outline the outcomes of the day.

Ask everyone what they want to learn on the day and write it on the

board. Then at the end of the day before the ‘One Question’, ask the

team if you achieved each and tick them off. If you haven’t ticked 100%,

see if you can close it out on the spot or take it up with the individual who

raised the point later at a 1:1 meeting.

3. Praise

Creates positivity and intimacy and is ideally done straight after the icebreaker/goals.

Top thanks to one person in the room – give examples and link to our

Aventus Way. E.g. “I want to praise Adam for finding a better way with the

leasing team last month on restructuring the team and persisting on

improving the HOA and TIF process.”

4. Results

Create context for the day, transparency and a reminder on “know your numbers.”

At each of our high focus days with Brett...he always kicks off the day with

going around the room and asking for “your results and numbers”. Either

individually or via the facilitator/manager, ask your team for an update on their

KPIs or other measurable results from their Trello boards to show how the

department or the company is tracking, whether we are ahead or behind,

leading to transparency for everyone.

5. Start, Stop, Keep

Flushes out new ideas and frustrations can be shared, aired and solved.

Before the day, ask your team to prepare one answer to what we

should start doing, stop doing and keep doing and bring along

ready to share on the day. We do in this order to have something

positive, negative, then positive. Best to use large post-it notes on

the wall for transparency.

6. One Question

Fosters curiosity and bonds your team.

At the end of the day – “One Question” is a BBRC tradition and we

need to get back into this rhythm. We love learning and value

curiosity and some great ideas will arise from this section. Tell your

team all questions are welcome even if they feel they are silly or

obvious. 3 years ago a team member asked...” why don’t we email

invoices” in this One Question and 6 months later we stopped

mailing 500 invoices a month!

7. Feedback

Gain feedback on how to improve the workshop and what your team learnt and most importantly will

implement.

Before they leave the room ask your team verbalise what they liked

and what they didn’t of the day. A simple verbal close from each

delegate can materially affect the positive recollection of the days

overall experience and you can gain valuable feedback on the on

what you should Start, Stop, Keep for next time!

Icebreakers – some examples

1• Draw a picture on a t-shirt that 5• Name something that happened in

explains who you are. the last 90 days that you are proud

of.

2• List 3 things about you. 2 which are

true and 1 which isn’t. Team to guess 6• Tell us one thing that we don’t know

which isn’t true. about you.

3• List three things that bring you energy. When you were a child, what did you

List three things that drain your energy. 7• want to be when you grew up?

What did you parents want

4• Describe a time you felt pushed to your you to be?

limit.