SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Sales Strategies
SUMMARY: The text provides strategies for boosting sales, such as offering add-ons, upselling, and building team confidence through successful sales techniques.
KEYWORDS: Brazin culture, sales tactics, add-ons, upselling, team confidence
---

the team are losing sales and when you can offer

concrete help that will make a difference to the way

they do things long after your visit.

Of course there are times when you are

needed to dive on in and help, but make

those times count!

Use it as your opportunity to sell more add-

ons at the counter, use it as your opportunity

to get three items for each sale, use it as

your opportunity to upsell and in so doing,

teach your team that anything is possible

and that it’s all enormous fun!

Understand the real reasons behind the washbag

and the CD cleaner. Of course it adds to the

turnover, but more importantly it adds to our team’s

confidence - if they can add on to a customer’s

sale at the counter, just imagine what they could do

on the floor! If they’ve been able to sell the add-on

to one customer, it’s easier to offer it to the next

customer, the one after that and the one ofter that.

With increasing poise, they seek out new and more

creative ways to improve that KPI ... and all of a

sudden, exceeding budget for the day doesn’t

seem so hard after all!

Page 21

BRAZIN MAGIC

It’s part of our culture that we are always well

prepared. That places onus on you as the Senior

Manager to ensure you are always at a store by 8.30

- so why not consider leaving a bit earlier, miss the

traffic and ask the Store Manager to meet you at

8.00 for a coffee and a catch up? It’s a great

opportunity to build on a relationship, set the tone

for the visit, hear the problems or celebrate the

successes and because it’s not as rushed as we

often make our visits - what is said is perceived to be

more genuine and sincere.

Likewise at the Support Centre - when was the last

time you made time for an 8.00 morning coffee with

one of your team members. Remember the

emphasis we place on teamwork and encouraging

each person to be their best? Diving into your own

work first thing in the morning is generally a poor

example of leadership. You need to set the team up

for the day - understand their objectives, hear a

problem, encourage a positive attitude, discuss

yesterday's outcomes, guide their thinking.

At no time is this better exemplified than in the first

few minutes of the store visit. This is a retail example,

but in each department other examples abound.

Your aim is to let the team know you are there to

help - so the very worst thing you could do at this

point would be to jump on the phone to greet your

other stores! Instead, help set up the racks out the

front, pull out the vacuum cleaner - 99 times out of

100 some-one will take over from you, but the

message you have sent has been received loud and

clear!

Page 22

BRAZIN MAGIC

That’s why we would never point the way to

anything in store. That’s why there must

always be a brief behind each bra. That’s

why we must always take the matching brief

into the Fitting Room. That’s why we always

replace cracked covers. That’s why our

team need to have the very best product

knowledge. That’s why we always comment

positively at the counter on what the

customer is buying - we want to reinforce

the purchase and make them feel good

about what they have bought.

That’s why we always hand the bag fo the

customer ... and that’s why we always wear

our biggest, brightest, happiest smile -

because we are making people feel good

about themselves and important to us.

Store Positioning is critical to the success of our

merchant mentality - we can’t be in all places at

once and if we’re not on the floor, accessible to our

customers because we’re behind the counter,

we've lost sales ... guaranteed. If we haven't got it

and we can’t switch sell - we go with a customer

order, the total of which by the way, is the

equivalent to an additional big store in each chain!

When was the last time you promoted customer

orders in your morning call? They are part of our

non-negotiables, as are the Weekly Memo or WASP,

the washbag and the CD cleaner add-ons and for

Bras‘n Things add in the Comfort Promise Card. Non-

negotiables ... measurable standards ... we do these

things, all the time because they make a difference.

Page 27

BRAZIN MAGIC

From time to time we are asked, why isn’t the

greeting within 30 seconds a non-negotiable?

Simple answer - you cannot have non-negotiable

standard that cannot be enforced all the time. A

one person store taking a customer’s phone call is

going to find it hard to greet the four individuals

who've just walked into their store within 30 seconds,

Reason tells us that, so how can we drive any non-

negotiable when it is just not physically possible to

achieve? Only ask for what you can follow up!

All our non-negotiables are carefully

selected to ensure that they are possible for

each team member to carry out with each

customer, no matter how new or how

experienced they are.

So use them, they are part of the culture and

by being disciplined in our execution of

them, we cannot help but give outstanding

customer satisfaction.

Focusing on things like non-negotiables reinforces to

our team that what they are doing is right. Most

retailers love to serve customers - what gets them

confused is the mixed messages about their priorities.

Once again, make customers the focus for your

team and we'll be breeding an exceptional culture.

We often speak about Moments of Truth for our

customers ... those critical make or break split-

second experiences that help them decide whether

this feels right or not. Indeed, many a Managers’