SOURCE: The Opportunity In Bad Reviews - Forbes.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific\2016.03 HFT - Customer Complaints
TOPIC: Online Reputation Management
SUMMARY: The article discusses how bad reviews can be an opportunity for businesses to learn, improve, and turn frustrated customers into loyal supporters.
KEYWORDS: online reviews, reputation management, customer experience, customer feedback, business improvement
---

2/26/2016 The¡Opportunity¡In¡Bad¡Reviews¡®¡Forbes

http://onforb.es/1iO4ZQK

WomensMedia¡Contributor

Follow me if you’re a businesswoman wanting success and fulfillment.

Opinions¡expressed¡by¡Forbes¡Contributors¡are¡their¡own.

FORBESWOMAN ¡6/27/2014¡@¡5:53PM¡ 2,987¡views

The Opportunity In Bad Reviews

By Victoria Treyger

Reviews have become a key metric for the health of your online

reputation, and a persistent feedback meter for your customer

experience. Customers regularly use reviews as part of their

decision making process, and the feedback that customers

provide you in reviews is a critical tool to help you grow and

improve your business. So it can be intimidating to run a

business in an era where one bad review can feel like a death

sentence.

Without question, the best way to protect and grow your

business’s reputation is to provide the best customer experience

you can. Once the reviews are in though, managing that

reputation requires aggressive supervision of online reviews and

prompt action. The great news about negative reviews is that

they are actually an opportunity for your business—an

opportunity to learn and improve your processes, and an

opportunity to turn a frustrated customer into a loyal promoter

for your business. Think about it—if you take an unhappy

customer and solve the problem that was frustrating enough for

her to take the time to leave an online review, you have a good

shot of turning her into a loyal supporter for your business.

Follow these recommendations to take charge of your reviews

and your online reputation.

1. Respond Quickly and Objectively

If you receive a bad online review, immediately attempt to open

communication with the reviewer. Respond promptly and

professionally. Use the site where the review is posted to send a

http://www.forbes.com/sites/womensmedia/2014/06/27/the®opportunity®in®bad®reviews/print/ 1/4

2/26/2016 The¡Opportunity¡In¡Bad¡Reviews¡®¡Forbes

private message asking how you can fix the problem and what

you can personally do to make up for the inconvenience or bad

experience. You may also want to reply publicly on the platform

so that other customers can see that you are addressing the

concern.

Make sure you fully address the issue and find out what caused

your customer’s negative experience. Negative reviews are a

great way to learn and move forward from mistakes while also

building a stronger relationship with your customer base.

Be thorough and attentive to your customer’s concerns, but

don’t be drawn into a back­and­forth argument with a reviewer

or community. Never insult a reviewer, or speak to her less

respectfully than you would if she were standing in your

business. The goal should be a single response demonstrating

that you care about the customer and are working to resolve the

issue.

Your response should always include an apology as well as a

question for the reviewer about what your business could do

better next time. Thank your reviewer for taking the time to help

you improve your business. Your goal should be to resolve her

problem and ultimately win her back. If you are successful in

doing so, you can ask her to come back to the site and update

the review with the resolution. Your ability to resolve a

customer’s frustration is a big win for your business and will

demonstrate to other customers that you care and are

responsive to customers’ concerns.

If the review is abusive or verifiably false, request to have it

removed from the site. Most sites, especially Yelp, will not

remove reviews, despite sometimes filtering out positive reviews

as fraudulent. If you have a good case that the review is libelous,

a site might remove it. You may also have the option to flag the

comment for review to signal others that the review might not

be completely truthful.

2. Learn From Your Reviews

Like any legitimate complaint, a bad review is learning

experience. If the customer’s bad experience was the result of

oversight or an off­day, be honest. Mention what steps have

been taken to resolve the issue and invite the reviewing

customer to return to see the improvements or receive a small

restitution. Once the situation is resolved, take steps to ensure

the bad experience won’t be repeated.

If you notice a pattern in your negative reviews, take action.

Your customers are giving you free feedback on how to improve

your business.

If many reviews reference unpleasant interactions with the same

employee, look into their attitude and take corrective action. Be

direct about the source of concern: acting on customer

complaints sets an example for your employees and lets them

know that customer feedback is valued. If multiple reviews

point to a problem with a particular process, use it as a training

opportunity to revamp that process. For example, in the hotel

business, many negative reviews highlight a specific process like

slow check in or lack of coffee makers in the room. Many of

http://www.forbes.com/sites/womensmedia/2014/06/27/the®opportunity®in®bad®reviews/print/ 2/4

2/26/2016 The¡Opportunity¡In¡Bad¡Reviews¡®¡Forbes

these are easy fixes so smart hotel managers are always

monitoring for key themes like this as opportunities to improve

their service delivery.

3. Highlight Positive Aspects of Your Business

While it may not seem like it, responding to reviews gives you

an opportunity to speak positively about your business.

Reviewers are more likely to post reviews after an unsatisfying

experience than a satisfying one, but positive reviews, especially

unsolicited testimonials, are precious currency. Use your social

media platforms to draw attention to positive reviews. Highlight

your favorite reviews on Facebook or Twitter. Repost a few

sentences of a great review on your business’s homepage for

everyone to see. Most sites allow this, as long as you clearly

label the content as belonging to the review site and use a “read

more here” link. Simply asking your customers to review can

make all the difference: encourage them to “like,” “follow,” and

“check in” when they’re pleased with your service.

4. Law of Numbers

Overwhelm negative reviews with positive ones. Don’t worry

about optimizing review content for search engines; instead,

focus on getting a high volume of positive reviews so your

overall search results reflect well on your business. The search

engines will do their work if you do yours.