SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Communication Effectiveness
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of effective communication, including the use of a weekly memo, team meetings, and avoiding harmful communication behaviors.
KEYWORDS: communication, weekly memo, team meetings, communication effectiveness, corporate culture
---

was the highway you should have been taking ...

and all because our communication was ineffective!

Page 40

BRAZIN MAGIC

Our major communication tool today, the

Weekly Memo or Wasp came as a result of

foo much communication hitting the stores

on a daily basis.

Brett determined instead that to be effective,

all communication would go through one

channel, arrive on one day throughout the

country and that we would have every team

member understand that it was a non-

negotiable to read it, action it and follow it

up.

Needless to say, it is now one of the most

effective communication tools we have in

our business today. It’s our Bible and in all

the years that it has been sent out to stores,

there has not been one day that it has been

late.

That too, is a non-negotiable and it shows

that the higher the standards you set, the

higher your team will perform!

It’s easy in a face to face conversation to determine

whether your message has been received and will

be acted upon. if there’s a problem, you can

quickly rectify it, check for understanding and make

the necessary changes.

It’s harder over the phone, which is why your

questions need to be more detailed ... tell me how:

what happened here; what was the final result of ...

and so on - always drilling deeper to satisfy yourself

that the communication was successful. Don’t take

chances, write things down from your telephone

communication that needs to be followed up - your

team will appreciate your guidance and direction.

Page 41

BRAZIN MAGIC

Team Meetings are the perfect opportunity for

everyone to get together ... to share information ...

to learn new procedures ... to reinforce standards ...

to celebrate results and successes ... fo determine a

fresh approach to outcomes that are not where they

should be.

In the spirit of learning that is taking place,

other intangibles are also at work. The

culture is being built; the spirit of teamwork is

more than evident; people are realising that

their issues are not isolated ones and that is

giving them the confidence to proceed with

their decisions; they are being motivated by

increased confidence and self esteem and

they are coming together in the most worthy

of ways ... to achieve goals that lift their

spirit and engage their passion.

Make your meetings count, make your

training sessions count, make every

communication count.

Your team doesn’t just need practical skills,

they need you to be inspiring ... they need

you to share your stories of growth with

them, to encourage their heart.

It’s against our culture to be patronising or lecturing;

we would never yell at a team member; we would

never be rude; we would never hang up the phone

in a burst of temper; we would never slam objects

aground to make a point and we would never

substitute somebody's first name with love, sweetie,

or a derogatory nickname; all these kill a

relationship; kill communication and kill our culture.

Page 42

BRAZIN MAGIC

They also kill the trust that you are working so hard to

develop with the team. Trust is the foundation of alll

relationships and is based on a giving and receiving

of respect; a willingness to listen; a willingness to

share; a willingness to be involved and importantly ...

a willingness to give and receive feedback about

our culture and our performance.

If you are going to talk the talk you must

walk the walk.

If you are going to give feedback to one of

your team, you must be scrupulously sure

that .you personally are doing what is

needed.

There is no place in Brazin for those who

don’t practise what they teach, our hands-

on culture quickly determines those who are

genuine and those who are simply going

through the motions.

Your team need guidance if they are to

grow, but they need it from some-one who

knows them, some-one they trust, some-one

they respect, some-one who is genuinely

concerned for them and who cares

passionately whether they succeed or fail.

That’s when they'll listen, because you are

showing them how to do things differently ...

you are showing them that what they do

matters enormously and you are being the

best manager that anyone could ask for ...

their coach.

Page 43