SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 2.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and Mindset Change
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of embracing a flexible, adaptable, and dynamic mindset aligned with the company's culture and core values to achieve success.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, mindset change, adaptation, core values, success
---

to the view that you have of yourself as flexible,

adaptable and dynamic - live a new mind set; a

mind set that is open to the possibilities that anything

can be achieved if it is in line with our culture and

our core values.

Unlearn what you have learned simply means being

open to the potential - there are other ways; there

are better ways than the ones you have become

used to and the sooner you are able to change your

mind set, the sooner you will be achieving success.

Our culture is so strong because we have

know in our hearts that what we are doing is

tight. If, in the simplest of terms, we take

care of our customers (both internal and

external) and if we take care of our team,

how can we go wrong?

Page 73

BRAZIN MAGIC

Changing your mind set applies equally to

taking on a new position - whether a

promotion in the same division or a move

over into a new department.

Have you stopped to consider all that will be

expected of you in the new role ... the

results, the behaviours, the style of

management and the priorities that you'll

need to change or have you dived right in

without foo much thought and a “she’ll be

right” attitude?

Our culture is one of limitless possibility - everyone

gets a chance to succeed. Indeed, Brett has grown

the business by taking young, raw, passionate

recruits and changing their mind set .. turning them

into our future leaders. That of course means that

some won‘t make the grade, but the others that put

the time and effort into learning a new culture, have

been richly rewarded along the way.

If we don’t invest the time and effort needed

when taking on a new role, we cannot

expect to achieve success. Once again,

our culture is at work - if it is to be, it’s up to

me. We are given the opportunities, it’s what

we do with those opportunities that counts!

Look around you - each person is here to help you

succeed. Often this too, requires a change in mind-

set. True executives are not afraid to admit when

they need helo - but in our willingness to seek

solutions, we go prepared with a plan. That way,

time is not wasted and we are already learning.

Page 74

BRAZIN MAGIC

Unlearn what you have learned ... re-write

the script in your mind! Just because you

didn’t succeed yesterday doesn’t mean you

won’t succeed today. Instead, change your

mind set.

Focus on the results or the outcome you

need and plan a different strategy. There is

always more than one right answer and we

need to learn to see the problem from more

than one perspective. That’s our culture,

that’s being a true Brazin leader.

There are many situations which require us to adopt

a different mentality, a different way of thinking. We

are. here for the long term and we would never

sacrifice that for making a short term win, no matter

how appealing.

A retailer’s constant battle is with the landlords - the

leasing team that we are quite happy to drink with

after work, but the next day we need to be aware

that we are on opposite sides of the fence. It is the

landlord’s job to force up occupancy costs. If is our

job as Brazin executives to ensure that we pay as

little occupancy cost as possible, as every extra

dollar erodes our profits.

However, it doesn’t stop at one store. With every

individual rental increase, we have increased the

cost of doing business in all our stores. With every

ordinary deal we accept, we have increased the

cost of doing business in all our stores. We need to

recognise that if we stand firm and say no to

anything other than outstanding, there will be other,

better opportunities when we call the state of play!

Page 75

BRAZIN MAGIC

This is a mind set change for many

executives, but this is our culture and this is

what will be asked of you. We treat our

landlords as customers when paying their

rent on time because at that point in time,

we are customers of each other.

When however, it comes to negotiating the

next deal we must never settle for second

best. As a retailer here for the long term, we

must protect our long term assets - and one

of those is our low occupancy costs.

It didn’t get like that overnight! It was a hard fought

battle and one that continues to be raged in every

Centre whenever there is a market review or a new

store opportunity. Keeping firm to your beliefs is

critical and there is no greater example than Brett in

this regard. Yes, the landlords might not like our

toughness but they respect it, because they

recognise the greatness inherent in it.

Changing our mind set can be difficult

initially but once we understand the logic

behind each decision that Brett makes for

Brazin, we can change previous attitudes.

Likewise, understand our attitude to Shopping

Centre advertising. We don’t participate in the

Centre’s advertising, because we already pay into

the Centre’s marketing and promotions fund. It is

the job of the Centre to bring traffic into our stores. It

is our job to encourage the customers that are in the

Centre to come into our stores, It is a waste of

advertising dollars to participate in a catalogue, a

fashion parade or newspaper advertising.

Page 76

BRAZIN MAGIC

Let go of the negative, open our mind to new ideas,

new possibilities and we can achieve far more than

we thought possible. How often has this been

demonstrated in our IT department? How often

have we been recommended to spend thousands

and thousands of dollars on costly new systems,

when in actual fact it was a people and culture

problem from the start?