SOURCE: The Big Idea Accelerate!.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Organizational Agility and Transformation
SUMMARY: This text discusses the need for companies to develop a second operating system focused on strategic agility and rapid adaptation to stay competitive.
KEYWORDS: organizational agility, strategic transformation, operating system, rapid change, competitive advantage
---

THE BIG IDEA ACCELERATE!

Any company that has made it past the start-up stage

is optimized for efficiency rather than for strategic

agility—the ability to capitalize on opportunities

and dodge threats with speed and assurance. I could

give you 100 examples of companies that, like Bor-

ders and RIM, recognized the need for a big strategic

move but couldn’t pull themselves together to make

itand ended up sitting by as nimbler competitors ate

their lunch. The examples always play out the same

way: An organization that’s facing a real threat or

eyeing a new opportunity tries—and fails—to cram

through some sort of major transformation using

a change process that worked in the past. But the

old ways of setting and implementing strategy are

failing us.

We can’t keep up with the pace of change, let

alone get ahead of it. At the same time, the stakes—

financial, social, environmental, political—are ris-

ing. The hierarchical structures and organizational

processes we have used for decades to run and

improve our enterprises are no longer up to the

task of winning in this faster-moving world. In fact,

they can actually thwart attempts to compete ina

marketplace where discontinuities are more fre-

quent and innovators must always be ready to face

new problems. Companies used to reconsider their

strategies only rarely. Today any company that isn’t

rethinking its direction at least every few years—as

well as constantly adjusting to changing contexts—

and then quickly making significant operational

46 Harvard Business Review November 2012

changes is putting itself at risk, But, as any number

of business leaders can attest, the tension between

needing to stay ahead of increasingly fierce competi-

tion and needing to deliver this year’s results can be

overwhelming.

What to do, then?

We cannot ignore the daily demands of running

a company, which traditional hierarchies and mana-

gerial processes can still do very well. What they do

not do well is identify the most important hazards

and opportunities early enough, formulate creative

strategic initiatives nimbly enough, and implement

them fast enough.

The existing structures and processes that to-

gether form an organization’s operating system need

an additional element to address the challenges pro-

duced by mounting complexity and rapid change.

The solution is a second operating system, devoted

to the design and implementation of strategy, that

uses an agile, networkdike structure and a very differ-

ent set of processes. The new operating system con-

tinually assesses the business, the industry, and the

organization, and reacts with greater agility, speed,

and creativity than the existing one. It complements

rather than overburdens the traditional hierarchy,

thus freeing the latter to do what it’s optimized to do.

It actually makes enterprises easier to run and ac-

celerates strategic change. This is not an “either or”

idea. It’s “both and.” I’m proposing two systems that

operate in concert,

Idea in Brief

Although traditional hierarchies and

processes—which together form a

company’s “operating system”—are

optimized for day-to-day business,

they can’t handle the challenges of

mounting complexity and rapid change.

The solution is a second

operating system, devoted to

the design and implementa-

tion of strategy, that uses an

agile, networklike structure

and a very different set of

processes. The new operating

system continually assesses

the business, the industry, and change.

the organization, and reacts

with greater agility, speed, and

creativity than the existing one.

It complements rather than

overburdens the hierarchy, thus

freeing the latter to do what

it's optimized to do. It actually

makes enterprises easier to

run and accelerates strategic

HBR.ORG

The strategy system has its roots in familiar

structures, practices, and thinking. Many start-ups,

for example, are organized more as networks than

as hierarchies, because they need to be nimble and

creative in order to grab opportunities. Even in ma-

ture organizations, informal networks of change

agents frequently operate under the hierarchical ra-

dar. What I am describing also echoes much of the

most interesting management thinking of the past

few decades—from Michael Porter’s wake-up call

that organizations need to pay attention to strategy

much more explicitly and frequently, to Clayton

Christensen’s insights about how poorly tradition-

ally organized companies handle the technological

discontinuities inherent ina faster-moving world, to

recent work by the Nobel laureate Daniel Kahneman

(Thinking, Fast and Slow, 2011) describing the brain

as two coordinated systems, one more emotional

and one more rational,

The new strategy system also expands on the

eight-step method I first documented 15 years ago

(in Leading Change), while studying successful large-

scale change: establishing a sense of urgency, creat-

ing a guiding coalition, developing a change vision,

communicating the vision for buy-in, empowering

broad-based action, generating short-term wins,

never letting up, and incorporating changes into the

culture.

There are three main differences between those

eight steps and the eight “accelerators” on which the

strategy system runs: (1) The steps are often used in

rigid, finite, and sequential ways, in effecting or re-

sponding to episodic change, whereas the accelera-

tors are concurrent and always at work. (2) The steps

are usually driven by a small, powerful core group,

whereas the accelerators pull in as many people as

possible from throughout the organization to form

a “volunteer army.” (3) The steps are designed to

function within a traditional hierarchy, whereas

the accelerators require the flexibility and agility of

anetwork,

For a long time companies could invest all their

energy and resources in doing one new thing very

well: They might spend two years setting up a large

IT project that required many changes and then, af-

ter a long pause, spend five years developing a pto-

pensity for risk-taking in the product development

function. They could put the eight-step process to

work and then pack it away until it was needed again.

But that methodology has a hard time producing ex-

cellent results in a faster-changing world,

Today companies must constantly seek competi-

tive advantage without disrupting daily operations.

Sure, industries face varying levels of turmoil, but

what smart company isn’t worried about being dis-