SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 2.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Retail Business Performance Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of achieving results in a retail business by focusing on key performance indicators across different departments.
KEYWORDS: Brazin culture, retail business, key performance indicators, results-oriented, departmental responsibilities, productivity
---

we have planned and organised, motivated, given

ownership, delegated, inspired and carefully

followed up is just one thing. Results.

Results. Once again - it’s as simple and yet as

difficult as that. Each of us gets paid to produce

results and it’s so easy in a retail business to assume

that those results are just about dollars. Of course

make no mistake, all results do translate into bottom

line dollars ... but each department is responsible for

very different sets of Key Performance Indicators.

“We as the retail team are responsible for

producing sales. We are also responsible for

maximising the gross profit by minimising

markdowns and by minimising shrinkage.

We are responsible for minimising expenses

and for producing maximum productivity

from our team. That’s how we get results.

Do the above ... do the job we get paid to

do and we will have delivered a good result.

Page 60

BRAZIN MAGIC

Let’s look at other departments. Let’s start with

Buying - once again responsible for producing

income, but this time it is judged through gross

margins, supplier rebates and markdown control.

Like every other department, buying is responsible to

minimise expenses and produce maximum

productivity. Do the job we get paid to do and

once again, we have delivered a good result.

What about the Warehouse team? A department

not directly responsible for producing sales results,

but if we do not maintain our 24 hour turnaround

with stock deliveries in the Warehouse, sales in stores

are affected. If we do not maintain our 24 hour

turnaround with stock replenishment in the

Warehouse, again sales will be affected. If we do

not obsessively check every invoice, every

consignment note, every delivery, every bar code,

every price ticket, every stock transfer ... we won’t

stay on top of shrinkage and our income will be

affected. Like every other department, the

Warehouse is responsible to minimise expenses and

produce maximum productivity. Do the job we get

paid to do and once again, we have delivered a

good result.

Likewise with Stock Control. If we do not take charge

of re-ordering stock at the right time, we will have

lost sales. If we do not take note of buying trends as

they occur and be ready to increase or decrease

our stock holding within 24 hours, we will have lost

sales. If we are not on top of our stores’ needs with

Store Support, we will have lost sales. If we are not on

top of Customer Orders, we will have lost sales. If we

are not vigilant with The In Transit Report, we will

contribute to shrinkage and expenses blowouts.

Page 61

BRAZIN MAGIC

Equally with the Finance and Accounts Team. If we

are not on top of the income collection and

reconciliation, we will contribute to shrinkage. If we

are not on top of supplier payments, we will lose

valuable rebate allowances. If we do not obsessively

check each invoice against each statement, we will

contribute to shrinkage. If we do not provide the

reporting and accounting necessary to read results

and analyse the business, we will lose income. If we

do not understand the terms of each supplier deal,

we will lose margin. If we do not understand the

terms of each lease, we will be overcharged in

percentage rent, or promotional costs or outgoings

or in the savings agreed in a new store fitout. If we

do not pay our team correctly and on time, we will

lose morale, productivity and ultimately ... sales.

The list goes on. The IT department,

responsible for so much more than just

merely collecting the data at the POS and

ensuring it is converted into meaningful

reporting systems ... the loss of sales, the loss

of confidence, the loss of productivity, the

confusion, the frustration that occurs when

the computer breaks down in a store or the

Office is enormous.

Like every other department, IT is

responsible to minimise expenses and

produce maximum productivity. Do the job

we get paid to do and once again, we have

delivered a good result.

Page 62

BRAZIN MAGIC

What about the Property Department? If Property

does its job well, our sales are increased through a

better location, our occupancy costs are

substantially reduced, our percentage rent costs are

lowered, the cost of new fit-outs are minimised,

depreciation is less and maintenance costs on

existing stores is decreased. If Property does its job

well, the lease deal on the next store is better, we will

have found improvements to our fit-outs ... we may

even have made time savings that translate to a

store being able to trade during a rent free period.

Consider this though ... getting results

means making the tough decisions

asking the difficult questions that will cut to

the heart of the issue ... making people

accountable for their actions and teaching

them to take time out to think through

problem solving.

In that process, which truly is our culture

at work ... we stretch - sometimes

uncomfortably ... we grow - sometimes

without our permission ... and in the process,

we learn that each of our actions has

consequences ... it makes an impact on

every aspect of the business.

We don’t take mediocrity lying down. We achieve

results through an absolute commitment to discipline

and nowhere is that more evident than in the fact

that all the cheques are still signed by the Managing

Director. Most businesses would call = that

unnecessary ... most businesses that is, who aren’t

achieving anywhere close to our profit levels.

Page 63

BRAZIN MAGIC

It’s About making decisions ... making commitments

and sticking to them. As a public company, we are

responsible to so many shareholders now. We are

also responsible to thousands of stakeholders, not

the least of those who are our team members, who

so willingly trust us to keep our commitments ...

deliver on the results we have promised ... and who

themselves provide the best example by always