SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of a strong retail team in supporting the buying team and suppliers to drive successful product promotions and build preferred supplier relationships.
KEYWORDS: Brazin culture, retail team, product promotion, preferred supplier, teamwork, customer satisfaction
---

Where it breaks down though, is when the retail

team don't back up the job the buying team and

the supplier has done. Posters, signage, special

badges, exciting windows are not enough - if the

retail team don’t make it successful, it won’t be

successful. This is where the culture makes us so

magnificent ... with everyone focused on talking up

the product, selling it, filling it up, monitoring their

results three times a day, getting hyped and excited

- we can't lose.

The long term ramifications are critical for us

as a business. If we roll this one example

from one product up into one brand, we

then have a Preferred Supplier.

Page 32

BRAZIN MAGIC

We buy the Preferred Supplier’s product first, we give

their stock the highest priority in our stores, which of

course then provides both them and us with greater

volume and more profitability.

If the culture slips, is diluted in any way, then

the team doesn’t see that promotions are

important and acts accordingly ... and we

have killed our chances to create the next

Preferred Supplier!

Who wouldn’t want to be a Preferred Supplier to

Brazin? The force of our team is a force that can far

outweigh even the most rigorous campaign of prime

time television advertising - but it is at its maximum

when the culture is strong in all our stores ... and

most importantly, when the culture is being lived and

breathed by each of us in our senior roles.

That is what providing truly awesome customer

satisfaction is about - recognising that the people

we sit across from at our meeting tables are really on

the same side. That’s why we don’t keep people

waiting for meetings, that’s why we don’t ever

accept gifts from suppliers, that’s why we build

strong relationships and that’s why we are always

110% professional - who knows what great ideas will

be created from a new supplier that just walked in?

Each of us can win - it’s about

understanding how we can work together to

achieve maximum results, where the

synergy lifts our collective energy and

transports it to new levels of innovation,

success and superior customer satisfaction.

Page 33

BRAZIN MAGIC

Chapter Three ...

TEAMWORK

“You can buy someone’s time,

you can buy someone’s physical

presence at a given place; you

can even buy a measured

number of skilled motions per

hour or per day.

But you cannot buy enthusiasm,

you cannot buy initiative, you

cannot buy loyalty, you cannot

buy devotion of hearts, minds

and souls. You have to earn

those things.”

Clarence Francis

Page 34

BRAZIN MAGIC

Teamwork ...

“Runners will become coaches who will train

others to break the records they set.”

Each of us holds in our mind’s eye a mental picture

of a runner ... a superb finely-tuned athlete,

graceful, disciplined, passionate, focused. Now put

a team of runners in there, each one poised to take

the baton and run as if their very life depended

upon it. Pass the baton carefully, precious moments

are wasted if it were to be dropped ... turn and join

your other team mates to cheer on the last runner ...

hooray, it’s a victory ... race over to share in the

success together and celebrate the hard work,

which by the way now seems all worthwhile! You’d

do it again over and over for the sensation of being

a winner!

That in a nutshell, sums up our culture and

the meaning of that very precious word

team. It’s not about me as the individual, it’s

about we, the team ... it’s not about they or

them ... it’s about us - remember those

words well, use them in every conversation,

in every memo, in every email - for they

provide unification, a shared sense of

involvement, a reminder of us as winners.

| and they ... simple yet powerful words that have

the capacity to destroy our culture in a single

sentence - with a single thought. These words have

no place in Brazin for quite simply, they are about

ego and lack of ownership - both quite disparate

with the meaning of teamwork.

Page 35

BRAZIN MAGIC

Runners will become coaches. That is the essence of

Brazin. Successful people who have achieved go on

to helping others achieve. Leaders are builders and

our culture recognises and rewards those Managers

who have been able to bring on other Managers,

regardless of their level. They are the true winners,

for they have demonstrated the ability to move

behind, across to the side ... to let their team take

credit, to feel the exhilaration of victory.

Brazin was built on succession - team

members bringing on other team members

who in turn took us all, victorious, to the next

level. We doubled our size every year.

Store after store, area after area, state after

state, opportunity after opportunity ... and

the openings are still there for those who

demonstrate that they have what it takes to

be a winner, to go onto our Gifted and

Talented List.

We take our Gifted and Talented Lists

seriously. If you are not bringing on your

team, if you are not devoting time to helping

them become leaders ... then you are not

doing your job.

There is no point learning if you are not willing to pass

on your knowledge. Without knowledge, without

new ideas, we grow stale, we stagnate and

become difficult to motivate; which is why we have

a culture so focused on training and developing our

team to achieve their fullest potential.

Page 36

BRAZIN MAGIC

You are your team. Your team are a reflection of

you. Whichever way you put it, the meaning is the

same. Take a good look and if you don’t like what

you see, ask yourself what you have been changing

to make the changes necessary for the team to

grow, develop and become totally focused on living

our culture.