SOURCE: The Future of Retail article_Rotman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: Urban Outfitters uses non-traditional retail stores as a means of gathering customer insights to inform its business strategy, rather than solely focusing on sales targets.
KEYWORDS: retail strategy, customer insights, innovation, business strategy
---

bookseller Hennessey + Ingalls and New York vintage shops able insights for the company. The store, then, is a channel for

What Comes Around Goes Around and Generic Man act as consumers to shape and influence the organization’s strategic

magnets for people who don’t typically shop at Urban Outfitters. direction.

In a sense, it’s a store for tomorrow’s customer, rather than today’s

sales. The store is an investment in market reconnaissance, rather In closing

than solely a means toward hitting revenue targets and achieving The future success of retailers may depend greatly on their ability

profitability; its primary goal is gathering customer information to challenge what the industry has simply accepted as true: that a

from which Urban Outfitters can learn. brand experience is crafted by the design and messaging around

While recession has hit some retailers very hard, in the first a physical experience, and that a store’s primary purpose is to sell.

quarter of 2010, Urban Outfitters saw a 72 per cent increase in Increasingly, traditional retailers are openly questioning the role

profits. CEO Glen Senk credits creativity and experimentation. that the physical store plays in their business strategy – and opting

“We don’t go about revenue and profit as a goal. Rather, we focus to use these spaces to effect long-term change over short-term

our energies on the customer experience: innovating, making sales growth. We believe this is a great way to solidify long-term

beautiful products, really pushing the limits of our brand expres- customer loyalty and provide shoppers with that increasingly-

sion and constantly refining how we operate. Revenue per important window into an organization’s soul.

square foot is the result of that focus, rather than the starting

point or motivation.”

The threshold where companies interact with customers

can be a leading element in driving innovation, rather than be-

ing the last thing they consider. In August 2011, State Farm Dana Cho is a Partner at IDEO in Palo Alto,

opened its doors to a new retail venture called Next Door. In California. Beau Trincia is an architect and

environments designer at IDEO.

contrast to its other locations, Next Door’s purpose isn’t solely

to sell products. Instead, it offers personal financial coaching,

Rotman Magazine Winter 2012 /51

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.