SOURCE: The Big Idea Accelerate!.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Transformation and Innovation
SUMMARY: The text outlines a strategic vision to accelerate the company's growth, innovation, and decision-making, aiming to become the most admired sales organization and the best place to work.
KEYWORDS: business transformation, innovation, strategic vision, sales organization, workplace culture
---

least twice what it is today; we will have

developed a discipline around innovation;

and decision-making time will be cut in

half, from a month to two weeks. We will

be a proud, passionate group, still gaining

momentum to make us the most admired

sales organization and the best place to

work in the industry.” The statement was

perfectly rational, but there was also a lot

of heart in it.

The guiding coalition then took a first

pass at identifying specific initiatives. Its

members agreed on five, including attract-

ing and hiring outstanding people with

Asian experience, and making the product-

introduction process faster and more effi-

a typical hierarchy tends not to change from year to

year, the network can morph with ease. In the ab-

sence of bureaucratic layers, command-and-control

prohibitions, and Six Sigma processes, this type of

network permits a level of individualism, creativity,

and innovation that not even the least bureaucratic

hierarchy can provide. Populated with employees

from all across the organization and up and down its

tanks, the network liberates information from silos

and hierarchical layers and enables it to flow with far

greater freedom and accelerated speed.

The hierarchy differs from almost every other

hierarchy today in one very important way: All the

50 Harvard Business Review November 20712

junk ordinarily pasted on it for tackling big strategic

initiatives—work streams, tiger teams, strategy de-

partments—has been shifted over to the network,

That leaves the hierarchy less encumbered and able

to perform better and faster what it is designed for:

doing today’s job well, making incremental changes

to further improve efficiency, and handling the small

initiatives that help a company deal with predictable

adjustments such as routine IT upgrades.

The strategy network meshes with the hierarchy

as an equal. It is not a super task force that reports

to some level in the hierarchy. It is seamlessly con-

nected to and coordinated with the hierarchy in

cient. The vision and list of initiatives went

first to the executive committee, which

was generally enthusiastic but worried that

the GC might be taking on too much too

fast. The GC extended the timetable on

one of its initiatives and went to work.

The original urgency team’s methods

helped the GC take the vision and the

strategy to the entire field organization,

using training, communications tools, the

portal, and face-to-face conversations,

which proved to be particularly powerful.

The more team members talked to col-

leagues, the more excited people became.

| was at one lunch where a GC member

spoke, and as the group broke up, the man

next to me said, “For the first time ever, |

understand where we need to go, and how.

And it really makes sense!”

Six months in, the GC had five major

initiatives in place, each of which had from

one to six subinitiatives. The initiative to

hire excellent people in Asia, for example,

sprouted a subinitiative to bring new peo-

ple up to speed more quickly. The focus

was on eliminating barriers to accelerated

movement in the right direction.

The people involved talked, e-mailed,

and met as needed to get the work done.

In the main GC meetings, members

reported progress, shared information, so-

licited ideas, and asked for help (“Who has

experience with the Japanese market?”).

Senior managers helped to ensure that

lower-level employees got the informa-

tion they needed to make smart deci-

sions. Lower-level people added frontline

information that ordinarily wouldn’t have

made it up the hierarchy to the executive

committee.

The guiding coalition came up with a big,

visible win six months into the process: It

built a new, simplified IT tool at a remark-

ably low cost in a short period of time. (IT

had been a time-consuming trouble spot.)

First an initiative team interviewed users

to understand why the existing system was

failing; then it reached out to the volunteer

army for expertise. One e-mail request

for help, sent to 100 people, elicited 35

responses within four days. Salespeople

and their managers loved the end product.

Success with this single effort, observed in

the field organization and broadcast on the

portal, accelerated progress by removing a

big barrier and boosted the dual operating

system's credibility.

The company never let up. | have lost

count of how many initiatives it has com-

pleted over the past three years and how

many barriers have been removed. Many

mistakes occurred along the way, but the

system continues to improve, and version

2.0, now at the division level, is without a

doubt more sophisticated than version 1.0.

The biggest accomplishments so far

have been institutionatized in the hier-

archical organization and integrated in

daily operations. in cases where strate-

gic changes don’t fit some aspect of the

company culture, the relevant team looks

for ways to change the culture, To a large

extent this happens naturally if the new

approach produces better results; but

sometimes changes are so big that nurtur-

ing is needed.

Three years after Davidson began to

create a dual operating system, his field

organization, and increasingly the entire

division, are handling important issues in a

new way. No one on the executive commit-

tee is overwhelmed by being appointed to

help guide two or three strategic initiatives

at once. Despite all the change, com-

plaints about change fatigue in the core

business are few.

The results are dramatic. The system has

accelerated the creation of new partner-

ships, new ways of dealing with direct

customers, a faster product-introduction

process, shorter response times on

complaints, superior data for the product

development group on shifting customer

needs, and faster growth in Asia—it was up

by more than 60% in 2011, compared with

25% three years ago. And the division has

started to win back market share, which

the financial community has rewarded

with a §5% increase in the company’s

market cap.

These are still early days. If the dual op-

erating system is to achieve its true poten-

tial, it must spread to the entire enterprise.