SOURCE: The Big Idea Accelerate!.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Organizational Transformation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of institutionalizing strategic changes in an organization's culture to create a volunteer army that can drive the business forward.
KEYWORDS: volunteer army, strategic change, organizational culture, daily operations, organizational transformation
---

people going. Ifit is weak to begin with, or neglected,

the volunteer army’s determination will flag, and

the temptation to slow down or stop will become ir-

resistible. The volunteers will start focusing on their

work in the hierarchy, and the hierarchy will domi-

nate once more.

8. Institutionalize strategic changes in the

culture. No strategic initiative, big or small, is com-

plete until it has been incorporated into day-to-day

activities. A new direction or method must sink into

the very culture of the enterprise—and it will dosoif

the initiative produces visible results and sends your

organization into a strategically better future.

The Volunteer Army

The members of the volunteer army also help make

the daily business of the organization hum; they’re

not a separate group of consultants, new hires, or

task force appointees. They have organizational

56 Harvard Business Review November 2012

maintain an efficient status quo, networks demand

leadership from every individual within them.

People who have never seen this sort of dual

operating system work often worry, quite logically,

that a bunch of enthusiastic volunteers might cre-

ate more problems than they solve—by, for example,

running off and making not very thoughtful deci-

sions and disrupting daily operations. Here is where

the very specific details built into the network and

the accelerators come into play. This second system

not only creates the army but guides the volunteers

with a structure and processes that create a powerful,

smart, and increasingly needed strategic force.

In organizations where the volunteer army has

really taken hold, individuals have told me that the

rewards are tremendous—though rarely monetary.

They talk about the fulfillment they get from pursu-

ing a mission they believe in. They appreciate the

chance to collaborate with a broader array of peo-

ple than they ever could have before. A number of

them say that their strategy work led to increased

visibility across the organization and to bigger jobs

in the hierarchy. And their managers appreciate how

the volunteers develop professionally. In June 2012

i got this e-mail message from a client in Europe:

“T can’t believe how quickly this second operating

system gives growth to real talents within the or-

ganization. Once people feel ‘Yes, I can do it!’ they

also start faster growth in their regular jobs in the

How a midsize restaurant group is earning a bigger piece of the pie.

On a smarter planet, midsize businesses need analytics to better serve their customers, operate more

efficiently and foster growth. Papa Gino’s Inc., the Boston-based pizza and sandwich chain with about 150

corporate employees, was sitting on a gold mine of untapped sales, marketing and operational data. However,

they needed a better way to leverage all this powerful data to make better decisions for their company. Working

with IBM® anc Business Partner QueBIT, they deployed a business analytics solution based on IBM Cognos®

software that quickly transformed their data into actionable business insights. Analytics helped them discover that

rewarcl members visit their restaurants 35% more frequently and spend 50% more on online transactions. With

new insights into the impact of their loyalty program, they can develop offers based on purchase patterns

to increase the size of orders and purchase frequency. To see how IBM and our Business Partners can help your

midsize business work smarter, visit ibm.com/engines/pizza. Let's build a smarter planet.

Midsize businesses cre the engines of ct Smarter Plamet.

IBM, the ISM logo, ibmcom, Cagnioz, Smarter Planat and the planst ican are tredsmarks of International Busings:

‘be trademarts of [EM or ather companies. A curtent Mist of IBM trademark: ls oa the Web at wuvvelbt

183 Comp, registered in many,

aVcopytradashtint © Internation

Other product and service names might

Corpotation 2012. All rights rexerved.

THE BiG IDEA ACCELERATE!

‘ernest TTT TTT reSSRTuWUGcissites sees

HBR.ORG

hierarchy, which helps make today’s operations

more effective”

Building Momentum

Over the past three years I’ve aided eight organiza-

tions, private and public, in building dual operating

systems, and the challenges have been fairly predict-

able. One is how to ensure that the two parts work

together and don’t drift apart. Here it is essential that

the GC and the executive committee maintain close

communication. Another is how to build momen-

tum: Most important is to communicate wins from

the very start. Probably the biggest challenge is how

to make people who are accustomed to a control-

oriented hierarchy believe that a dual system is even

possible, Again, this is why a rationaland compelling

sense of urgency around a big strategic opportunity

isso important. Once it has been sparked, mobilizing

the GCand putting the remaining accelerators in mo-

tion happens almost organically.

Adual operating system doesn’t start fully formed

and doesn’t require a sweeping overhaul of the orga-

nization. It grows over time, accelerates action over

time, and takes on a life of its own that seems to dif-

fer from company to company in the details. It can

start with small steps. Version 1.0 of a strategy net-

work may arise in only one part of an enterprise. Af-

ter it becomes a powerful accelerating force there, it

can expand throughout the organization. Version 1.0

may play little or no role in strategy formulation but

be involved, rather, in implementation. It may feel at

first more like a big employee-engagement exercise

that does, indeed, produce a much bigger payoff for

the same size payroll. But the network and the ac-

celerators evolve, and momentum comes faster than

you might expect.

A Summary and a Prediction

Because a dual operating system evolves, it doesn’t

jolt the organization the way sudden dramatic

change does. It doesn’t require the organization to

build something gigantic and then flick a switch

to get it going. Think of it as a vast, purposeful ex-

pansion in scale, scope, and power of the smaller,

informal networks that accomplish tasks faster and

cheaper than hierarchies can.

The system offers a solution to problems we have

known about for some time. People have been writ-