SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 2.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Professional Development
SUMMARY: This text emphasizes the importance of continuous learning, integrity, and a positive attitude for professional growth and success within the company.
KEYWORDS: professional development, learning culture, integrity, positive attitude, company values
---

even when under pressure. A professional thinks

about the role they carry out ... the position they

hold ... the people they influence ... the results they

must achieve ... the way in which they can increase

their value to the company.

Page 55

BRAZIN MAGIC

“Don’t wish your job were easier, wish that

you were better.” Buckminster Fuller

Be a professional - look for the ways in which you

can make yourself better. It starts with a positive

attitude - a willingness to do what others are not

prepared to do. It starts with a willingness to

develop your knowledge and your skills - and along

the way, you will have also developed your attitude.

If each of us made a commitment to

improve our skills, knowledge and attitudes

by 10% over the next year ... we would find

some extraordinary results. We would find

that some people had increased their

abilities by 20% ... we would find that some

people had increased their abilities by 1%,

others by 5%. Whichever we way we look at

it, we would have all been winners. Brazin

would have won, the culture would have

won and we as executives would have won.

That’s why ours is a culture of learning. We don’t

pay for university education - instead we pay for

Company Conferences, that are tailored to the

needs of the business and to the needs of our

people. As in all things, we provide the resources

and you provide the willingness to get on, do the job

needed and achieve.

Encourage in your team an attitude of learning.

Encourage in them a desire to help the other. Use

the Manuals, use the Conferences, use your integrity

and sense of self worth to make yourself better

today than you were yesterday.

Page 56

BRAZIN MAGIC

Absolute integrity is important to our culture.

We depend on all our team to always do the

right thing, but very often the truest measure

of our own success is not what happens

while we are there, supervising, motivating,

encouraging, correcting .... but what

happens when we are not there.

We should be breeding integrity into our feam. Ours

is a business where it is possible to cheat and to steal

... we need to be on the lookout for that. Thankfully,

ours is a business too, where the majority of people

are honest. We depend on these people to help us

identify the dishonest ones. We depend on the

confidentiality line that Brett listens to daily to help us

uncover situations that aren't right.

And we depend on you as a Senior Executive to

always lead from the front in this regard ... to

recognise that company property is company

property and belongs at work, no matter whether it

is money, equipment, stock, stationery or time.

Likewise, a team member's property is his or her own

- whether it be money or equipment or books or

clothes and our culture is also to leave it with them.

We don’t borrow for one very good reason - that our

team are not in the position to be able to say no.

Instead, they assume that we represent the culture

and the entire company and as a result, their view of

us as a business becomes spoiled. Eventually they

leave, disheartened that once again, what was

promised didn‘t materialise. It’s hard to see integrity

at work, but it’s easy to see team members resentful

because our attitudes didn’t reflect our culture.

Page 57

BRAZIN MAGIC

A poor Manager blames the team - a good Leader

blames themselves! Look for the areas we can

improve, because to our team we are the

Company. Brett has built an enormously successful,

strong company - it is our job to build on that again

and take our people to even greater heights!

Our culfure was built on identifying positive

attitudes and if we had made a recruitment

mistake - we quickly rectified it. We didn’t

make excuses ... we didn’t put up with poor

performance because “there was no-one

else” - we simply went out and found the

right person. And ... when we said good-

bye, we didn’t destroy that person’s ego!

Always consider your tone of voice and the

manner in which you carry out any task.

Negative attitudes are an anathema to our culture.

They have the power to undo all the good work that

has gone before. They have the power to alienate

customers and lose us sales. They have the power to

water down the results of a promotion or a

catalogue or an in store display. Negative attitudes

have the power to make us doubt ourselves, our

ability and our culture. They creep in and in an

insidious way, attack everything we stand for.

Our culture is built around people achieving their

besf. Its  positiveness inspires, encourages

excellence, reinforces the power of passion and

potential. You are here because you do have the

right attitude, because the culture is your passion.

Use it to show others their passion and their potential

for success.

Page 58

BRAZIN MAGIC

Chapter Five ...

RESULTS

“Excellence at Brazin means

doing the common, everyday

things in an uncommon,

spectacular way.”

Brett Blundy

Page 59

BRAZIN MAGIC

Results ...

“The mind will not reach toward

achievement uniil it has clear objectives. It

is then that the switch is turned on, the

current begins to flow and the power to

accomplish becomes a reality.”

What counts for Brett, at the very end, after all the

good intentions have been actioned, after all the

communication has been given and received, after

all the expectations have been highlighted ... after

we have planned and organised, motivated, given

ownership, delegated, inspired and carefully

followed up is just one thing. Results.

Results. Once again - it’s as simple and yet as

difficult as that. Each of us gets paid to produce

results and it’s so easy in a retail business to assume