SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Customer Satisfaction
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of continuous improvement, avoiding excuses, and delivering exceptional customer satisfaction as the key to success in the retail business.
KEYWORDS: Brazin culture, continuous improvement, customer satisfaction, results-driven, attention to detail, outcomes-focused
---

continuous improvement - how can | do better?

Page 15

BRAZIN MAGIC

Pay attention to who is not delivering. Look

at why things went wrong. Understand that it

is never the economy, or the stock, or

another company’s advertising, or the

weather, or a quiet period in the Centre ...

those are excuses and excuses are banned

in Brazin!

Excuses hide the truth and prevent growth -

growth of us as individuals and growth of us

as a business.

Being results driven is tough! It means being all over

the business - all the time, all over your department,

all over your team ... understanding the detail, being

a hands-on Manager; for success is always the sum

of small things done well.

Jan Carlzon summed it up beautifully in his

book, Moments of Truth when he said ...

“We do not seek to be 1000% better at any

one thing, rather - we seek to be 1% better

at 1000 things.”

In essence, that is Brazin - that is the culture and that

is Brett’s expectation of us. We seek excellence ... a

raising of the bar in all we do.

Our motto is to crank it up ... and be obsessed with

over delivering. We do care ... passionately ...

about customers and our team. We are professional

at all times, we take ownership, we look to ourselves

when things go wrong and we never, ever allow

inefficiencies and a lack of attention to detail to get

on top of us - for we are outcomes driven and

proudly results focused in everything that we do!

Page 16

BRAZIN MAGIC

Sanity

Mission Statement:

“We, the team, by delivering

awesome customer satisfaction

and by having the best range

within a dynamic environment,

will dominate

Entertainment retail.”

Bras’n Things

Mission Statement:

“To be the first choice,

intimate apparel retailer,

by delivering unsurpassed

customer satisfaction as a result

of developing our team

to their fullest potential.”

Page 17

BRAZIN MAGIC

Chapter Two ...

SATISFACTION,

NOT JUST SERVICE

“No person was ever

honoured for what he

received. Honour has been

the reward for what he gave.”

Calvin Coolidge

Page 18

BRAZIN MAGIC

Satisfaction, not just service ...

Every customer, every time ... the customer that

complains is our best friend ... always look at things

from the customer’s perspective as they are our

ultimate boss. Familiar phrases that roll easily off our

tongues! At Brazin, Brett inverted the Organisational

Chart to put customers at the top long before it

became fashionable to do so. We've been talking

about delivering customer satisfaction - not just

customer service, since 1995.

And yet, our commitment to our customers is

stronger than ever. We truly do believe that the only

competitive advantage in our business is the level of

satisfaction that we offer and it is a commitment to

extraordinary service that builds a strong brand.

Retail is a simple business. We buy stock,

we sell stock and in between we create a

satisfied customer and a profit. Notice that

the satisfied customer comes before profit -

you have to give it out before you can get it

back! The reward we as a company get

from a satisfied customer is profit.

It’s a point we drive home again and again.

Customers are not interruptions to our work, they are

the reason we are here. If we stop talking about

customers ... if we stop being obsessed with

delivering awesome customer satisfaction ... if we

condone, even tacitly by not commenting on it, the

slightest drop in these standards - our team will foo.

Make customers the focus of the day for every store,

for every team and sales cannot help but follow!

Page 19

BRAZIN MAGIC

Too many times we are guilty of seeing Customers

just as today’s sale, rather than looking at the long

term net worth of the customer.

Realise that every customer in a Bras’n

Things store is potentially worth $35,000 to us

... realise that every customer in a Sanity or

In2 store is worth $30,000 to us over the long

term.

Attitudes quickly change’ with _ this

perspective! We recognise that we are in

business for the long term and that what we

do today drives our business for the future.

It’s the little things that make us successful, but

likewise it’s the little things that often get missed, that

go unnoticed. We're busy, we say - we’ll get on to

that tomorrow. Soon after, standards drop as we

have not enforced them and our customers suffer.

It’s up to each and every one of us to know what is

and is not acceptable in our stores. It’s up to us as

the Senior Team to drive the culture and to set the

pace we need and to drive the results we look for

from awesome customer satisfaction.

However, understand that it is not your role

to be the first to offer service. That would be

the easy way, but what happens when you

leave? Instead, when you get to the store,

stay outside and take a look ... what is

happening with our customers? Are we

aware of them? Is our service the best it

could be? See what a customer sees - that’s

being a true retail leader!

Page 20

BRAZIN MAGIC

Likewise, when you are in stores, stand back and

watch the team in action. You will be more valuable

when you can make an objective assessment that

will help a team member convert more customers to

sales, You'll be more valuable when you can help a

team member close the sale more convincingly.

You'll be more valuable when you can see where

the team are losing sales and when you can offer

concrete help that will make a difference to the way

they do things long after your visit.

Of course there are times when you are

needed to dive on in and help, but make

those times count!