SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Corporate Culture
SUMMARY: The text discusses the unique and powerful corporate culture of Brazin, a rapidly growing Australian retail company, which is seen as the key to its remarkable success.
KEYWORDS: corporate culture, Brazin, growth, retail industry
---

Luke Skywalker: “I don’t believe it!”

Yoda: “That is why you fail.”

THE

BRAZIN

CULTURE

A HANDBOOK FOR ALL SENIOR EXECUTIVES —

WE ARE THE CULTURE, THE BRAZIN MAGIC...

AND WE NEED TO LOVE, LIVE IT AND COMMIT TO

FOSTERING IT IN EVERYTHING WE DO

BRAZIN MAGIC

Table of Contents ...

Introduction

Our ally is the culture

Satisfaction, not just service

Teamwork

Aititude

Results

Be proactive

Change your mind set

There is no try

Over delivery

Leadership - we are the message

33

48

58

65

71

77

82

86

Page 2

BRAZIN MAGIC

PROLOGUE ...

AN INTRODUCTION

Luke “| don’t believe it!”

Skywalker:

Yoda: “That ... is why you fail.”

BRAZIN MAGIC

An Introduction ...

Rewind the clock back just a few short years. It is

1990 and it is assumed, indeed widely accepted,

that there is no space left for another national retail

chain .... let alone two! The dominant players in the

market are Brashes, Sportsgirl, Katies and Sussan.

Bras‘n Things has just opened its 24" store and Brett

Blundy, one of the youngest players in the retail

industry, has just bought back his six Jetts Music

stores. They will be renamed Delta Music and in just

over two years, will become known as Sanity Music

..«. A dominant force which will be forever linked with

the youth music market.

Fast forward - it is now 2001 and the publicly listed

Brazin Group, which comprises 125 Bras’n Things

stores, 300 Sanity and In2 stores, together with Aztec

Rose, the leading manufacturer of young women’s

lifestyle fashion, is now the fifth largest public retailer

in Australia. In just ten amazing years, Brazin has

achieved unbelievable success. With a doubling

of the business each year, it has not only re-written

the record books about how long growth should

take but has turned the industry upside down with

the profit results it has achieved!

Along the way, there has been impressive

industry, commerce and public recognition

of our success but few understand the key to

it ... the force behind the magic that is truly,

uniquely Brazin.

Page 4

BRAZIN MAGIC

This book is your invitation to experience the

magic, to understand the powerful force that

is our culture and most important of all - to

believe it ... to live it, breathe it and breed it.

For you are the key to our future success -

by reading this book, you have already

demonstrated that you have what it takes to

be a great leader. By committing its lessons

to memory and through your own

commitment to turn these words _ into

actions, you keep the Brazin culture alive.

You see, Brazin is one of the most exciting and

dynamic companies in the world. It is that way, not

only because we have one of the world’s greatest

visionaries and business leaders as our Founder and

Chairman, but because we have been able to

attract exciting, wonderful people to work with us.

Yes, with us ... not for us - and that is possibly the

most important lesson to learn in our culture. At

Brazin, we are all part of the one team - each of us

has different roles to play, each of us has varying

levels of responsibility ... but we are each

colleagues, members of the one team and vitally

dependent on one another to carry out our

responsibilities. There is no superiority, no privileges,

no place for ego - these things simply aren’t

congruent with the true meaning of a team! We

must be prepared to do exactly the same thing that

we ask our stores and our people to do.

Page 5

BRAZIN MAGIC

At Brazin, the customer comes first. Not in the way

you hear other retailers talk about service ... but

sincerely, honestly - a fact. The customer to us is the

lifeblood of our business, the reason we are in

business and we will do anything it takes to make

that customer happy.

That’s another reason for our success. We

recognised years ago that it wasn’t just our

store teams that served customers, every

single person who worked with us at Brazin

had customers - and those customers

depended upon each team member to do

the right thing ... to put service first, to put the

needs of those customers ahead of any

other priorities.

As our service levels increased, so did our

desire for continuous improvement and thus,

customer satisfaction was born. It no longer

was enough for us to simply provide service,

we wanted to ensure that our customer was

completely and genuinely satisfied with the

attention they had received from Brazin.

Each of you has customers. As a Senior Manager,

the majority of customers will be your own team,

other departments and external relationships. You

are always on show ... you are a role model and an

ambassador for Brazin. Make every conversation

count. Add value wherever you can - whenever

you can... live the culture daily - teach the culture

daily and remember, the magic is in you!

Page 6

BRAZIN MAGIC

Chapter One ...

FOR OUR ALLY

IS THE CULTURE

Yoda: “For my ally is the force .. and

a powerful force it is.

Life creates it ... makes it

grow ... its energy surrounds

us and binds us.

You must feel the force

around you.”

Page 7

BRAZIN MAGIC

For our ally is the culture ...

All companies have a culture. Few choose

to do as much with and through their culture

as Brazin.

Yes, every Company does have a culture - a set of

values that are important to its success, a way of

operating that always makes the difference

between effective and mediocre performance.

Every person, regardless of their position models a

certain set of behaviours and values, yet rarely are

we called to account for our attitudes, let alone

define these behaviours.

At Brazin, we have defined these standards and we

ask each of our team to make the choice to model