SOURCE: The Big Idea Accelerate!.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Strategic Organizational Change
SUMMARY: The text discusses the limitations of hierarchies and conventional change management, and proposes a dual operating system to drive strategic change in a fast-changing world.
KEYWORDS: strategic change, organizational agility, dual operating system, hierarchical limitations, exponential change
---

But that methodology has a hard time producing ex-

cellent results in a faster-changing world,

Today companies must constantly seek competi-

tive advantage without disrupting daily operations.

Sure, industries face varying levels of turmoil, but

what smart company isn’t worried about being dis-

intermediated, out-Googled, or otherwise made

irrelevant—and how many are successfully doing

something about it? In fact, the whole notion of

“strategy” —a word that is now used loosely to cover

sporadic planning around what businesses to be in

and important policies concerning how to compete

in those businesses—has to evolve. Strategy should

be viewed as a dynamic force that constantly seeks

opportunities, identifies initiatives that will capital-

ize on them, and completes those initiatives swiftly

and efficiently. I think of that force as an ongoing

process of “searching, doing, learning, and modify-

ing,” and of the eight accelerators as the activities

that inform strategy and bring it to life. The network

and the accelerators can serve as a continuous and

holistic strategic change function—one that ac-

celerates momentum and agility because it never

stops. They impart a kind of strategic “fitness”:

The more the organization exercises its strategy

skills, the more adept it becomes at dealing with a

hypercompetitive environment. The network and

the hierarchy, functioning as a dual operating sys-

tem, can produce more wealth, better products and

November 2012 Harvard Business Review 47

THE BiG IDEA ACCELERATE!

Two Structures,

One Organization

services, and a more exciting place to work in an era

of exponential change.

The Limits of Hierarchy and

Conventional Change Management

Hierarchies are useful. They let us sort work into de-

partments, product divisions, regions, and the like

with expertise, time-tested procedures, and clear

reporting relationships and accountability so that

we can do what we know how to do with efficiency,

predictability, and effectiveness. Hierarchies are di-

rected by familiar managerial processes for planning,

budgeting, defining jobs, hiring and firing, and mea-

suring results,

We have learned how to improve our hierarchy-

based businesses, We launch initiatives to take on

new tasks and improve performance on old ones. We

have learned how to identify new problems, find and

analyze data in a dynamic marketplace, build busi-

ness cases for change, and gain approval. We have

learned to execute by adding task forces, tiger teams,

project-management and change-management de-

partments, executive sponsors for new initiatives,

and associated measurement and incentive schemes.

We can do this while taking care of the day-to-day

work of the organization because this change meth-

odology is easily accommodated by the hierarchical

structure and basic managerial processes. It works

especially well if we make the structure less bureau-

cratic, with fewer layers and fewer questionable

tules, and give more discretion to people who sit

lower in the hierarchy. This methodology can deal

with both tactical and strategic issues in a changing

world—but only up toa point.

The old methodology simply can’t handle rapid

change. Hierarchies and standard managerial pro-

cesses, even. when minimally bureaucratic, are in-

herently risk-averse and resistant to change. Part of

the problem is political: Managers are loath to take

chances without permission from superiors. Part of

the problem is cultural: People cling to their habits

and fear loss of power and stature—two essential ele-

ments of hierarchies. And part of the problem is that

all hierarchies, with their specialized units, rules,

and optimized processes, crave stability and default

to doing what they already know how to do. (These

characteristics are even more pronounced when

you pile one hierarchy on top of another to create a

matrixed organization.)

Moreover, strategy implementation methodolo-

gies, hung on the hierarchical spine, are not up to

48 Harvard Business Review November 2012

Traditional hierarchies and processes,

which together form an organization’s

“operating system,” do a great job of

handling the operational needs of most

companies, but they are too rigid to

adjust to the quick shifts in today’s

marketplace. The most agile, innovative

companies add a second operating

system, built on a fluid, networklike

structure, to continually formulate

and implement strategy. The second

operating system runs on its own

processes (see “The Eight Accelerators,”

page 52) and is staffed by volunteers

from throughout the company.

the challenge of managing speedy transformation.

Change management typically relies on tools~such

as diagnostic assessments and analyses, communi-

cations techniques, and training modules—that can

be invaluable in helping with episodic problems for

which there are relatively straightforward solutions,

such as implementing a well-tested financial report-

ing system. These approaches are effective when

it is clear that you need to move from point A toa

well-defined point B; the distance between the two

is not galactic; and pushback from employees will

not prove to be herculean. Change-management

processes supplement the system we know. They

can slide easily into a project-management organi-

zation. They can be made stronger or faster by add-

ing more resources, more-sophisticated versions of

the same old methods, or smarter people to drive

the process—but again, only up toa point. After that

point, using this approach to launch strategic initia-

tives that ask an organization to absorb more change

faster can create confusion, resistance, fatigue, and

higher costs.

Complementary Systems

Mounting complexity and rapid change create stra-

tegic challenges that even a souped-up hierarchy

can’t handle. That’s why the dual operating system—

a management-driven hierarchy working in concert

with a strategy network—works so remarkably well.

HIERARCHY

GUIDING

COALITION

HBR.ORG

INITIATIVE

At the heart of the dual operating system are five

principles:

+ Many change agents, not just the usual few

appointees. To move faster and further, you need

to pull more people than ever before into the strate-

gic change game, but in a way that is economically

realistic. That means not large numbers of full-time

or even part-time appointments but volunteers, And

10% of the managerial and employee population is

both plenty and possible.

-Awant-to and a get-to—not just a have-to—

mind-set. You cannot mobilize voluntary energy

and brainpower unless people want to be change