SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 2.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Corporate Culture and Teamwork
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of attitude, teamwork, and effective management in Brazin's corporate culture, emphasizing the need for excellence, growth, and a positive mindset.
KEYWORDS: corporate culture, teamwork, attitude, excellence, growth
---

and that too, is part of our culture. Not so much

planning that it actually paralyses you from taking

action and not so much follow up that you drive

your team insane ... but once again it’s your

management skills that dictate whether you are all

over the business or whether It is all over you!

Improve your team and it then follows as the

night the day, that you will automatically

improve your results.

Page 47

BRAZIN MAGIC

Golda Meir told her people that “you cannot shake

hands with a clenched fist.” We have spoken about

managing our team, but we also need to be aware

that we as Senior Managers belong to another

team. The behaviours that we ask of our team must

be the behaviours that we model in our own team,

be it at peer level; in a department; a company or

working with our suppliers.

It is unacceptable in our culture to play

politics ... to speak ill of anyone. If there is

something that is bothering you, take if to

the person that can best fix it ... and that

means either the person bothering you or

the person who has the seniority to fix it!

Work if out together, that’s why we have

common goals, shared visions and a strong

culture. When you have resolved conflict

with another, you will be in a better place to

teach others how to do the same thing.

Teamwork is an essential part of our culture ... we

have achieved enormous success as a result of

hundreds of fantastic people all willing to go above

and beyond the call of duty to achieve what most

said could not be done - to break all records.

Your team must become your family. You must love

them, be willing to grow them, mould them, develop

them, motivate them, provide them with feedback

and encourage them as they move into the coach

position. For you are their role model and our culture

not only asks that you be outstanding, but gives you

the tools to live excellence on a daily basis.

Page 48

BRAZIN MAGIC

Chapter Four ...

ATTITUDE

“Never be too big to ask

questions.

Never know too much to learn.”

Og Mandino

“99% right is 100% wrong. Realise

that near enough will never be

good enough for Brazin”

Brett Blundy

Page 49

BRAZIN MAGIC

Attitude ...

“We are then, what we repeatedly do. Excellence

therefore, is a habit.” Aristotle

Attitude is everything fo us at Brazin. It’s

about making the choice ... it’s about losing

those aspects of ourselves that are ordinary

.. it's about being extraordinary when no-

one is looking ... it’s about being true to the

highest vision you hold of yourself ... and it’s

about growth, sharing and a positive culture.

You can pick lemons off the trees, but you have to

dig for diamonds as the saying goes. That’s possibly

the hardest lesson to learn, that out of 100 people

we've interviewed - we may choose only 5 because

our culture demands that we be exceptionally

selective on attitude.

Demands - yes, it is a strong word to use, but

think about the consequences!

I's far more demanding to clear up the

mess that a person with a bad or negative

attitudes has left. It’s far more demanding

to worry about what is going on behind your

back because you can’t trust those in your

department or stores. Ii’s far more

demanding to worry about how you will

improve those results that negative attitudes

have produced. It’s far more demanding

when you realise that a poor work attitude

from some team members have caused you

fo overspend your productivity budgets

again this week.

Page 50

BRAZIN MAGIC

A positive attitude is the one request Brett makes of

all our team when they join us, no matter how senior

they are or how inexperienced. A positive person

who smiles, who is enthusiastic, who looks for the

good in everything adds so much more to our

business than the one who has a difficult personality.

The first few seconds give the clue ... how are you,

we ask beaming. Not too bad ... the negative

person says ... Could be better ... thank goodness

it’s the end of the day ... I’ve had the worse day of

my life ... and so the avalanche continues! How

does it make us feel? All of a sudden, a little bit of

sunshine has been taken out of our day. Things that

were going well suddenly seem harder to achieve.

In a nutshell, we ban those phrases. Instead

we say in response to the greeting

fantastic ... terrific ... great ... super!

How can you say that in a tone that doesn’t

spill over with excitement ... how can you

say that without a smile in your voice ... how

can you say that without standing a fraction

taller ... how can you say that without

making a difference to some-one else’s day

... how can you say that without meaning it?

The short answer is, you can’t.

It’s a choice. Like all choices, it can be tough! Like

all choices our attitude affects our team, our work,

our own levels of enthusiasm, our willingness to take

the responsibility and it affects our desire to be

better today than we were yesterday!

Page 51

BRAZIN MAGIC

Each of us has problems ... everyone has a life

outside work that doesn't always run as smoothly as

we would like. We ask that you deposit these

(mentally) in a box by the front door, wipe your feet

on the positive attitude mat and come and join us.

Your problems will be there again at the end of the

day, but they won't have been a burden to you

during the day. Neither will they have been a

burden to anyone else.

Your team take their lead from you. If you

are positive and upbeat - so will they be.