SOURCE: The Three Os_Great Teams_2009.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Team Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses various strategies and principles for building and maintaining great teams, including the importance of attitude over experience, succession planning, and continuous improvement.
KEYWORDS: team building, employee management, leadership, continuous improvement, succession planning
---

issues or miss your budget and all that will be harder on you then dismissing them.

Have fun.

Understand that different areas need different skills, ways to manage etc. (warehouse vs. stores)

Rock up with a drink, food and ready to help when people are going that extra step. They will love you for it.

Have the right training in place and very clear guide lines. Don’t set anyone up to fail.

You have always cared about people and been involved with them and that has always shown thru.

No your best performers and spend time personally grooming them

Open door policy

Tough but fair is how you have always been described, no one is above the rules regardiess of position or

importance.

Create ways for people to win and they will keep winning. You will get that snowball effect.

Never miss a deadline

Culture of continuous improvement... never let people think they have made it, find the next challenge.

People can do lots more than you think if they have the right attitude so keep pushing them and they will even

surprise themselves

it's okay to try something new and fail as long as you learn from it

Bonus very rarely increase peoples performances at lower levels and are most of the time to complicated

Be careful who you give equity to. It can affect people very differently

The best ideas are the simplest ones; don't let people complicate your business because they will.

When you add a head or make a new department they will then in turn want to have more people assistants etc. So

never think the expense will stop at one person

The importance of what you say, the letter you send, the phone call you make, the lesson you teach, You will have

forgotten it by next week but it will stay with the team member for a life time.

No matter what excuses people will give you figures don't lie, never have and never will,

Presentation is important.

Okay enough already... You are an exceptional leader

If you get stuck look in Jacks book winning as you could have written that book... {t says it all,

Hope tt helps love me

From: Sandra- Retail reality [mailto:sandra@retailreality.com,au]

Sent: Wednesday, 8 April 2009 10:48 AM

To: Brett Blundy @ BB Retail; Tracey Blundy

Cc: Carlie O'Regan @ BB Retail

Subject: RE: "The Three O's: Great Teams" - May 13

Hi Brett, Hi Tracey!!! (How are you??? ) fam a mum too now —I know, can you believe it??? Also, No 2 on

the way (he he he}

Okay- here are my thoughts, | hope they are of some help:

Euperiences and secrets, on how to create and maintain great teams.

Recruitment on “Attitude” vs “Experience”

* You taught and lead us, even at very young ages looked beyond the resume, and looked for the

attitude, and ability to fit the company culture, and looked for willingness to do the job, any job!

* £xperience never took priority over Attitude, poor attitude was not tolerated.

Succession planning- very very rarely, especially in the early days were any outside teams

employed, as the mentality was that the culture became diluted, recruiting externally, and made

the organisation weak.

We were taught by YOU, to live, breathe, and drive a “customer first” mentality

We lived, breathed and dreamt of it always, and developed more and more of those successors

We were rewarded on service and succession planning primarily

Great Wages % were the outcome of good people management, and great sales drivers at every

level, in particular our prime timers

Great Sales were the outcome of great people management, succession planning, and

management of culture

We rewarded by promotion, not money- this worked with young ego’s who were willing to do

anything for the company.

You always taught us to Hire above ourselves, this is difficult for a lot of people, but we learnt that

we could not succeed without this understanding, and mentality, and of course we could not grow.

Culture:

All l ever remember, even up until today is the culture driven into every individual.

cf

What gets rewarded gets repeated- you drove a culture of

-Recruit the right individual

“Train and develop the “BRAZIN” way... now BBRC way

~Recognize strengths and ability (clear set of KPI's) — today’s world is super complicated- we

complicate it!

-reward these strengths (wasn’t always money- promotion from within was always better)

As a part of the team, and even today, | can walk into any shopping centre and see the only stores

open and trading before 9:00am is a BBRC store. No other company has the ability to drive, and

MAINTAIN that culture

Look internally for people who fail. If they fail you fail. This has been hard for even me to develop

in my team. You have always driven that if your team fail, you have failed yourself and that team

member.

Leaders lead- do as | do, not as I say~ culture culture culture...

The customer at the top of the hierarchy ~ the GM, CEO, etc is always the least important person,

the customer is the “boss”

Talking to people on their level, and never make them feel silly or stupid.

You have the ability to make people feel important, and it brings out their best.

Succession planning:

The development and ability to recognize hire achievers in a special gift.

You gave people a go, even if they were not quite ready, the majority stepped up, and took the

challenge, most exceeded the challenges given.

Lead lead lead.

No hierarchy feeling,

| hope that is sort of what you needed, | might have more as | think harder, but to put it in only 3 things,

made it quite difficult.

| hope you are both well, and we will talk soon.

Brett give me a call when you can,

Sanj

From: Brett Blundy [mailto:brettb@bbretailcapital.com.au}

Sent: Friday, 3 April 2009 2:01 PM

To: Sandra- Retail reality; tblundy@brazin.com.au