SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 2.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Leadership and Organizational Culture
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of leadership, initiative, and proactivity in building a strong team and fostering a culture that welcomes new ideas and innovation.
KEYWORDS: leadership, initiative, proactivity, organizational culture, innovation
---

of leadership or lack of initiative.

Learn from our culture - be aware that we

are the role models, we are the examples

for our team and that we cannot have a

strong team if we are not prepared to be

strong ourselves.

Adopt a yes, | can mentality. Understand

that it isn’t enough to want something to get

done - you have to plan for it to happen. If

you don’t plan, it won’t happen.

Page 68

BRAZIN MAGIC

Plan to achieve a superior outcome ...

What do you need to do to encourage

initiative in your team?

What do you need to do to provide a shared

vision and sense of purpose?

What do you need to do to involve each

and everyone of them?

What do you need to get around the

personalities and ensure each of them feels

valued, recognised and critical to achieving

a successful outcome?

What behaviours do you need to change in

yourself to ensure it happens?

Being proactive as an Executive in Brazin means that

you will be constantly asked to assess your Own

behaviour and make the necessary changes to

allow the team to grow. We can’t ask for world class

behaviour when we are not consistently

demonstrating it ourselves.

Our Appraisal System is the perfect

demonstration of this. Each person is asked

to appraise themselves first and in actual

fact, it is in this very process of self appraisal

. reviewing ourselves, looking inwards to

find the answers, that provides the real

seeds to our growth.

Brett has taught us not to depend on

fulsome, meaningless praise from others -

instead as executives we rely on our inner

voice, our own standards of excellence, to

tell us whether or not we have done the job

and the path we need to take as a result.

Page 69

BRAZIN MAGIC

Whenever we as Executives are asked to

perform a job, complete a task, carry out a

series of responsibilities ... let’s do if with a

proactive attitude - a focus on how can we

make it succeed.

That’s our culture - a culture that welcomes

new ideas because even though there may

be many that don’t work, there will be

hundreds that will.

Brazin, as all successful businesses has been built on

good ideas with many of the best coming from the

frontline team. Don't just ask yourself - how could

we do this better, ask your team ... but make sure

you are prepared to listen and respond with warmth,

sincerity and eagerness. Too many ideas are killed

because we didn’t listen effectively or we didn’t

respond the first time around.

How many new ideas has your team

generated with you this week? How many

have you sought?

Remember that innovation requires quantity

to product quality!

It’s rarely the idea that won‘t work - it could be the

timing, the appropriateness, the cost, the systems

needed to support it, the lack of team members ...

whatever the reason, we need to take the time out

to follow through and explain a no-go to our team.

A truly proactive executive is a great delegator ...

using everyday tasks and activities to encourage

excitement, growth, excellence and that famous

Brazin sense of ownership in all we do.

Page 70

BRAZIN MAGIC

Our culture encourages our team to adopt the

mentality of taking responsibility for their own actions

- that way, we have truly empowered them to be

outstanding. It is the greatest gift that we can give

to another ... that ability to accept responsibility for

our lives, our actions and whatever the

consequences may be.

Don’t just talk about the priority list that

needs to be completed today, talk instead

about the tasks that have been completed

and the jobs that didn’t get done - and then

make time to listen. Really listen. Not just

with half an ear, but with your full attention.

Not just with your intellect, but listen with

your all your heart ...

Listen to how each of your team members

feel about their performance, why they have

lost their passion, where they are crying out

for your help ... for it is in having those

conversations that we sow the seeds of

proactiveness in another. It is in making

time to hold those conversations that we

demonstrate initiative, resourcefulness and

accountability. That’s being proactive, that’s

what an executive, living our Brazin culture

demonstrates daily.

Many times Brett has said that his greatest sense of

pride comes from hearing the passion as well as the

frustration in some-one’s voice, as it is a wonderful

demonstration of ownership ... this is my company,

my values, my culture and I’m so proud of to be

here. Create passion and you create proactivity.

Page 71

BRAZIN MAGIC

Chapter Seven ...

CHANGE YOUR

MIND SET

Luke “Master, moving stones is

Skywalker one thing. This is totally

different.”

Yoda “ No. No different!

Only different in your mind.

You must unlearn what you

have learned.”

Page 72

BRAZIN MAGIC

Change your mind set ...

Everyone that joins Brazin has an enormous amount

to give, to offer to the growth of the company and

perhaps none more so than our executive team.

However, as ad new executive joining us you need to

be aware that the first thing Brett will ask of you is

that you take the time to understand. You may

have been used to a different way - that’s fine, but

until you understand our culture, don‘t attempt to

make changes. Instead, be sensitive that very often

it is we that need to make the changes.

Let go of your old culture, of the old ways ... live up

to the view that you have of yourself as flexible,

adaptable and dynamic - live a new mind set; a

mind set that is open to the possibilities that anything

can be achieved if it is in line with our culture and

our core values.