SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Company Culture and Values
SUMMARY: The text outlines the importance of a strong company culture, defined behaviors, and shared values in driving employee engagement and business success.
KEYWORDS: company culture, employee behavior, organizational values, Brazin culture, business success
---

Every person, regardless of their position models a

certain set of behaviours and values, yet rarely are

we called to account for our attitudes, let alone

define these behaviours.

At Brazin, we have defined these standards and we

ask each of our team to make the choice to model

and teach these behaviours ... this way of thinking ...

these attitudes ... for it is this, our culture, that has

more than proven its worth as the foundation of one

of Australia’s most successful retailers.

When the culture is strong, the people are

strong and when the people are strong, the

company is strong.

Our culture is found in the little things .... in attitudes,

in a focus on customers, in Communication and

team building, in the respect that team members

have for each other, in the jargon used, in the

environment we create in our Company, in the

standards of performance and in the willingness of

each team member - no matter what level - to put

in the extra effort ... fo walk the extra mile.

Page 8

BRAZIN MAGIC

Our Mission Statements, with the clear

message they send and the objectives they

define, allow us to engage the heart of each

of our team members; to inspire action and

to ignite passion - for who doesn’t want to

be the best?

Who doesn’t want to be developed to

their fullest potential? Who doesn’t want

to deliver to our customers awesome

satisfaction? Who doesn’t want to be part of

a fantastic success story? Who doesn’t want

to feel proud of the company they belong to

and the results they achieve together?

All of us go to work wanting to do a good job, to

learn, wanting to achieve and to be recognised for

our achievements, wanting to be part of a winning

team. All of us like to feel that “we, the team” have

the same goals, that we are all heading in the one

direction - that what is important fo me is equally as

important to you.

This is the job of the Mission Statement - defining our

direction; bringing everyone around our common

dream; providing a solid, unerring basis for decision

making and simplifying and coordinating the work of

all our different departments.

However, it is the culture that is the real glue,

for it determines how we will work together,

how team members will treat each other

and what attitudes bond us all together. It

creates consistency and provides stability in

an environment that is constantly changing.

Page 9

BRAZIN MAGIC

When our culture is strong, the team work from a

commitment to the rules - rather than from

compliance. Indeed, when the culture is strong, it

replaces rules - it ensures empowerment of team

members and guides people in their decision

making. The right behaviour becomes the norm,

automatic - part of the psyche of the team

member, which is why incongruent behaviour

immediately becomes more noticeable.

Breed the Brazin culture in all your team

members and not only will new team

members quickly decide whether we are

where they want to be ... your existing team

will also very quickly let you know whether

the new team member is able to understand

and embrace the culfure!

Your ally will truly be the force; but only if you believe

it, understand it, commit to it, exemplify it and live it

daily. The danger with a company the size of ours is

that the culture can be dissipated, misunderstood,

disregarded and those same values and attitudes

that led us to success can be just as easily and

quickly turned against us.

A successful culture defines the personality,

behaviours and character traits of who we

are - it represents ourselves at our very best,

incorporating all the fundamentals to

success in a_ format that is_ easily

remembered and readily understood.

Page 10

BRAZIN MAGIC

Brett has chosen at Brazin to sum up our culture in a

word that is used throughout the entire world in

every profession and in every endeavour, to

recognise excellence, superior performance and the

indomitable nature that is the human spirit. That

word is ... STAR.

“Take fast and make it faster.

Take smart and make it brilliant.

Believe that no matter how well you do

something, you can always do it better.

And chances are, you will.” Anon

We mentioned earlier that in our own quest to “raise

the bar”, we» moved from customer service to

customer satisfaction. This is the very first S$ ... and

the more outstanding the customer satisfaction we

have provided, the better! Let’s make one thing

clear from the start - you have the power to do

whatever it takes to make the customer happy.

Whatever it takes ... and that means jumping over

backwards. Don’t wait for the customer to say jump

- be proactive, take initiative and anticipate their

needs. We don’t operate our business for the 1% of

customers who intend to do the wrong thing; we

operate it for the 99% of customers who want to

shop in our stores, who love our team and who will

ultimately reward us with the greatest gift of all - their

loyalty.

Our aim with every single customer

transaction, both external and internal, is to

make it outstanding.

Page 11

BRAZIN MAGIC

There can be nothing more satisfying than working in

a Team environment, supporting and being

supported by like minded team members. You'll

notice that we ban the word staff and employees in

Brazin ... if immediately conjures up a them and us

situation which is totally alien to our culture.

We look for winners in our team and we

make it our job to see the extraordinary in

everyone.

“Working together, ordinary people can

achieve extraordinary things. They can

push things that come into their hands a little

higher up, a little further on towards the

heights of excellence.”

Each of us sits here now, reading this, with the