SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 2.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Employee Development and Culture
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of investing in employees through training, development, and fostering a strong company culture to ensure full commitment and success.
KEYWORDS: employee training, company culture, leadership development, commitment, success mindset
---

department. Take the time to share the culture, take

the time to train and develop your team ... because

it’s only by doing these things that we can be truly

assured that we gain full commitment.

We need to take the time to plan our day,

our week, our month, our results, our vision,

our meetings and our one on ones because

that is honouring our responsibilities and

demonstrating the integrity needed for

Brazin to grow.

Page 81

BRAZIN MAGIC

Whatever it fakes ... that’s our motto. Whether it

takes time after work, whether it takes heart,

whether it takes courage, whether it takes sacrifice,

whether it means leaving a comfort zone, whether it

means admitting a mistake, whether it means

learning to be more positive or seeing a different

view ... each of us will do whatever it takes to

succeed.

People do not work only for money ... that is

simply a by product. People work to gain

meaning in their lives, self esteem, personal

satisfaction, confidence and growth.

Engage their hearts and their minds will

follow and you will have the results you

need as a leader.

Each of us encounter adversity in our desire to

achieve worthwhile goals. The true growth for each

of us comes in understanding and applying the

lessons we needed to learn - lessons that were

crucial to our growth and development as an

executive. As we look back over our lives, we see

that our character has been shaped and moulded

by the tests that stretched us the most!

If we don’t give it our best shot, how will we

know what we were capable of producing?

To do nothing, or to do something half

heartedly is to fail. Take on the challenge,

commit to it wholeheartedly — with

determination and a success attitude and

there is no doubt that we will succeed. Do

or do not - there is absolutely no room for try

in our Brazin culture.

Page 82

BRAZIN MAGIC

Over delivery concerns. attitude, a

willingness to never be satisfied with the

status quo ... instead, it is an absolute desire

to be the best.

Our culture at Brazin is to always employ on attitude,

because the skills we need can be upgraded or

taught and that’s where we learn that size truly

matters not.

It’s not external factors like the age or experience of

a team member that counts - it’s what's inside that

is going to make the difference between a

consistently great performer and an average

performer. Once we are there of course, it’s up to us

to keep training, to keep at that level of peak

performance that will ensure our success and the

success of Brazin.

Size matters not reminds us that it’s not about where

people are at right now, it’s about where they have

the potential to be and our ability to help them get

there. We need a vision for each person and we

need to help them take that vision and run with it, to

make it their own.

85% of people become leaders because of

the influence of another leader and at

Brazin, the real mark of over delivery as an

executive is the number of leaders we have

been able to develop, to bring on ourselves.

Once again, that’s our culture at work - not

focused on the needs of ourselves but

focused on the needs of others.

Page 85

BRAZIN MAGIC

Size matters not - we still need to manage

this business as though it were our own, with

the same love and attention to detail and

the same _ passionate care about our

customers, our people and our costs.

We take pride in the fact that we have no

beaurocracy in Brazin, no red tape, no politics, no

levels to get through and no people needed to

champion your causes - decisions are made

immediately and in the best interests of the

company. Once again, a different attitude to many

companies but representative of all we are and alll

we stand for. Action gets results and ensures people

stay committed - there is nothing more

disheartening for our team than waiting, waiting,

waiting for a decision that we all know should have

been made days ago.

We continue to grow and this growth must continue

to force us to improve our skills as an executive. A

tanker, no matter how fast or agile, cannot turn like

a tug boat - it has to think well ahead to manage

situations. This is why we have clear guidelines, clear

standards, clear checklists, clear Manuals, clear Job

Descriptions ... much of that thinking has been done

for us and all we need to do to stay ahead is to

execute effectively.

Unlike Luke Skywalker, we would never say

... |can’t. Over delivery means seeing and

speaking possibilities, thinking on a macro

and a micro scale, managing on a hands-

on basis, for it is in the execution of small

detail that success is manifested.

Page 86

BRAZIN MAGIC

Chapter Ten ...

LEADERSHIP ...

WE ARE THE MESSAGE

Luke “I don’t believe it!”

Skywalker

Yoda “That ... is why you fail.”