SOURCE: The Future of Retail article_Rotman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Strategy Transformation
SUMMARY: Tough economic times and emerging technologies are prompting consumers to change their buying behavior, requiring retailers to adapt with innovative in-store offerings.
KEYWORDS: retail transformation, consumer behavior change, technology disruption, in-store innovation, retail strategy
---

ROT160

The Future of Retail:

From Revenue

Generator

to R&D Engine

Tough economic times and emerging technologies

are prompting consumers to change their

buying behaviour, and smart retailers are responding

with innovative in-store offerings.

byDanaChoandBeauTrincia

have hit traditional retailers hard, Financialuncertaintyispromptingconsumerstochangetheir

particularlyinNorthAmerica.CircuitCityandBordershave buyingbehaviours.Enabledbynewtechnologies,shoppersare

AnnTaylorandHomeDepothaveclosed

hundredsofstores;andAmericanApparelisreportedlymillions in-the-momentpromotions,andconsultfriendsorfamilybefore

buying anything.

these failures range from overly-aggressive expansion strate- Asthewaysinwhichpeoplemakepurchasedecisionsmul-

giestounfortunateinvestmentdecisions–but,inreality,abig tiply, retailers of all kinds are at a crossroads. One of the key

driverofthisretailupheavalisold-fashionedbelt-tightening. reasonsforoperatingabricks-and-mortarstore–buildingastrong,

47

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

Customers today want retailers

to be less about well-orchestrated

brands and carefully rehearsed

answers and more about transparency,

authenticity and passion.

distinctive brand experience – no longer seems relevant. Thanks still give retailers the best space in which to establish long-term

to the rapid rise of social media and corporate transparency, connections with customers. Let’s look at how a few companies

consumers now wield tremendous influence in shaping retail are shifting their mindsets and moving from driving transac-

brands and are growing increasingly skeptical of overly-slick store tions to encouraging inspiration and discovery; from featuring

designs, clerks and marketing messages. The once-dependable ‘expert staff’ to ‘informed enthusiasts’; from targeting shoppers

competitive edges for bricks-and-mortar retailers are eroding, to targeting product owners; and from focusing on revenue gen-

which means they can no longer afford to assume any inherent eration to R&D.

advantages over their online competitors.

For instance, store owners have long believed that the From Driving Transactions to Encouraging Inspiration

‘thrill’ of shopping – that visceral, emotional rush that people get The focus on convenience, straightforward navigability and

when touching or interacting with a product before they buy it – seamless transactions in the name of making in-store purchases

would uphold their popularity. But e-commerce Web sites are as easy as possible runs counter to what consumer behaviour tells

disproving this axiom by generating similar excitement online us. During the 2010 holiday shopping season, 48 per cent of con-

with concepts such as ‘flash sales’ and ‘social shopping’. For ex- sumers who used a smartphone in some way said they purchased

ample, GILT Groupe offers its members daily flash sales, which goods in retail stores, while nearly as many – 45 per cent – bought

feature luxury goods in low quantities for an extremely limited items online via computer. However, the majority also said that,

time, giving people only a few minutes to make purchase deci- regardless of how they ultimately acquired the product, they had

sions. The site, which launched in 2007, now has a valuation of visited an actual store to browse. This suggests that although

US$1 billion. Meanwhile, Svpply has built a social network consumers often opt for the convenience of digital channels to

around shopping, letting its users track trends, including the make purchases, bricks-and-mortar stores continue to play an

items their friends buy. Its popularity has grown seven-fold since important role in the shopping journey – primarily where product

its introduction in late 2009. discovery and inspiration are concerned.

As online retailers slash shipping times and costs to next to The types of products purchased online versus at retail

nothing, bricks-and-mortar retailers can no longer depend upon stores also varies. Shoppers are increasingly off-loading mission-

instant gratification as a competitive edge. Online giants Zap- based errands, or the acquisition of commoditized products (i.e.

pos and Amazon now send purchases overnight at a discount household staples) to other channels. This gives traditional

and provide second-day service for free. The success of these stores both room and permission to be less about enabling

tactics suggests that virtual storefronts can be at least as effective convenient, seamless transactions and more about inspiration,

as physical ones, if not more so. So, how can bricks-and-mortar discovery and serendipity. Stores could focus more intently on

retailers survive – and thrive – as consumer attitudes and buying enticing browsers, using the physical space to convert explor-

habits change? atory shoppers, who arrive with little to no intention to buy, into

They could, of course, expand their online presence, and potential buyers, who may make a purchase in the store or through

many are doing just that. But a few leading-edge companies are another channel later.

also challenging long-held industry beliefs and re-examining J.Crew’s Liquor Store provides a prime example of doing

how they use their physical presence. These retailers are discov- exactly that. J.Crew opened its first men’s clothing store in 2008

ering that the sales floor presents them with opportunities to with the goal of inspiring exploratory shoppers – people who

develop more open relationships with shoppers that help them weren’t current customers of the brand. At the time, J.Crew’s

better understand their audience and create an inspiring experi- menswear had little following, and the retailer sought to raise its

ence that drives customer loyalty. profile through a dedicated storefront. It took over a historic

Although digital channels may be better positioned to pro- watering hole in New York’s TriBeCa neighborhood, and rather

vide short-term transactional value, bricks-and-mortar stores than focus on packing in as many items into the 935-square-foot

48/ Rotman Magazine Winter 2012

This document is authorized for use only by Jason Mahendran (jasonmahendran@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact

customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or 800-988-0886 for additional copies.

store as possible, J.Crew kept the bar’s atmosphere intact, and passion. Store associates, therefore, need to evolve from

stocking shelves with bottles and filling the room with vintage ‘expert staff’ into informed brand enthusiasts who are proud of

furniture and non-J.Crew brands such as Timex, Red Wing their organization.

andMackintosh. How might a retailer and its sales associates reveal a brand’s

Retailers who believe in conventional wisdom would con- organizational values? Consider the UK department store John

sider this a waste of precious floor space that could have been Lewis, which operates on a partnership model that makes every