SOURCE: The Big Idea Accelerate!.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Strategic Transformation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the need for organizations to achieve strategic agility and short-term efficiency through a dual operating system to sense threats, seize opportunities, and maintain a competitive advantage.
KEYWORDS: strategic agility, dual operating system, organizational transformation, competitive advantage, opportunity exploitation
---

started to win back market share, which

the financial community has rewarded

with a §5% increase in the company’s

market cap.

These are still early days. If the dual op-

erating system is to achieve its true poten-

tial, it must spread to the entire enterprise.

| think it will. That's when the company will

become a model of both strategic agility

and short-term efficiency: Today's results

will grow stronger and stronger while the

whole organization works together to

sense threats and respond to them before

it’s too late~and, more important, to

seize and exploit opportunities at a pace

that will ensure that it flourishes for years

to come.

a number of ways, chiefly through the people who

populate both systems. Still, the organization’s

leaders play an important role in launching and

maintaining the network: the C-suite or executive

committee must create it (more on that later) and

explicitly bless and support it. The network cannot

be viewed as a rogue operation. It must be treated as

alegitimate part of the organization, or the hierarchy

will crush it.

The Eight Accelerators

These are the processes that enable the strategy net-

work to function:

1. Create a sense of urgency around a sin-

gle big opportunity. This is absolutely critical

to heightening the organization’s awareness that

it needs continual strategic adjustments and that

they should always be aligned with the biggest op-

portunity in sight. Urgency starts at the top of the

hierarchy, and it is important that executives keep

acknowledging and reinforcing it so that people will

wake up every morning determined to find some ac-

tion they can take in their day to move toward that

opportunity.

Sufficient urgency around a strategically rational

and emotionally exciting opportunity is the bedrock

November 2012 Harvard Business Review 51

THE BIG IDEA ACCELERATE!

HBR.ORG

NL TNA Retinitis,

upon which all else is built, In my original work 15

years ago, I found that ridding an organization of

complacency was important, In my more recent

work, I’ve seen ongoing urgency emerge asa strong

competitive advantage. It can galvanize a volunteer

army and keep the dual operating system in good

working order. 1! moves managers to focus on oppor-

tunities and allow the network to grow for the ben-

efit of the organization, Without an abiding sense of

urgency, no chance of creating a grander business

will survive,

For clients, my team has begun by having the ex:

ecutive committee take a first pass at articulating the

styategic opportunity, This makes sense because its

members are in a position to see the big picture and

because their role in nurturing the dual structure fs

vital~particularly in the early days, when it is most

vulnerable to the forces of resistance. (For the story

of how one sales executive ata technology firm cre-

ated urgency, see the sidebar “The Dual Operating

System in Practice.”)

The Eight Accelerators

‘The processes that enable the strategy network to function

Institutionalize Build and maintain a

strategic changes guiding coalition,

Inthe culture.

Never fet up: Formulate a strategic

Keep learning vision and develop

from experience. change initiatives

Don't declare victory designed to capitalize

eo soon, on the big opportunity,

Communicate the

Colebrate visibte,. viston and the strategy

significant short- to create buy-in and

term wins. Accelsrate attract a prowing

movement toward “volunteer army.”

Ube vision and the

opportunity by

ensuring that the

network removes

barriers,

$2 Harvard Business Review November 2012

2. Build and maintain a guiding coalition.

The core ofa strategy network is the guiding co-

alition (GC), which is made up of volunteers from

throughout the organization, In my work with cli-

ents, people fill out applications to be on the GC,

With a sufficient sense oF urgency, you may get 10

times as many applications as there are roles in the

network’s core.

The GC is selected to represent each of the hier-

archy’s departments and levels, with a broad range

of skills, It must be made up of people whom the

leadership trusts, and must include at least a few

outstanding leaders and managers. ‘This ensures

that the GC can gather and process information as

no hierarchy ever could,

All members of the GC are equal; no internal bi-

erarchy slows down the transfer of information. The

coalition can see inside and outside the enterprise,

knows the details and the big picture, and uses all

this information to make good enterprisewicde de-

cisions about which strategic initiatives to launch

and how best to do so. The social dynamics of the

GC may be uncomfortable at first, but once a team

learns how to aperate well, most members seem to

love being part of it,

3. Formulate a strategic vision and develop

change initiatives designed to capitalize on the

big opportunity. ‘The vision will serve as a strate-

gic true north for the dual operating system, A well-

formulated vision is focused on taking advantage of

a big make-or-break opportunity. (Ifo such oppor-

tunity exists, because you operate ina rare pocket of

competitive stability, you may not need this system

quite yet. But keep your eyes open: That situation

wort last.) The right vision is feasible and easy to

communicate. It is emotionally appealing as well

as strategically smart. And it gives the GC a picture

of success and enough information and direction to

make consequential decisions on the fly, withour

having to seek permission at every turn.

i creating one company’s vision statement, the

guiding coalition sought input from top manage-

ment, a consullant’s report, and colleagues through-

out the organization. The vision statement described

what the sales group, which was dealing with mar-

ket losses, could look like in a year if it accelerated

toward a big opportunity. It outlined pragmatic

goals but framed them with emotional resonance,

using words such as “proud,” “passionate,” and “ad-

mired,” Asa result, the group vowed to work better

with partners, double growth in emerging markets,

THE BIG IDEA ACCELERATE!

HBR.ORG

Sufficient urgency around a strategically

rational and emotionally exciting