SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 2.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and Leadership
SUMMARY: The text discusses Brazin's culture of commitment, discipline, and integrity, where 'trying' is not acceptable and leaders must set the example of being proactive and giving their best.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, leadership, discipline, integrity, commitment
---

we thought possible. How often has this been

demonstrated in our IT department? How often

have we been recommended to spend thousands

and thousands of dollars on costly new systems,

when in actual fact it was a people and culture

problem from the start?

How often could negative attitudes in our

own departments have been averied if we

were willing to change our mind set - to

take a fresh look at the problem and remind

our team of the opportunities. If we can do

it, so will our team.

We are their leaders and it’s hard to be

inspired if we are not inspiring ourselves! Be

aware of the effect we have on others and

when tempted to complain, to be negative,

to roll our eyes, to be inconsistent with the

culture - change our mind set!

Don’t let yesterday into today! Today is a new day,

a new start and an opportunity for fresh beginnings -

to learn from the mistakes and then, learn to put

ourselves in the place of most potential so that we

can see the changes that need to be made.

Let’s be proud of the different way we do things at

Brazin, for it is that willingness to unlearn ... to step

out against what is most comfortable ... to be

counted ... that has made us great and has given us

the strong culture we value and wonderful ideals to

live up to.

Page 77

BRAZIN MAGIC

Chapter Eight ...

THERE IS NO TRY

Luke “OK - Ill give it a try”

Skywalker

Yoda “No. Try not. Do or do not...

there is no try.”

Page 78

BRAZIN MAGIC

There is no try ...

There is no try in Brazin, simply because

trying means a lack of commitment. No half

measures ... no near enough is good

enough ... no that will do ... no giving up.

We do it, we commit to making it happen,

we make the necessary decisions, we put in

place the plans, we _ take on_ the

responsibility and we do it!

The core value that underpins this philosophy is

discipline. Discipline to actually commit to what we

said we would do. Brett often says that is the

fundamental rule of success - keeping the promises

we make to ourselves! Each of us know the ones - I'll

do that tonight, I'll get to it this week, I'll read it

tomorrow, I'll have it prepared for you, we'll have a

day together ... the list goes on.

It’s not a lack of desire, it’s a lack of commitment

and discipline that lets us down. We might as well

have prefaced each of these with “I'll try”! As soon

as anyone says I'll try, we know their heart is not

engaged. That’s why we have banned it as a

phrase at Brazin. It’s an easily understood concept,

one which asks us to be our very best at all times.

A Brazin leader understands integrity - and

by banning the try phrase and the try

behaviour, we encourage integrity in all its

forms ... trust, reliability, honesty, honour and

commitment.

Page 79

BRAZIN MAGIC

Our culture is one of being involved, being

proactive, being committed ... in essence, we are

constantly seeking a new PB, a new personal best.

As soon as we add the element of doubt, of giving it

a try .. we have already failed and yet, for

champions, failure is not an option. Failure means

staying down, regarding it as a fall, rather than a slip

- we prefer to see things the other way around.

Each of us are committed to this principle - however

it is in the execution of it that we let ourselves down.

We engage a new team member, we promise to do

everything we can to make them successful, we

give them their Training Manuals, we say we'll be

back ... and then we don‘t.deliver.

We promote a feam member, we say we'll give you

all the help you need ... and then we don’t deliver.

We've forgotten to plan and as a result, are in a

desperate hurry for the purchase of some new

equipment, perhaps something as simple as

stationery - we know costs are the enemy, but

because of our urgency we accept a higher cost ...

we don’t deliver.

The list could go on - instead our challenge

is to develop the discipline we need not to

try, but to do or do not!

Our team depend on us to do that, our own

manager depends on us to do that, Brett

depends on us to do that and the success of

our culture rests on our ability to do that.

Page 80

BRAZIN MAGIC

How often do we accept mediocre

performance, rationalising it as “they’re

doing their best”? Are they? Are we? In

reality, it’s a form of try - disguised, but a

form of try nonetheless.

We have to hone our management skills, we

have to dig deeper to find the issues that

lead to a half hearted performance, we

have to stand firm and uphold the culture -

asking for and expecting the very best that

each person can give.

That means setting clear guidelines from the

beginning. It means having the discipline to enforce

those standards and it means recognising that each

team member needs clear and consistent feedback

from us everyday.

Don‘t assume they know - because they don’t!

Instead, make sure they know - take the time to go

through in detail the Job Description and the Key

Performance Indicators, Take the time to go through

what's important to us as a Company and as a

department. Take the time to share the culture, take

the time to train and develop your team ... because

it’s only by doing these things that we can be truly

assured that we gain full commitment.

We need to take the time to plan our day,