SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and Teamwork
SUMMARY: The text discusses the Brazin company culture, emphasizing the importance of teamwork, positive attitude, and continuous improvement for achieving extraordinary results.
KEYWORDS: Organizational Culture, Teamwork, Attitude, Continuous Improvement, Employee Engagement
---

make it our job to see the extraordinary in

everyone.

“Working together, ordinary people can

achieve extraordinary things. They can

push things that come into their hands a little

higher up, a little further on towards the

heights of excellence.”

Each of us sits here now, reading this, with the

benefit of years of experience and understanding.

However if we are honest, we will acknowledge that

we weren‘’t always fantastic when we started!

Fortunately, somebody saw beyond that, saw the

enormous potential in us and gave us our first start

on the road to success.

Teamwork divides the task and doubles the success

. at Brazin, we believe that “one of us is not as

good as all of us.” Ironically though, it is often these

differences, the personalities so unlike our own that

can be very difficult to manage!

However with our culture as the ally, we

learn that the single truest measure of each

individual team member’s potential for

success in our business, is their attitude.

Page 12

BRAZIN MAGIC

Attitude means many things. First and foremost to

Brazin, it means consciously making an attitude

choice when you get up each morning. That choice

is to stay positive and motivated throughout the day;

to be the role model our team needs; to add value

and learning to each conversation and to take the

attitude of continuous improvement - finding out

how we can be better today than we were

yesterday.

We look for dedication and commitment to

the job - not clock watchers, instead team

members that are excited about their work!

We are proud of the fact that at the end of

each day, each store speaks to their Area

Manager, each Area Manager speaks to

their State Manager, each State Manager

speaks to their National Manager and that

no matter how late it is, all GM’s know the

state of play in our stores for the day ... and

this happens seven days out of every week.

The value of those calls is enormous ... instead of

finishing the day feeling de-motivated and frustrated

because we haven't beaten budget - a few simple

words and thoughts, carefully chosen and gently

discussed over the phone, have had the power to

re-ignite passion and purpose; tomorrow will be a

great day! Instead of feeling on a high after a great

day, yet frustrated and let down because there is

no-one to share the exciting news with - that phone

call has recognised achievement and encouraged

a repeat performance tomorrow! It has also sent

another powerful message ... that we, as the leaders

of our team care about each and every one of our

people and are always accessible.

Page 13

BRAZIN MAGIC

Yet, it takes a special person to make the

commitment to be there, to be willing to take those

calls long after the stores have closed their doors,

long after the Support Centre team have left.

For those that are willing, the opportunities

are limitless and the rewards are there. The

success of Brazin is a reflection of the

success of the team.

Ours is a culture of learning - we invest in

our team and we would always choose fo

promote from within ... to grow our own

team ... for there is already a great attitude,

a demonstrated loyalty and commitment to

the culture ... the STAR meniality is firmly in

place and all that needs to be taught are

the skills to carry out the new role.

Attitudes are caught, not taught and we firmly

believe that the attitudes you give out are the

attitudes you get back.

No fancy Head Offices or Ivory Towers for us,

designed with luxurious appointments, sending out

the wrong messages to everyone that deals with us.

We’re proud of the fact that we’re lean and mean,

we’re proud of the fact that we have banned the

word Head Office, we’re proud of the fact that

instead we have a very functional, very productive

Support Centre which exists solely to serve the

business needs of our customers and our stores.

At Brazin, our culture is reflected in every

single thing we do. The strength of our future

is found in our attitude to the culture.

Page 14

BRAZIN MAGIC

The strength of our culture is always directly

measured in Results - which are always the

measurement of our success.

It is not in the planning but in the outcomes

that we are judged.

Results are the cornerstone of our profitability.

Results aren't always directly measurable, but you

will find the belief in the culture, the level of

customer satisfaction, the teamwork and the

attitudes that exist in the team members you

manage, is always reflected in the results you

produce.

At Brazin, costs are the enemy. It’s as simple and yet

as difficult as that. Each team member is charged

with the responsibility of soending as though it were

their own money, constantly questioning — their

expenses and looking for ways to reduce our costs.

“Three quotes” are the norm for many companies,

but we urge you to go one step beyond that. Take

ownership of your business for indeed, as a public

company, it is your business ... how can we do a

better deal, how can we achieve a better result at a

better price, do we actually need to spend this

money?

Results comprise a commitment to excellence in

every area of our business and an overriding desire

to beat the budgets. As we break that down, it’s

about a desire to empower each team member to

take responsibility for their own results, through the

Key Performance Indicators that assist them in

continuous improvement - how can | do better?

Page 15

BRAZIN MAGIC

Pay attention to who is not delivering. Look

at why things went wrong. Understand that it

is never the economy, or the stock, or

another company’s advertising, or the

weather, or a quiet period in the Centre ...