SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Employee Recruitment and Culture Building
SUMMARY: This text discusses the key qualities Brazin looks for in hiring team members and building a strong organizational culture.
KEYWORDS: employee recruitment, organizational culture, teamwork, employee training, positive attitude
---

you. Whichever way you put it, the meaning is the

same. Take a good look and if you don’t like what

you see, ask yourself what you have been changing

to make the changes necessary for the team to

grow, develop and become totally focused on living

our culture.

Let’s start with our expectations of the team,

but let’s make one thing very clear from the

outset. It is easy to teach skills, but so much

harder to teach a positive attitude.

Often, because we perceive we are desperate to

employ a Manager, we make do with our

recruitment choices. We think, they‘ll get it - they’re

friendly enough and they've had loads of

experience. That story probably doesn’t even need

to be finished, because we've all done that at some

point in our lives ... and regretted our decision

immediately our new team member joined us. They

were wrong from the start.

So what's right for us at Brazin? What do we look for

in a team member? Very often, we’ve made our

decision before we even sit down.

We see a well presented person with a firm

handshake and a ready, happy smile ...

some-one who looks us firmly in the eye

whilst initiating small talk with us ... some-

one who shows respect, yet at the same

time carries themselves confidently. Some-

one who walks with a sense of urgency to

the meeting room.

Page 37

BRAZIN MAGIC

As we start to talk together, we find some-

one who sees the positive rather than the

negative in all their life experiences, some-

one who wants to grow and be challenged,

some-one who is not too big to learn, some-

one who loves people and who wants to

contribute.

We talk some more and we find out that

they have a passion for customers, that

they’ve often come in early to spend time

training a new team member or stayed

back late to complete a job.

Our list could go on, but once you understand the

culture, you can Tell in a matter of minutes whether

somebody will be prepared to believe in it, to love it

and to foster it in others. That’s the power of a strong

culture - it quickly sorts the achievers from the time

wasters and as we previously noted, it’s the team

themselves that do the sorting.

A strong culture provides the framework for

outstanding performance. It will encourage

the team to take ownership and

responsibility for their ideas, actions and

results.

Our job is to make sure our team knows

what has to be done and why. Our job is to

explain it in such a way that it is no longer

our objective, but theirs. Our job is to then

understand what help they need from us in

order to get their job done. Lastly, our job is

to follow up - to look back at what has

taken place and to use it as a learning

experience!

Page 38

BRAZIN MAGIC

Teamwork involves so many issues, but for Brett and

the Brazin culture, teamwork comes down to three

vital elements: vision, communication and trust.

Vision or big picture, because we all

operate differently when we know the

reason that something needs to be done.

No longer are our minds engaged, our

hearts are engaged too. Somebody needs

us, is depending on us to achieve this ... we

spring into action, determined not to let

them down.

Do “XYZ”, we are told. Our natural instinct is to

automatically ask ... why? So, tell - share more

information than you ever thought was possible,

because it will make a huge difference to the way

the job is carried out, Those extra minutes spent in

the correct briefing, in answering questions, in

explaining the big picture will be more than saved

along the way ... and will show up in commitment, in

initiative and in results.

A wonderful by-product of sharing the big

picture when delegating tasks is that your

team will too.

If you do something well, chances are ...

they will too. If you do something badly,

chances are they will duplicate you one

hundred times over!

Our culture teaches us to autograph our

work with excellence. Our team are our

work in progress ... the more effort we put in,

the greater the results.

Page 39

BRAZIN MAGIC

Sharing the big picture ensures that each

person doesn’t only know what has to be

done, they know the standards that are

expected, they know the time frames

needed, they know the people who will be

involved and most importantly, they know

the outcomes that are anticipated.

Our culture is outcomes focused, but often we are

too rushed to provide all the details that our team

need. When the job isn’t done to the standards

required, our first instinct is to say ... but, | told them

to do it. A closer, more honest inspection will tell us

that it’s not their fault, it’s ours ... and we not only do

we learn the ownership lesson all over again, we are

once again reminded of the importance of

communication to effective teamwork!

Communication is not about being

understood. It’s about understanding others.

Communication is the lifeblood of our culture. We

communicate in so many ways every day and with

so many people that we can lose sight of what we

are aiming to achieve.

We are so intent on delivering our message that it

seems not to matter whether that message has been

clearly understood, interpreted correctly and

resulted in the right actions. Yet, how easy is it to

receive the wrong message, to take offence where

none has been meant, to go down one path when it

was the highway you should have been taking ...

and all because our communication was ineffective!

Page 40

BRAZIN MAGIC

Our major communication tool today, the

Weekly Memo or Wasp came as a result of

foo much communication hitting the stores