SOURCE: The Future of Retail article_Rotman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Strategy and Brand Representation
SUMMARY: Retailers can use their physical spaces and employee culture to represent their brand's organizational values and drive customer engagement.
KEYWORDS: retail strategy, brand representation, employee engagement
---

andMackintosh. How might a retailer and its sales associates reveal a brand’s

Retailers who believe in conventional wisdom would con- organizational values? Consider the UK department store John

sider this a waste of precious floor space that could have been Lewis, which operates on a partnership model that makes every

devoted to as many sellable brand-specific products as possible. employee a partial owner of the business. Not surprisingly, be-

However, J.Crew’s goal was to raise awareness of its men’s line – cause they are partners who share in the company’s profits,

and pique the interest of potential customers. The concept appears employee engagement and retention are high; compared with

to be working: J.Crew has subsequently opened three more others in the industry, John Lewis staff stays on the job twice as

Men’s Shops, and although the company declines to provide long. The store’s hiring practices de-emphasize retail experience;

sales figures for individual stores, CEO Micky Drexler recently what counts in recruitment is behaviour. “You can train anyone

told investors, “We are beyond thrilled with the performance of to do things,” one partner told the Guardian UK. “But nobody

our stand-alone men’s stores.” J.Crew earned $44.7 million in can teach someone how to be.”

the first quarter of 2010, up from $20.4 million during the same “We ask not only that you do your day job, but that you play

period a year ago. In addition, its chief menswear designer, an active role as an owner,” a member of the partnership board

Frank Muytens, was ranked among the top in his field in GQ’s explained in the same article. “That you engage with your col-

2010 Best New Menswear Designers competition. leagues and work with them in thinking through what will make

Using physical spaces to drive inspiration rather than trans- the business successful. Our shareholders aren’t passive and dis-

actions isn’t limited to the retail industry. In 2010 Crédit Foncier, tant … they have lots of opinions.” And those opinions are voiced

a mortgage lender in France, invested in a high-profile store in through democratic channels: the chairman and board run the

Paris’s Opera district to inspire people to want to own a home. company’s commercial activities, but an 82-member partner-

Most lenders make in-person visits from prospective borrowers ship council elects nearly half the board (which could, if needed,

as perfunctory and short as possible, gearing information toward fire the chairman). The partnership council is elected primarily

people who plan to buy a home in the near future. In contrast, through a network of forums representing every department

Foncier Home targets anyone who might be thinking about of every company store. So, the board looks after the partners;

home ownership – even if it’s just a long-term goal or dream. The the partners look after the customers; and the customers spend

store includes a café, where people can meet casually with a real money in the store. For John Lewis, this ‘virtuous circle’ works

estate agent while looking over residential listings. It also includes well: in the depths of a global financial downturn, John Lewis

a section with information about renovations and remodeling – has turned an operating profit of 20 per cent, and customer

services that Foncier Home doesn’t yet offer but are an exciting, satisfaction remains high.

aspirational aspect of home ownership. Although the company The shift from being an expert to being an enthusiast – some-

sells nothing tangible and has no real need to maintain a large one who believes in the brand and organization they work for

retail space, Foncier is banking on the notion that a discovery- and can speak passionately about the products at hand – has less

based experience such as the one made possible in its flagship to do with scripted service and more to do with organizational

store will encourage more people to become home buyers. And design. In the John Lewis example, hiring, governance and ac-

when they do, Foncier Home will be top-of-mind as the go-to countability create a foundation for empowered, engaged and

lender. Crédit Foncier expects this concept to drive growth in impassioned associates. Many leading-edge U.S. retailers have

the future and has plans for expansion. taken similar personnel-oriented approaches. Perhaps the best

known is Apple, which transformed consumer technology retail

From Expert Staff to Informed Enthusiasts with its retail stores. For the Apple Store’s tenth anniversary ‘re-

Powered by social media, peer recommendations are gaining fresh’ this year, the company invested heavily in supporting its

ground in power and influence. In a recent survey, nearly eight enthusiastic store associates with service-enabling technology

out of ten people said they trust peer recommendations above all rather than in a redesign of the bricks-and-mortar interior.

other sources of information. Yet retailers are still pouring billions

of dollars into service training on a workforce that routinely sees From Targeting ShopperstoTargeting Owners

50 per cent turnover each year. The fact is, as consumers rely Retail stores have traditionally been designed for shoppers with

on friends, social networks and other independent resources the intention to buy and, perhaps as a result, retailers have long

for expert information, the role of the store associate is shifting depended on in-store marketing and communications to sell the

dramatically. quality and other worthy attributes of their products. Under the

Thenew purpose of a retail store lies in its ability to repre- new paradigm we are describing, bricks-and-mortar retailers have

sent an organization’s actual culture and values, captured and an opportunity to acknowledge the value of the product owner’s

rendered by its sales associates. Customers today want retailers role as a brand ambassador and key influencer on other shoppers.

to be less about well-orchestrated brands and carefully re- In a study conducted by social-networking site myYearbook,

hearsed answers and more about transparency, authenticity 81 per cent of respondents said they had received online advice

Rotman Magazine Winter 2012 /49