SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 2.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and Accountability
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of maintaining a strong organizational culture, upholding commitments, and taking accountability for actions and results to ensure long-term business success.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, accountability, results-driven, commitment, business success
---

also responsible to thousands of stakeholders, not

the least of those who are our team members, who

so willingly trust us to keep our commitments ...

deliver on the results we have promised ... and who

themselves provide the best example by always

walking the extra mile.

So, next time you are tempted to quickly

authorise an expense, sign off on a roster,

initiate a new project - ask yourself ... in

what way will this impact the bottom line?

Brett has given us an enormous legacy - by

living our culture on a daily basis, we ensure

that we stay in business for the long term.

We are in business for the long term and yet,

how frequently are we the reason that our

stores and our people don’t perform?

What do we do when we make a phone call, ask

about the day and realise that the team member

doesn‘t know the budget ... mostly, we let it go.

We're busy, we reason - we'll fix it next time.

Problem is, next time comes around too quickly and

we're still too busy.

What do we do when a team member takes a sickie

.. We know they're fudging it ... we know their team

mates are covering - how often do we just let it go.

They're pretty good most of the time, we reason - I'll

address it if it happens again. Problem is, we don’t!

Page 64

BRAZIN MAGIC

What does if mean when our team doesn’t

personally ring in for sick calls? What does it mean

when we have our National Days and we find that

not everyone has participated? What does it mean

when we realise that we have missed a deadline -

the list could go on and on! It means that we

haven‘t communicated our expectations, it means

that we have let standards slip, it means that we

haven't seriously taken accountability for our roles.

Fundamentally, it means that the culture has

gone wrong somewhere. It means that we

are following, not setting the pace. If means

that we haven’t been focused on

excellence, it means that we haven’t kept

the positive attitudes going all day, it means

that everything we stand for has been

compromised. It doesn’t take long for little

issues to become deeper issues that involve

more and more people.

Results ... they are the cornerstone of our profitability

and an integral part of our culture. Every person

who has joined us, every one of us who has

achieved success in their career through Brazin has

demonstrated that we are results driven and results

focused.

Let’s keep the focus on our results - let’s cut through

the minutiae of our day to concentrate on the things

that really matter, because if we as the Senior

Managers don’t deliver, we won't be fulfilling the

commitments we have made ... and our customers

will suffer, our team will suffer, our attitudes will suffer,

our culture will suffer and it will have enormous

ramifications on our results.

Page 65

BRAZIN MAGIC

Chapter Six ...

BEING PROACTIVE

Luke “We'll never get it out now.”

Skywalker

Yoda “So certain are you? (Sigh)

Always with you what

cannot be done.

Hear you nothing that |

say?”

Page 66

BRAZIN MAGIC

Being proactive ...

In the past few chapters, we’ve come to

understand how Brett has shaped the culture

of Brazin - the values that are important to

our business and the behaviours that have

made us very successful as a company.

All this would not have been possible

without fostering a culture of ownership

within Brazin. Each of us has had fo learn,

sometimes the hard way, that we are alll

about taking responsibility for our actions.

That’s tough for some, but wonderful news

for the executives that thrive on challenge

and superior performance. No excuses for

us - instead, our culture is all about how we

will do it better next time.

Brett has charged us each with the

responsibility of finding the little things that

have let us down and using our initiative to

improve our results for next time. We call it

being proactive ... opening our eyes to the

possibilities of producing an extraordinary

performance every time.

We’ve all known the people for whom everything is

impossible - as Yoda says - always what cannot be

done. They place the blame rather than taking the

blame. They sap our energy to shape their own.

They find a million excuses ... we find a million

opportunities. They knock people down ... we build

people up. They are reactive ... we are proactive.

Page 67

BRAZIN MAGIC

However, being proactive requires us fo be aware at

all times. How easy is it to fall into the traps:

¢ | just didn’t get the time to complete it

The stores are quiet today - sales are really slow

¢ One of my team was away - we missed that

deadline

@ | can’t get anyone to stay back tonight

That’s not my job - | thought some-one else took

care of that

@ | don’t know why she’s leaving - | haven‘t had a

chance to call her

# Communication is really terrible around here

@ | don’t think | can work with him - I’ve heard he’s

really tough

¢ If only my team were stronger - they're very new

and inexperienced

The list goes on and on and each of us has been

guilty of making comments that clearly pass the

buck ... that hand over all responsibility for our

actions to some-one else ... that make excuses for

poor time planning ... that make excuses for our lack

of leadership or lack of initiative.

Learn from our culture - be aware that we

are the role models, we are the examples

for our team and that we cannot have a

strong team if we are not prepared to be

strong ourselves.

Adopt a yes, | can mentality. Understand