SOURCE: The Three Os_Great Teams_2009.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Retail Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses various aspects of a retail business, including leadership, financial management, mistakes, product offerings, market trends, and financing.
KEYWORDS: retail strategy, business management, financial performance, product development, market analysis
---

Hi Carlie,

For Brett's update, attached is Invitation sent to Members.

2

Leodeeshiy Gt hel nig / Mele decit(ory /

Are Ny bali the nila hoectiong

How do think the Rudd government is performing on Leadership and 1

Financial management? word Ho, rie Or

i th ef on eh

4

Uners pley ou mal

Sloys

v Pell ox Pope PAERBRC TT “el Th lB tt addr vos lio Ld ox

(® People Fearn Bulle

| Leaderphaj

What have been your biggest mistakes? 3 caber Pha

Ot cel Jy (omen ile bd} ; | .

Sau Cre { aud Alp ye,

what's additional products do you mk ye will be selling in Bulky Goods

Centres in 5-10 years time —

Couns y — He eimel, Ploy Cenbeves » OI" erred

_ aR AE: oben 4 local — (ales [beslovoste e

~ Ene

As you have an exposure to the broad ‘elail'h market where do you think the

market is heading in the next few years?

AS thal Kine on tHe Ceurres

4

What do you use as motivation, to continually build your retail success?

From your experience are landlords being more accommodating with

during these difficult trading times

What is the reasoning for selling Macro Foods to Woolworths —~ Equily Parka.

Use bolore, af fle example

What is currently the availability of finance? Touuh,

Have you recently seen a reduction in the cost of funding?

How do you view the banks and their attempt to achieve higher margins on

their lending?

Canl| all He Bh Me mart |x

Carlie O'Regan can Ploce.

From: Brett Blundy Zoli de Ser ere a. /e/

Sent: Monday, 16 March 2009 5:12 PM

To: Carlie O'Regan; Brett Blundy

Subject: FW: "The Three O's: Great Teams" - May 13

Attachments: Invitation-The ThreeO's-May 1309. pdf

Standards and disciplines... cc. whatever you decide enforce them ,no matter what the short term cost.

Remove the impediments, that stop the team from being able to do their job well

Reload before you need to... doubling up

Take them out and get them pissed

Taking blood from the senior team... ee and sign their budgets in blood

Communicate, communicate, communicate.

Call Sanj, call Tracey

Brett Blundy

The customer is still the boss!

From: Carlie O'Regan

Sent: Monday, 16 March 2009 3:39 PM

To: Brett Blundy

Subject: FW: "The Three O's: Great Teams" - May 13

FYI (this is the panel you told David Beak you’d do}

From: Colleen Fong [mailto:cdfpromo@iprimus.com.au]

Sent: Wednesday, 11 March 2009 3:24 PM

To: Carlie O'Regan

Subject: "The Three O's: Great Teams” - May 13

Hi Carlie,

For Brett’s update, attached is Invitation sent to Members.

Regards,

Colleen

From: Colleen Fong [mailto:cdfpromo@iprimus.com.au]

Sent: Friday, February 27, 2009 6:41 PM

To: ‘Carlie O'Regan’

Subject: "The Three O's: Great Teams" - May 13

Hi Carlie,

We’re starting work on our Three O’s event for May 13. When time permits, can you please forward me a

backgrounder on Brett so I can pass on to Day Chair for her preparations.

Much thanks, 1

Carlie O'Regan

From: Brett Blundy

Sent: Sunday, 12 April 2009 3:07 PM

To: Brett Blundy; Carlie O'Regan

Subject: the three os- building great teams

Carlie

add with my other notes please

Lessons — the fish bowl story

Maintain great teams - Communicate ,communicate, communicate........... for retail there is no other secret, keep

telling everybody what is going on, what is it that is expected , what is important, through in some education and

inspiration and find lots of ways to do that

Maintain-Remove the impediments that stop our team from doing a good job... keep un complicating

everything, keep it simple

Building - Give people a go, particularly in the early days, we throw people in, rewarded on promotion not money, if

they made it then the result had double impact on morale, team spirit, culture.

Brett Blundy

The customer is still the boss!

Brett Blundy

From: Tracey Blundy [tblundy@brazin.com.au]

Sent: Wednesday, 29 April 2009 5:28 PM

To: Brett Blundy

Subject: RE: "The Three O's: Great Teams" - May 13

If someone wants to leave don’t talk them around.

Giving people a pay rise won't make them stay.

Attitude and culture over everything else will win every time

Youth is a great thing and capable of huge things if you have the time to invest in them

Lead from the front,..get in and do what they are doing. Walk in there shoes awhile and you will be amazed what you

will learn.

Always lead from the front, and always set the example. This way you keep the standards and the bench mark high.

Leaders don’t have time off; they don't have personal phone calls etc.

More important to be on board at the times people don't expect you to be Sat Sun ete

The importance of the unexpected visit.

Always say thanks and reward, What gets rewarded gets repeated

Always be honest it will pay off in the long run.

The importance of terminating poor performers and the effect that has on the rest of the team.

You can always promote before people are ready if there attitude is right

Importance of training, 3 month evaluation and appraisal cycle.

Appraisal cycle isn’t about pay rise it's about honest open feedback that will assist people to advance there career.

Everything must work around the culture, it doesn’t matter how good someone is if they don’t fit the culture of your

organization, as the culture is the most important thing you have

Invest in your good people, training, development and make sure you are in regular contact.

Succession planning is the key. The hardest thing to do is get rid of the person who is just clogging up the path, Just

filling a spot but not going anywhere. In the long run this is very costly.

“If you cant fire a person then so be it but ultimately you will pay the price in having to pick up the slack, deal with the