SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 1.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Customer-Centric Culture
SUMMARY: The document emphasizes the importance of creating a customer-centric culture, both for external and internal customers, to achieve outstanding satisfaction and profitability.
KEYWORDS: customer focus, moments of truth, internal customer satisfaction, customer-centric culture
---

Once again, make customers the focus for your

team and we'll be breeding an exceptional culture.

We often speak about Moments of Truth for our

customers ... those critical make or break split-

second experiences that help them decide whether

this feels right or not. Indeed, many a Managers’

Meeting and Training Session has been spent

defining these so that we can work on improving

them for our customers.

Page 28

BRAZIN MAGIC

However it’s fair to say that we probably spend more

time thinking about Moments of Truth for the external

customer than we do defining the Moments of Truth

for our internal customers ... our team and the team

in other departments.

Yet, the same principles for achieving

outstanding customer satisfaction apply just

as much for our team as they do our

customers.

Without doubt, the tone and pace for the day is set

by the morning call to each store. How easy it is to

take this for granted ... it’s just part of the culture, it’s

what we do! Yet, when we examine our motives for

making the calls, understand the outcomes we

want, it suddenly becomes clear that we could be

achieving so much more.

First and foremost is the genuine care factor.

It would be so easy to feel isolated as a

country, regional or even a small store, if

you didn’t have that friendly voice on the

other end of the phone wishing you a good

morning and connecting you to the business

on a daily basis!

It’s also a quick and easy way for us to tell that all

our stores are opened for the day ... that we do

have all hands on deck and that everyone has

arrived at work safely. Simple, but important. Lastly

of course, it’s your opportunity to discuss the plans

for the day, to hear about their priorities, to ensure

that everyone knows and is focused on achieving

the budget, to share information and to encourage

a positive, winning attitude for the day.

Page 29

BRAZIN MAGIC

Brett’s expectation of us is unswerving - that

until we can respect and care for our feam

and our people, they will not respect and

care for us.

Make sure that wherever you are, you’ve

greeted everyone in your team. If you’re in

The Support Centre, smile and wave to those

on the phone ... it only takes a minute and

the next time you need something done

quickly, people will fall over themselves to

help! Be a satisfaction giver, no matter what

your role or level of responsibility ... people

are watching exactly what you do! If you

pick up papers on the floor, so will they. If

you treat people the right way, so will they.

We gauge our customer satisfaction results

directly by our profitability. The more

profitable we are, the more wanted our

service is - both internal and external.

It is an absolute must that each General Manager

personally and immediately takes each customer

complaint - whether over the phone or sent in by

mail. Not our Assistants, not anyone else we might

choose fo delegate the job too, but us. We must be

interested in hearing the feedback that is so vital to

our business and to uncover the deeper issues that

complaints will always highlight.

Mystery Shopping Visits have grown fo be an

important part of the culture - we take them

seriously, we learn about the snapshot that was the

customer's experience and we took for opportunities

to recognise and reward positive results.

Page 30

BRAZIN MAGIC

Brett’s view is always fhat the customer's

evaluation of our service is always more

important than our own.

This, by the way, is something we’ve

developed a legendary reputation for! The

power of 4000 team members getting

behind a promotion is awesome and blows

away even the highest expectations of our

suppliers.

That’s how we deliver customer satisfaction

to our suppliers; by exceeding expectations.

Each of us understands how incredibly important

supplier relationships are to our business. Few of us

understand that it is so much more complex than

simply selecting the right product.

Simply asking for a discount is not what it’s about ...

like anything to do with providing outstanding

customer satisfaction, we have got to look at things

from our supplier’s persoective. What do they want?

Chances are, they want to sell volume and so, we

start the ball rolling by selecting a product that we

believe we can do something with.

Make no mistake ... this is about “we, the

team” ... the supplier, the buyers and the

retail team all getting behind a promotion

and maximising every single possible sale.

It’s about every team member talking it up,

ensuring we are constantly promoting it; it’s

about posters and signage; but most

importantly, it’s about motivation and desire.

Page 31

BRAZIN MAGIC

Let’s assume that we've sold 10,000 units. What has

happened? We've been able to exceed the

supplier’s expectations ... we’ve been able to make

him and us more profit ... we’ve added thousands to

our sales turnover ... and we’ve proven to our team

the enormous capabilities of teamwork in action.

Next time, we go back to that supplier and in light of

our achievement, ask for say, an improved margin

of 2% rather than 1%. If he says yes - we’ve won, but

we have to continue to deliver. If he says no, we

simply go on to the next supplier and show them

what we were able to achieve.

That’s how we get better margins, that’s how

we give our suppliers awesome customer

satisfaction ... by constantly proving over-

delivery as a company, we can’t lose.

Where it breaks down though, is when the retail

team don't back up the job the buying team and

the supplier has done. Posters, signage, special

badges, exciting windows are not enough - if the

retail team don’t make it successful, it won’t be