SOURCE: The Three Os_Great Teams_2009.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Team Building and Culture
SUMMARY: The passage discusses the importance of building a great culture and great teams, setting standards and disciplines, and investing in good people through training, development, and regular communication.
KEYWORDS: team building, company culture, employee engagement, performance management, continuous improvement
---

My experience is to start with building a great culture and great teams

seem to follow.

Standards and disciplines... Whatever you decide, enforce them, no

matter what the short term cost.

Create ways for people to win and they will keep winning. You will get

that snowball effect. Everybody wants to be somebody

Have fun.

e Slave for a day

@ National PJ day

e The Human Wash Bag

yes the team out and get them pissed. Find any excuse — launching new

initiatives

os

Communicate ,communicate, communicate........... for retail there is no

other secret, keep telling everybody what is going on, what is it that is

expected , what is important, throw in some education and inspiration

and find lots of ways to do that

Give people a go, particularly in the early days, we throw people in,

rewarded on promotion not money, if they made it then the result had

double impact on morale, team spirit, culture.

Youth is a great thing and capable of huge things if you have the time to

invest in them

Lead from the front...get in and do what they are doing. Walk in their

shoes awhile and you will be amazed what you will learn.

Always lead from the front, and always set the example. This way you

keep the standards and the bench mark high. Leaders don’t have time

off; they don’t have personal phone calls etc.

More important to be on board at the times people don’t expect you to

be Sat Sun etc

The importance of the unexpected visit.

The importance of terminating poor performers and the effect that has

on the rest of the team.

Everything must work around the culture, it doesn’t matter how good

someone is if they don’t fit the culture of your organization, as the

culture is the most important thing you have

Invest in your good people, training, development and make sure you are

in regular contact.

Rock up with a drink, food and ready to help when people are going that

extra step. They will love you for it.

A Culture of continuous improvement... never let people think they have

made it, find the next challenge.

The best ideas are the simplest ones; don’t let people complicate your

business because they will.

* How you manage international store growth?

* How are you trading in this climate?

® Are you still rolling out new stores?

GREAT TEAMS

Those of you who know me well will know that | am as

surprised as anyone at the size and diversity of the team we

run, 6000 people through 6 different retail brands and 6

countries as far away as Russia where we now operate 50

stores and a team of 213 today.

| subscribe to both the Jack Welsh structure of winners and

losers and people differentiation and the Sam Walton

homespun, motivational, servant leader style.

Under the team building, if I have learned one thing it is that you build a team one person

at a time ~ you can’t think about how do I keep 8000 people focused, motivated and results

orientated. You have to think about it as one person at a time, one activity at a time and if

you can get that right, you'll get the second and third right.

Having get-togethers work — having a purpose - launch of new product, acknowledgement

of good thigns that have happened.

It seems to be the hardest thing in the word to do but we must do it - if you don’t walk

your office, warehouse, DC, manufacturing plants, you get less of a result and cannot

handle the difficult time that might come i.e. disruptive unions and people.

Carlie O'Regan EN

From: Tracey Blundy [tblundy@brazin.com.au]

Sent: Wednesday, 29 April 2009 5:28 PM

To: Brett Blundy

Subject: RE: "The Three O's: Great Teams" - May 13

if someone wants to leave don't talk them around.

Giving people a pay rise won't make them stay.

Attitude and culture over everything else will win every time

Youth is a great thing and capable of huge things if you have the time to invest in them

Lead from the front...get in and do what they are doing. Walk in there shoes awhile and you will be amazed what you

will learn.

Always lead from the front, and always set the example. This way you keep the standards and the bench mark high.

Leaders don't have time off; they don’t have personal phone calls etc.

More important to be on board at the times people don't expect you to be Sat Sun etc

The importance of the unexpected visit.

Always say thanks and reward. What gets rewarded gets repeated

Always be honest it will pay off in the Jong run.

The importance of terrninating poor performers and the effect that has on the rest of the team.

You can always promote before people are ready if there attitude is right

Importance of training, 3 month evaluation and appraisal cycle.

Appraisal cycle isn't about pay rise it's about honest open feedback that will assist people to advance there career.

Everything must work around the culture, it doesn’t matter how good someone is if they don’t fit the culture of your

organization, as the culture is the most important thing you have

Invest in your good people, training, development and make sure you are in regular contact.

Succession planning is the key. The hardest thing to do is get rid of the person who is just clogging up the path. Just

filling a spot but not going anywhere. In the long run this is very costly.

“If you cant fire a person then so be it but ultimately you will pay the price in having to pick up the slack, deal with the

issues or miss your budget and all that will be harder on you then dismissing them.

Have fun.

Understand that different areas need different skills, ways to manage etc. (warehouse vs. stores)