SOURCE: The Big Idea Accelerate!.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Organizational Change Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses principles for implementing a strategy network within an organization to drive flexible and adaptable change.
KEYWORDS: strategy network, dual operating system, volunteer army, organizational change, accelerated innovation
---

realistic. That means not large numbers of full-time

or even part-time appointments but volunteers, And

10% of the managerial and employee population is

both plenty and possible.

-Awant-to and a get-to—not just a have-to—

mind-set. You cannot mobilize voluntary energy

and brainpower unless people want to be change

agents and feel they have permission to do so, The

spirit of volunteerism—the desire to work with oth-

ers for a shared purpose—energizes the network.

+ Head and heart, not just head. People won’t

want to doa day job in the hierarchy and a night job

in the network—which is essentially how a dual op-

erating system works—if you appeal only to logic,

with numbers and business cases. You must ap-

peal to their emotions, too. You must speak to their

genuine desire to contribute to positive change and

to take an enterprise in strategically smart ways into

a better future, giving greater meaning and purpose

to their work.

+Much more leadership, not just more man-

agement. At the core of a successful hierarchy is

competent management. A strategy network, by

contrast, needs lots of leadership, which means it

operates with different processes and language and

expectations. The game is all about vision, oppor-

tunity, agility, inspired action, and celebration—not

project management, budget reviews, reporting

relationships, compensation, and accountability to

aplan.

+ Two systems, one organization. The net-

work and the hierarchy must be inseparable, with a

constant flow of information and activity between

them—an approach that works in part because the

volunteers in the network all work within the hi-

erarchy. (See the exhibit “Two Structures, One Or-

ganization.”) The dual operating system is not two

supersilos, like the old Xerox PARC (an amazing stra-

tegic innovation machine) and Xerox (which pretty

much ignored PARC and the commercial opportuni-

ties it uncovered).

Governed by these principles, the strategy net-

work can be incredibly flexible and adaptable; the

accelerators can drive problem solving, collabora-

tion, and creativity; and the people doing this work—

the volunteer army~—will be focused, committed,

and passionate,

The network is like a solar system, with a guid-

ing coalition as the sun, strategic initiatives as plan-

ets, and subinitiatives as moons (or even satellites).

This structure is dynamic: Initiatives and subinitia-

tives coalesce and disband as needed. Although

November 2012 Harvard Business Review 49

THE BIG IDEA ACCELERATI

Paul Davidson, a sales executive for a B2B technology firm

(?'ve disguised his name and some company details), had

seen sales growth slip for a number of years. When his

division started to lose market share, he commissioned

an outside study, which recommended both a new strat-

egy and an implementation process that Davidson judged

to be too rigid and complex for the kind of rapid change

needed. So he persuaded his division head and the CEO

to support a more dynamic approach to change.

Davidson knew much of what he wanted:

a less costly sales operation, a broader

range of distributors, the ability to move

into the marketplace faster, and more

focus on high-growth Asian markets. To

get started on making those changes, he

convened the sales division’s executive

committee for a daylong meeting and

charged it with creating a statement of op-

portunity. | can’t share the statement (my

team worked with Davidson), but here are

its main points:

+ We have an opportunity to increase our

sales growth by 50% or more in two years,

and to become the number one sales orga-

nization in the industry.

+ This is possible because (1) customer

needs are changing, requiring competitors

to change (but it is not guaranteed that

they will change fast enough), (2) markets

in developing countries are starting to

explode, and (3) we are not operating at

peak efficiency within the company.

+ We have not changed fast enough

to keep up with external demands, even

though we have great people. We are

capable of changing faster—we’ve done it

in the past.

+ We can Create a very successful field

organization that we’re deeply proud of.

Davidson put the eight accelerators

to work for his company. First he pulled

together an “urgency team” made up of 20

volunteers from across the field organiza-

tion who had credibility and who had em-

braced the opportunity statement—intel-

lectually and emotionally—as soon as they

heard it, This group agreed to an ambitious

goal: getting buy-in from at least 50%

of the 1,500-member sales division. The

urgency team spent three months devising

dozens of ideas for forging a broad under-

standing of, passion for, and commitment

to the opportunity. It organized meetings,

created support materials, and built an in-

tranet portal filled with information, videos,

blogs, and stories about the ways in which

individuals on the sales team were already

changing.

Next the urgency team, working with the

executive committee, invited employees

to apply for a role in the guiding coali-

tion. The application form asked why they

wanted to be on the GC, how they planned

to manage the additional workload, and

more. About 210 people applied, and 36

were selected, mostly—but not entirely—

from middle management and below. They

functioned without a formal leader, though

a facilitator organized meetings and phone

calls. Despite initial awkwardness about

the range of formal status across the GC,

a new organizational logic arose: For any

given activity, the people with the relevant

information, connections, motivation, and

skills took the lead.

With input from top management, the

outside study, and colleagues throughout

the organization, the GC developed a vision

and a strategy. The vision statement is con-

fidential, but it said roughly this: “within

12 months we will be using intermediaries

successfully more than we ever have; our

growth rate in emerging markets will be at

least twice what it is today; we will have

developed a discipline around innovation;

and decision-making time will be cut in

half, from a month to two weeks. We will

be a proud, passionate group, still gaining

momentum to make us the most admired