SOURCE: The Big Idea Accelerate!.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Strategic Vision and Implementation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of creating a strategic vision with emotional resonance to inspire a volunteer army and accelerate movement towards the vision.
KEYWORDS: strategic vision, emotional resonance, volunteer army, implementation, accelerating change
---

goals but framed them with emotional resonance,

using words such as “proud,” “passionate,” and “ad-

mired,” Asa result, the group vowed to work better

with partners, double growth in emerging markets,

THE BIG IDEA ACCELERATE!

HBR.ORG

Sufficient urgency around a strategically

rational and emotionally exciting

opportunity is the bedrock upon which

all else is built.

innovate constantly, and halve the time it took to

make decisions.

Next the GC identified the five strategic initia-

tives that its members deemed critical to achieving

the vision and that they wanted very much to work

on, including “innovation in attacking growing mar-

kets.” Inspired by the vision and guided by the initia-

tives that flowed logically from it, everyone within

the network became an author of strategic change.

That’s very powerful.

To keep the two parts of a dual operating system

connected and aligned, we have found, the GC must

show a draft of the vision and initiatives to the or-

ganization’s executive committee for comments.

A well-functioning GC will treat the committee’s

comments as highly valuable input but won’t auto-

matically accept them as commands.

4. Communicate the vision and the strategy

to create buy-in and attract a growing volun-

teer army. A vividly formulated, high-stakes vi-

sion and strategy, promulgated by a GC in ways that

are both memorable and authentic, will prompt

people to discuss them without the cynicism that

often greets messages cascading down the hierarchy.

Done right, with creativity, such communications

can go viral, attracting employees who buy in to the

ambition of the message and begin to share a com-

mitment to it.

This point tends to prompt skepticism from

people who have seen attempts to motivate a work-

force fail. But if the right messages are sent from

a passionate GC to colleagues who feel a sense of

urgency, the volunteer army will start to gather. I’ve

seen it happen. Motivation is an issue when people

are forced to work in boxes within a hierarchy where

workers become bored, new ideas aren’t welcome,

and managers aren’t effective. And it does not take

many volunteers to get a network launched: Again,

10% of the total employee population will do. That’s

500 people in an organization of 5,000.

54 Harvard Business Review November 2012

5. Accelerate movement toward the vision

and the opportunity by ensuring that the net-

work removes barriers. Perhaps a sales rep has

gotten customer complaints about bureaucratic

hang-ups. He doesn’t know how to fix the problem

and doesn’t have time to think about it. Someone

in the network gets wind of this and says, “I’ve

seen that. I volunteer. I'll put together a group and

attack it” That person writes up a description and

sends it out to the volunteer army, and five people

immediately step forward. They set up a call to be-

gin learning why this is happening, figuring out how

to remove the barrier, and designing a solution—

a better CRM system, perhaps. The team probably

includes someone from IT who has technical exper-

tise and can help identify where the money for the

new system might come from. The team works with

additional volunteers who have relevant informa-

tion—from whatever quarter may be germane~to

act quickly and efficiently. The time between the

first call and this point might be two weeks—a model

of accelerated action. The network team settles on

a practical solution that properly supports the sales

team. Then its members take their thinking to the

CIO, who gives feedback and may offer the budget

and the resources.

Design and implementation occur in the network

and are instituted within the hierarchy. And if the

network is truly operating hand-in-glove with the

hierarchy, the people in the hierarchy are champing

at the bit to get the new CRM system.

6. Celebrate visible, significant short-term

wins. A strategy network’s credibility won’t last long

without confirmation that its decisions and actions

are actually benefiting the organization. Skeptics

will erect obstacles unless they see proof that the

dual operating system is creating real results. And

people have only so much patience, so proof must

come quickly. To ensure success, the best short-term

wins should be obvious, unambiguous, and clearly

THE BIG IDEA ACCELERATE!

HBR.ORG

related to the vision. Celebrating those wins will

buoy the volunteer army and prompt more employ-

ees to buy in. Success breeds success.

If wins are not forthcoming, that in itself is use-

ful feedback: Something is wrong. A committed GC,

with many eyes and ears to take in the reality of the

situation and with no status or territory to protect,

can quickly tweak either the decisions it has made or

the methods used for implementing those decisions.

knowledge, relationships, credibility, and influence.

They understand the need for change—they are

often the first to see threats or opportunities—and

have the zeal to implement it.

Itis vital that this army be made up of individuals

who bring energy, commitment, and genuine enthu-

siasm. They are not a bunch of grunts carrying out

orders from the brass, Rather, they are change lead-

ers. Whereas hierarchies require management to

The volunteer army is not a bunch of grunts

carrying out orders from the brass. Its

members are change leaders who bring

energy, commitment, and enthusiasm.

7. Never let up. Keep learning from experi-

ence. Don’t declare victory too soon. Organiza-

tions must continue to carry through on strategic

initiatives and create new ones, to adapt to shifting

business environments, and thus to enhance their

competitive positions, When an organization takes

its foot off the gas, cultural and political resistance

arise.

Here, again, is why urgency is so central to the

strategy part of the dual operating system. It keeps

people going. Ifit is weak to begin with, or neglected,

the volunteer army’s determination will flag, and

the temptation to slow down or stop will become ir-

resistible. The volunteers will start focusing on their

work in the hierarchy, and the hierarchy will domi-

nate once more.