SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 3.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Leadership and Company Culture
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of leadership in driving company culture and success through inspiring, empowering, and leading by example.
KEYWORDS: Leadership, Company Culture, Influence, Commitment, Empowerment
---

BRAZIN MAGIC

Leadership - we are the message ...

Leadership is not the goal, it’s a way to

reaching our goals effectively. To lead is to

give, to serve, to help others.

Leadership is our ability to influence another person

to take a positive course of action, but it isn’t just

about us as leaders directing our team to do this or

do that. That’s an autocratic style of management

which has no place in Brazin where results are driven

through the success of our team.

Instead, true leadership resides within us, for

we are the message that we deliver. We are

the message.

lf our actions are not congruent with the

words we speak, we lose our credibility as

leaders, but if our actions are in alignment

with the words we speak, people believe in

us and we have the power fo influence

thousands.

Be the person that others believe in. Be the

leader with the hunger to succeed ... be the

leader with the fire in the belly, but also be

the leader that recognises that desire to

succeed within others. Be the leader that

fosters strong relationships, be the leader

that puts a positive spin on a negative

situation, be the leader who adds value to

every conversation and who leaves their

team feeling inspired and excited.

Page 88

BRAZIN MAGIC

Brett has always set the pace, the urgency and the

desire to achieve at Brazin and his absolute

commitment to success has cemented Brazin as one

of the top five retailers in Australia.

It is our role to pick up the baton and run

with it ... to continue to ensure that as we

get larger, our ability to commit to the

culture, to live and to foster it in others sets

the standard for all future growth. We waste

money when we employ the wrong people

and our culture is diluted, dissipated and

brought down.

Our job as leaders of Brazin is simple and the.

leadership messages from Brett have extended

throughout this Handbook.

Understand the culture and the core values of Brazin

and exemplify them on a daily basis. Uncover the

problems, don’t wait for them to bowl us over - be

proactive in all we do and make over delivery our

motto. We do or do not, there is no room for try in

our company. We focus on our customers, we've

put the care factor back into managing people and

creating powerful feams, our attitudes are positive

and encouraging and because we do what we

have committed to, we will achieve the results we

seek.

Be proud of who we are and all we stand for,

defend our culture fiercely and use your influence as

leaders to create other leaders. It is now longer just

a story about you - it’s a story about the future of

your people ... live it well.

Page 89