SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 2.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and Leadership
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of leadership in shaping organizational culture, where a leader's attitude and behavior set the tone for the team.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, leadership, attitude, behavior, team dynamics
---

day, but they won't have been a burden to you

during the day. Neither will they have been a

burden to anyone else.

Your team take their lead from you. If you

are positive and upbeat - so will they be.

But, if you are miserable - so will they be. If

you are cranky - so will they be. If you

criticise your Manager - so will they. If you

share your displeasure - so will they.

So once again, choose the attitude you

would like your team to choose. One of

Brett’s favourite sayings is .. “if it is to be, it’s

up to me” - it’s always up to us!

The time to be most positive is wnen you are feeling

the most negative. That’s the true test of your

professionalism. The time to be the most enthusiastic

is when you are feeling the most concerned, The

time to be the most action oriented is wnen you are

feeling most defensive and excuse focused. The

time to be the most open and supportive is when

you are feeling the most frustrated.

Thoughts always precede an action. If you want a

magical team, put the magic back in you and your

attitude. The strength of our culture rests on your

ability to do that.

Page 52

BRAZIN MAGIC

The perception is the reality. No-one sees or

understands that you worked back until

11.00pm for the last three nights in a row, but

what they will see is you walking in the door

10 minutes late. They won’t see that there is

another function tonight, but they will see

another late morning tomorrow.

Surprise, surprise ... what you’ll then see is

them coming in late the day after that. Why

wouldn’t they - they model themselves on

your behaviour!

We are not saying don’t take time to recoup. What

our culture expects though, is that you will recognise

your responsibility to your team and to the business

and take time when it is not going to have an

impact. If you are going to have a sleep-in ... have

a sleep-in and don‘t come in till 10.30am, That way,

the perception of our team is that you have been to

a meeting or on a store visit and our standards won’‘t

be compromised, nor the messages mixed.

Want people to start earlier, finish later? Come in

every day at 8.00am ... chances are, you'll soon

have a department that is buzzing with productivity

at 8.30am. Want your team to be better presented?

Make the effort yourself, comment positively on the

changes you see and with little effort and fuss on

your behalf, you will achieve what you set out to do.

Want to stop the gossip? Simple ... stop your gossip.

Say that we actually don't know the full story and as

we wouldn't gossip about each other, we won't do

it to anyone else - it’s not the culture.

Page 53

BRAZIN MAGIC

It’s not the culture. It’s not the culture. Those are

words Brett desperately needs to hear more

frequently - from all of us as Senior Managers. Don’t

let a comment pass, don’t let a standard slip, don’t

let something wrong pass you by ... we are counting

on you to keep the attitudes positive, the culture

healthy. You have chosen to take on additional

responsibility, you are paid to take on additional

responsibility and as an executive in Brazin ... the

culture is the responsibility of each of us.

Look for the times when you know people

aren't being positive and turn the

conversation around.

When the smokers have gathered at the

front of the building, join them. We know

that it’s easier for a negative conversation to

take place out there ... so change the tone

... seta new expeciation.

When something has gone wrong ... when

people are under pressure, join them.

Teach a new way to look aft things ...

change the tone ... set a new expectation.

When we are not achieving budget, when

the morale is low, look for the good things

and build from there ... change the tone ...

set a new expectation.

Broadcast good news - how much nicer is it to be

able to say ... I've got good news. If none springs

readily to mind, then go hunting! Think about the

reasons we have to be happy and share them. A

sense of humour lightens the toughest, darkest

situations and makes it easy for our team to apply

themselves with renewed positivity and momentum!

Page 54

BRAZIN MAGIC

Take out the word impossible from your vocabulary.

All of us know that it simply means that we haven't

found the right way yet. Put a positive attitude back

in its place ... see the situation in a different light ...

come at the problem from a new perspective and

all of a sudden, it doesn’t seem as big as it was.

Each of us can be guilty of taking our

yesterdays, our failures into today ... but

they don’t belong there.

Recognise that you are not your past.

Recognise that every one at some point has

faced adversity along the way to achieving _ .

something worthwhile.

Our culture teaches that it’s not how many

times you stumble and fall that matters, it’s

how many times you get back up that

counts.

Did you learn from your mistake? Were you

able to prevent some-one else from making

the same one? Have you looked for the

lesson you needed to learn? Has it helped

you become yourself at your very best?

We need our executives to be 110% professional ...

to always do the right thing, without thinking about it,

even when under pressure. A professional thinks

about the role they carry out ... the position they

hold ... the people they influence ... the results they

must achieve ... the way in which they can increase

their value to the company.

Page 55

BRAZIN MAGIC