SOURCE: The Big Idea Accelerate!.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Organizational Transformation
SUMMARY: The author advocates for a fundamentally new form of organization that can adapt to the increasing speed of business and the need for agility.
KEYWORDS: organizational agility, hierarchical systems, human potential, leadership development, strategy consulting
---

to get it going. Think of it as a vast, purposeful ex-

pansion in scale, scope, and power of the smaller,

informal networks that accomplish tasks faster and

cheaper than hierarchies can.

The system offers a solution to problems we have

known about for some time. People have been writ-

ing for at least 20 years about the increasing speed

of business and the need for organizations to be

quicker and much more agile. But who has been able

58 Harvard Business Review November 2012

to pull that off? The situation won’t be improved by

tweaking the usual methodology or adding turbo-

chargers to a single hierarchical system. That’s like

trying to rebuild an elephant so that it can be both an

elephant and a panther. It’s never going to happen.

People have been writing for 50 years about un-

leashing human potential and directing the energy

to big business challenges. But who, outside the

world of start-ups, has succeeded? So few do be-

cause they’re working within a system that basically

asks most people to shut up, take orders, and do

their jobs in a repetitive way.

People have been talking for a quarter of a cen-

tury about the need for more leaders, because an

organization’s top two or three executives can no

longer do it all. But very few jobs in traditional hier-

archical organizations provide the information and

the experience needed to become a leader. And the

solutions available~courses on leadership, for ex-

ample—are wholly inadequate, because most devel-

opment of complex perspectives and skills happens

on the job, not in the classroom.

People have been grumbling for years about the

strategy consulting industry, whose reports fail to

solve the problem of finding and implementing strat-

egies to better fit a changing environment. A consul-

tant’s report—all thought and little heart, forecast-

ing where you can flourish in two or five or 10 years,

produced by smart outsiders, and acted on ina linear

way by a limited number of appointed people—has

little or no chance of success in a faster-moving,

more uncertain world.

The inevitable failures of single operating systems

hurt us now. They are going to kill us in the future.

The 21st century will force us all to evolve toward

a fundamentally new form of organization. I believe

that I have basically described that form here. We

still have much to learn. Nevertheless, the compa-

nies that get there first, because they act now, willsee

immediate and long-term success—for shareholders,

customers, employees, and themselves, Those that

lag will suffer greatly, if they survive atall. 0

HBR Reprint R1211B

john P. Kotter is the Konosuke Matsushita Professor

of Leadership, Emeritus at Harvard Business School

and the author of 17 books, including Leading Change (reis-

sued with a new preface by Harvard Business Review Press,

2012), The Heart of Change (with Dan S. Cohen; reissued

by Harvard Business Review Press, 2072), and (with Lorne

A, Whitehead) Buy-In: Saving Your Good Idea from Getting

Shot Down (Harvard Business Review Press, 2010). He is

a cofounder of Kotter International.