SOURCE: The Brazin Culture Handbook_Part 2.pdf
SUBFOLDER: The Brazin Culture Handbook
TOPIC: Employee Management and Culture
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of maintaining high standards, addressing issues promptly, and creating a positive, motivating work culture for employees.
KEYWORDS: employee management, workplace culture, standards, accountability, team leadership
---

BRAZIN MAGIC

Time and time again we have said that your team is

a reflection of you and your standards. Brett has

asked for the very highest standards in Brazin, simply

because he knows what is possible to achieve. We

also know, if we are truthful with each other that too

may times we let our standards drop - for no real

reason other than taking the easy way out. Yet,

every time you do allow a standard to slip, you are

doing yourself and the team an enormous disservice.

Next time it is much harder to follow up, the

unspoken question always being ... why didn’t you

say something before. Sometimes it gets so bad that

we will only mention a marked drop in standards

through the formal appraisal and wonder why we

haven't been effective as a team leader.

Nip problems in the bud, immediately. It’s

so much easier to correct a small deviation

than it is to have to defend your actions to

an astonished, horrified team member that’s

asking ... but why didn’t you tell me!

Other companies fear the legal system, we fear our

management skills because they are the things that

let our team down. How many times have we

employed somebody fantastic, only to have them

leave six months later ... muttering that it is nothing

like what they’ve been told. Their Manuals haven‘t

been signed, they haven‘t been given their three

monthly appraisal, they've been promised this,

they’ve been promised that and yet, in all that time

they’ve seen an Area Manager once and not even

spoken to a State Manager. The worrying thing is

that we then say ... they were no good anyway.

Page 44

BRAZIN MAGIC

Being the Manager of a team means. truly

understanding that the buck stops with you. If you

hear gossip or negativity, even from another

department ... it’s your responsibility to stop it. If you

see an Area or State Manager spending time in the

Centre drinking coffee or shopping, rather than

getting on with the job that is to be done in stores ...

it’s your responsibility to stop it. If you see people

making personal calls, sending personal emails ... it’s

your responsibility to stop it.

“Wherever you see disunity,

create harmony

Wherever you see disloyalty,

create culture

Wherever you see negativity,

create pride

Wherever you see apathy,

create excitement

Wherever you see unwillingness,

create motivation

Wherever you see laziness,

create friendly competition

Wherever you see rivalry,

create unity

Wherever you see conflict,

create a team”

We are responsible to produce results through the

efforts of other people ... not to put impediments in

their way! Teach your team how to follow up, teach

them the value of planning, teach them that

delegating doesn’t mean losing control - instead it

means gaining control and teach them how to

recognise the achievements of each other.

Page 45

BRAZIN MAGIC

How much time do you spend in your week planning

to recognise the efforts of your team? In all honesty,

most of us would spend less than an hour ... whilst at

the same time agreeing with Brett that if we reward

the right behaviour it will be repeated!

It’s not about saying thank you for a great

day, although that is important. It’s about

recognising the achievements ... large and

small ... of all your team and commenting

favourably and specifically on each. Praise

can be meaningless unless you take the

time needed to ensure that team member

feels actual pride in their accomplishments.

Form letters - congratulations on a great result letters

- look pretty silly when they are all stuck together on

the back door of a reserve! How much more

thought and effort could we put into a letter, when

we think about the thought and effort from our team

that went into those results we are congratulating.

Watch what happens when the Weekly Memo hits

the stores. Notice that the second area to be read is

the Magic Moments page, each person eagerly

scanning it for their name. Often you won‘t hear the

comments ... | wonder why | wasn’t included - | was

promoted at the same time as them, | did this for a

customer too ... but you will soon see the results.

Recognise that once again, all our actions have a

consequence! Recognition of our team is a vital

part of our culture - so look for the ways to make

people feel special ... and make this part of your life

at work, everyday.

Page 46

BRAZIN MAGIC

Being a good team leader is not about how

well you speak; how articulate you are; how

educated and knowledgeable ... in our

culture, being a good team leader is first

and foremost about helping your team

exceed the results they are expected to

achieve.

We achieve this through an ability to focus on the

needs of each one of our feam members as

individuals and put them first. What do they need

from us to help them achieve those results ... how

can we improve their confidence ... wnat areas can

we retrain them in. Gain their commitment and their

willingness, for then you have two hearts working

together and the work becomes a downhill run,

rather than an uphill battle.

It’s about making the time for each person ... yes, of

course you‘re busy, but then again who isn’t! When

it all boils down, the work of your team is your priority;

it’s about making the commitment to them and

seeing it through. Making the commitment as a

Senior Manager means spending more time in the

planning and follow up than in the actual doing -

and that too, is part of our culture. Not so much

planning that it actually paralyses you from taking

action and not so much follow up that you drive

your team insane ... but once again it’s your

management skills that dictate whether you are all