SOURCE: THE_MAP–Twelve_Questions–Jim_Collins.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Jim Collins
TOPIC: Building a Great Company
SUMMARY: This text outlines Jim Collins' research and framework for building an enduring, great company through a series of 12 guiding questions.
KEYWORDS: enduring great company, leadership framework, business principles, company building
---

[Document: THE_MAP–Twelve_Questions–Jim_Collins.pdf]

Jim Collins

THE MAP:

Twelve Questions

for Building a

Great Company

A GOOD TO GREAT®

Strategic Tool

“Greatness is not a function of circumstance. Greatness, it turns out,

is largely a matter of conscious choice, and discipline.”

Background on THE MAP – A Note from Jim

The origins of THE MAP trace all the way back to when I would take a full quarter century of work to satisfy my

first began my research and teaching career at the Stanford curiosity.

Graduate School of Business. One day, as I sat down to

After decades of research and multiple books, I began to

craft a new syllabus for the course on entrepreneurship and

get questions from people who wanted to engage with the

small-business management, I impulsively typed out a

entire body of work in a systematic sequence. The questions

course overview that challenged my students with a lofty

were along the following lines: “As a leadership team, where

aspiration. Instead of focusing solely on the fundamentals

should we begin?” “How do all the ideas across the differ-

of launching a start-up venture and managing a small to

ent books fit together?” “Is there a best order in which to

mid-sized business, I reframed the entire course around the

read your work or engage with the concepts?” “Should we

question of what it would take to build an enduring great

proceed book by book or concept by concept?” “Is there a

company. I fell in love with the question. And I felt

master map of principles across all the books?”

energized by the vision of my students doing something

noble and audacious with their lives. If they were going to Reflecting on these questions, I realized that, in a sense, I’d

become entrepreneurs, I wanted them to create some of the actually been doing one giant multi-decade research project

most successful companies in the world, companies that that came out in installments, book by book. I decided to

would make a distinctive and positive impact, companies cull the most essential concepts across all the research

worthy of admiration, companies that would endure. But I studies, settling upon the twelve most fundamental princi-

also realized I had a lot of work to do. I just kept looking at ples. I then worked to place them in proper sequence,

the phrase “enduring great company” and thinking to linked together in an overall framework, that would define a

myself, “Wow, I don’t know anything about that, but I’m path that leaders could follow to create a great company.

going to figure it out!” My goal was to distill my life’s work on great companies into

a single “map” that could fit on a page.

And that sparked a passionate effort to discover and teach

what makes great companies tick. Little did I know that it

www.jimcollins.com

© Copyright 2022 by Jim Collins, All Rights Reserved.

Jim Collins THE MAP: Twelve Questions for Building a Great Company 2

How to Use this Tool Distinctive Impact

I’ve constructed a series of twelve questions that serve as a A truly great enterprise makes such a unique contribution

mechanism of disciplined thought for you and your team. to the communities it touches and does its work with such

Each question corresponds to one of the twelve input unadulterated excellence that, if it were to disappear, it

principles in THE MAP. Along with each question, I’ve would leave a gaping hole that couldn’t be easily filled by

included directed readings that correspond to the underly- any other institution on the planet. If your company went

ing principle. You can use the twelve questions as an away, who would miss it and why? This does not require

individual exercise to learn and reflect on the principles, being big; think of a small but fabulous local restaurant that

doing the related reading as you move through THE MAP. would be terribly missed if it disappeared. Big does not

To get the most out of this tool, I encourage you to work equal great, and great does not equal big.

through twelve questions as a team; one possibility is to

engage as a team with one question per month for a year. Lasting Endurance

A truly great organization prospers over a long period of

What Defines “Great” time, beyond any great idea, market opportunity, technology

THE MAP has both inputs and outputs. The inputs delin- cycle, or well-funded program. When clobbered by setbacks,

eate the path to building a great company, composed of a it finds a way to bounce back stronger than before. A great

sequence of fundamental principles we derived in our enterprise transcends dependence on any single extraordi-

research. The outputs define what a great company is, not nary leader; if your organization cannot be great without

how you get there. you, then it is not yet truly great.

I’ve designed the twelve questions to lead you through the Finally, I caution against ever believing that your organiza-

inputs (the path). Before jumping into the twelve questions, tion has achieved an end-state of greatness. To be built to

let me define the outputs (the destination). There are three last means embracing the idea that good to great is never

criteria that define whether an organization has attained done. No matter how far we have gone, or how much we

greatness (1) superior results, (2) distinctive impact, have achieved, we are merely good relative to what we can

(3) lasting endurance. do next. Greatness is an inherently dynamic process, not an

end point. The moment you think of yourself as great, your

Superior Results slide toward mediocrity will have already begun.

In business, performance is defined by financial results—

return on invested capital—and achievement of corporate

purpose. In the social sectors, performance is defined by

results and efficiency in delivering on the social mission.

But whether you’re operating in business or the social

sectors, you must achieve top-flight results. To use an