SOURCE: The_most_unexpected_hospital_billing_development_ever_refunds.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Patient Experience Improvement
SUMMARY: Geisinger Health System offers refunds to patients who are unhappy with any aspect of their hospital experience, with the goal of improving patient satisfaction.
KEYWORDS: patient experience, refunds, hospital performance, service recovery, customer-centric
---

[Document: The_most_unexpected_hospital_billing_development_ever_refunds.pdf]

someone’s hand,” he said.

Maureen Bisognano, president emerita at the nonprofit Institute for Healthcare

Improvement, agrees.

“If you went out to get a consultant to teach you how to improve patient experience, it

would be a lot more than [$80,000],” she said. Plus, the system’s approach gives it real-

time feedback “right at the moment of care about what needs to be fixed.” Most

important, she said, it sends a message to patients that Geisinger trusts them.

ProvenExperience, as the program is called, allows patients to get refunds in a variety of

ways. The quickest is through a specially designed mobile app — a free one — on which

patients can rate their experience and put in for a refund for services that took place

beginning last November. Requests are typically processed in three to five business

days.

At the same time, any of Geisinger’s 30,000 employees can reach out to patients who

feel their service or experience is “not good.” Employees can provide “service recovery”

with free lunch or dinner vouchers, parking passes or gift certificates for the hospital gift

shop. That is also how the system deals with unhappy Medicare patients. The uninsured

can get financial credit on a case-by-case basis, officials said.

Though the ultimate goal is to improve patient experience, “the money piece gives us

skin in the game,” said neurosurgeon Jonathan Slotkin, who helped design the program.

The top refund requests reflect issues common to many hospitals, including complaints

about poor communication with the staff, parking, noisy hospital rooms and billing

issues. Some requests come directly from Feinberg, who visits regularly with patients

throughout the system and jots down his cellphone number when he hands out his

business card.

Geisinger Health System will give refunds to patients who are unhappy with any aspect of their hospital

experience. (Ricky Carioti/The Washington Post)

Feinberg said Geisinger is already making improvements, starting with a new corporate

chef to come up with better menus at each hospital. Other changes will take a bit longer.

To address emergency-room backlogs, he is working on a plan to eliminate all wait times

within three years. That may involve new online registration and ER waiting rooms that

could be turned into clinical space where doctors would treat non-emergency patients.

To improve communication, all employees are getting new training to ensure they

always introduce themselves to patients, ask permission before performing procedures

and tell patients what is coming next.

[At these hospitals, treating patients without respect is considered ‘preventable harm’]

Within Geisinger, some staffers are afraid that there will be repercussions if a patient

wants money back.

“If a patient of mine asks for a refund, does that reflect I am a poor-quality physician? I

have those own internal fears myself,” Slotkin acknowledged.

At a more fundamental level, he said, it is a cultural change for doctors who were trained

to treat relationships with patients as “sacrosanct and precious” — and certainly

different from selling shoes or sofas.

“People don’t respond to change well,” said Anthony Petrick, who heads bariatric

surgery at Geisinger.

But he and others said they also understand that as patients pay an ever-greater share of

the cost of their care, hospitals need to understand that they are customers who must be

treated with dignity and respect.

Kim Walsh didn’t even know she could get money back. The pharmacist, 51, had

undergone thyroid surgery in December. The operation was successful, but her stay was

calamitous.

At Geisinger’s Wyoming Valley Medical Center in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Walsh was assigned

a room with no toilet. She had to use a public bathroom, which meant asking staff for

help to get out of bed and walk down a long hallway. She remembers one particularly

rude aide. On her last trip, there was urine on the seat and no toilet paper. She called her

husband in tears.

The hospital’s patient-advocate representative was appalled and assured Walsh she

wouldn’t have to pay the remaining $785 of her deductible. Walsh hopes hospital

staffers have learned an important lesson.

“I would have rather been treated well and paid my 800 bucks,” she said.”

Like our Health & Wellness page on Facebook for more science news about

the ins and outs of the human body and mind, essays and advice. You

can sign up here for our newsletter.

Source link:

https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/healthscience/2016/04/14/207cb934-fd95-11e5-

886f-a037dba38301_story.html