SOURCE: The_most_unexpected_hospital_billing_development_ever_refunds.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2020
TOPIC: Customer Satisfaction in Healthcare
SUMMARY: Geisinger Health System is the first hospital system in the U.S. to offer customer refunds for poor experiences, in a shift towards improving patient satisfaction.
KEYWORDS: customer refunds, patient satisfaction, healthcare experience, Geisinger Health System, Affordable Care Act
---

[Document: The_most_unexpected_hospital_billing_development_ever_refunds.pdf]

Health & Science

The most unexpected hospital

billing development ever: Refunds

Interested in this story?

By Lena H. Sun

April 15, 2016

How the patient refund app works (Gillian Brockell, Lena Sun/The Washington Post)

DANVILLE, Pa. — At Geisinger Health System in Pennsylvania, hospital officials

want to keep their customers happy. So when patients are upset about a long wait in the

emergency department, or a doctor’s brusque manner, or a meal that never arrived in a

room, Geisinger is doing more than apologizing.

It’s offering money back on their care, no questions asked.

The hospital system is the first in the country to adopt what has long been a basic tenet

of retail business: customer refunds. This focus on customer satisfaction is a relatively

new concept for health care, in which doctors have typically called the shots. And it’s

one that Geisinger’s staff questioned when president and chief executive David Feinberg

came up with the refund idea last fall.

But the novel approach is in keeping with health care’s shift to improve the experience

of patients. Under the Affordable Care Act, government payments are increasingly tied

to the quality of care and patient satisfaction as opposed to the quantity of services

provided.

“We want to make sure we not only have the right care that is high quality and safe, but

we also want to make sure our care is compassionate, dignified and delivered with a lot

of kindness,” said Feinberg, who took over Geisinger last May after running the UCLA

health system.

One 49-year-old patient received a $210 refund in February after an appointment left

her in tears. “Pt felt like they didn’t care and did not have her best interest at heart. Pt.

stated she came to Geisinger b/c she trusted us, she has no trust now,” according to the

financial authorization for the refund.

Karen Hull was upset, too, and not just over the chicken panini that took hours to be

delivered after her successful surgery in January. Several weeks earlier, the Geisinger

Medical Center finance department had blindsided the 46-year-old dental hygienist with

a call for a “down payment” on her operation, for a herniated disc that had caused

crippling pain.

“I remember thinking, it’s not like I’m going to skip out on my back surgery,” she said.

She wound up paying $100 toward her $2,375 co-payment.

After she got home, she asked for a $150 refund — an amount that reflected her distress

but didn’t make her look “hoggish.”

Hers was among the 74 requests that Geisinger received between October and mid-

March. In response to those requests, the system refunded or waived charges of nearly

$80,000, officials said. Only co-payments and deductibles can be considered.

Neurosurgeon Jonathan Slotkin, center, meets with Karen Hull and her husband, Shaun, before her spinal-

cord surgery in January at the Geisinger Medical Center in Danville, Pa. (Ricky Carioti/The Washington Post)

When Feinberg first announced the program, which began as a pilot and then was

expanded to all patients systemwide in early April, other industry executives told him it

was “a dumb idea,” he said. But there is less skepticism now given how the feedback

already has boosted patient satisfaction scores, a key metric the federal government uses

to pay hospitals.

Industry executives at a recent health-plan meeting were “blown away” after hearing the

CEO’s presentation, recalled Ceci Connolly, president and chief executive of the Alliance

of Community Health Plans. The organization represents 22 health plans and provider

groups, including Geisinger.

“It is sad and ironic that a business that has decided to listen to its customers and be

responsive and even occasionally refund some money is considered so out-of-the box,”

Connolly noted.

At least one other system — University of Utah Health Care — is looking into a similar

program.

[How hospitals hope to boost ratings on Yelp, Zocdoc and Vitals]

In recent years, hospitals nationwide have sought to make care more customer-friendly,

with staff retraining and new programs. Yet Geisinger’s move is perhaps the boldest

innovation by a system long known for reinventing medical care. A decade ago, for

example, Geisinger introduced a 90-day warranty for surgery patients.

Its size and its integration of hospitals, doctor practices and insurance helps to make

that possible. It is one of the country’s largest health systems, with 10 hospitals serving

more than 3 million residents in Pennsylvania and southern New Jersey, and it claims

more than 500,000 members in a health coverage plan it offers. The refund program is

in place only at the Pennsylvania facilities.

“They can make the math work,” compensating for short-term losses on refunds through

longer-term relationships with the insurance customers, Connolly said.

Skeptics’ worries that greedy patients would abuse the system and cite any reason in

demanding money back have not proved warranted. And Feinberg maintains that the

refund process provides Geisinger with valuable information, spotlighting areas that

need improvement. The amounts, which are limited to a patient’s maximum co-pay or

deductible, have ranged from $20 to a few thousand dollars.

“We have a built-in secret-shopper program, and the patient is telling us when we get it

right,” he said. Most feedback has been positive. Refunds represent “families who had to

wait in the emergency room for too long, or were treated by a doctor in an abrupt

manner, or the nurse got too caught up in what she was doing and forgot to hold

someone’s hand,” he said.

Maureen Bisognano, president emerita at the nonprofit Institute for Healthcare

Improvement, agrees.

“If you went out to get a consultant to teach you how to improve patient experience, it

would be a lot more than [$80,000],” she said. Plus, the system’s approach gives it real-

time feedback “right at the moment of care about what needs to be fixed.” Most

important, she said, it sends a message to patients that Geisinger trusts them.

ProvenExperience, as the program is called, allows patients to get refunds in a variety of