SOURCE: TI_Magazine_The_Leader_as_the_Facilitator_Sept2016.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: This text discusses how leaders need to transition from a top-down approach to a more facilitative role when managing knowledge workers.
KEYWORDS: leadership, knowledge workers, facilitation, transformation, Ford Motor Company
---

E N G A G E M E N T

THE LEADER AS THE FACILITATOR

How to Effectively Lead Knowledge Workers

B U S I N E S S P E R S P E C T I V E S O N M A N AG I N G WO R L D - C L A S S T R A I N I N G

6

1

0

2

L

L

AF

I

YL

R

E

T

R

AU

Q

Historically, “leadership” Peter Drucker presented a very “How do you help your team members

has largely been considered simple definition: achieve their goals when you – as a

a top-down function. Leaders leader–are not an expert on the topic?”

“Knowledge Workers are people who

were masters of their crafts that know more about what they are

To illustrate these challenges, we will

doled out their knowledge doing than their boss does.”

examine how one CEO, Alan Mulally,

over time to eager apprentices

Fundamentally, the ever-increasing gained well-deserved notoriety

aspiring to gain wisdom. Enter presence of the Knowledge Worker for creatively leveraging the skills

the “Knowledge Worker.” threatens to render our traditional of his team, the people of the

assumptions about top-down Ford Motor Company and the

leadership obsolete. It also presents Situational Leadership® Model to lead

challenges to modern-day leaders an incredibly successful turnaround.

that their counterparts in years gone This example demonstrates how

by were not called to address: “The Leader as Facilitator” has a

|

TRAINING INDUSTRY MAGAZINE - FALL2016 I WWW.TRAININGINDUSTRY.COM/MAGAZINE 2

higher probability of success than ALAN MULALLY AND FORD a problem of significance with no real

“The Leader as Boss” when leading strategy to fix it.

Knowledge Workers. When Alan assumed the role of CEO

in 2006, here are a few of the top-line Looking back, Alan viewed this as one

A leader’s transition from boss to “opportunities” that awaited him: of the most important moments in

facilitator is a function of the leader’s the turnaround of Ford. In response to

ability to create an open and transparent • F ord had just posted the largest Mark’s transparent assessment, Alan

environment that encourages team annual loss in its 103-year history literally stood up and applauded. He

members to assess and articulate their • Stock was trading at $1 per share congratulated Mark on having the

own level of performance without fear or courage to openly admit he had a

shame of any kind – and be open to help • Employees were paralyzed with fear problem – and even more – to admit

from people at any level of the company. that he had no idea on how to solve it,

Clearly, this kind of transparency is much Alan’s first acts were to form a but that he was working on it.

easier to imagine than it is to establish. cohesive leadership team and to come

Fortunately, we have an example for together around a compelling vision,

He then said something few leaders have

your consideration. comprehensive strategy and relentless

the nerve to say in the presence of their

implementation process. He then

leadership teams:

convened a weekly meeting with the

16 members of his leadership team

IF PEOPLE HAVE (all of whom would certainly qualify “Mark, you have a ‘RED.’ Above all else,

as credentialed Knowledge Workers). sincere thanks for the transparency! Also,

PROBLEMS, YOU

Initially, Alan asked each of them to do please recognize this … it’s OK! Now,

WANT TO GET two things: just to be clear, I don’t have the answer

to your problem either. But, good news!

THEM OUT ON THE 1| I dentify a plan to implement the strategy. We have thousands of very smart people

who work here at Ford. Let’s get to work

TABLE SO YOU 2| Assess progress against the plan using and find somebody who can help Mark

the following guidelines: solve this problem.”

CAN HELP FIND

SOLUTIONS.

GREEN| On plan. Currently on target

What happened? The team turned

and projected to achieve goal.

their attention to Mark’s problem

YELLOW| Not currently on plan, and identified people who had the

LEADING USING ORGANIZED but trending in a direction that would experience and expertise to help. Within

COMMON SENSE ultimately deliver desired results. a few minutes, there was noticeable

movement in a positive direction. What

RED| Not on plan, and not sure how

Developed by Dr. Paul Hersey followed were a series of bold and

to get there.

and grounded in over 50 years of effective decisions that drove a truly

foundational research, Situational legendary transformation. Alan retired in

The results from that first meeting?

Leadership® is a practical, repeatable 2013 and during that year, Ford earned

Each of the 16 team members reported

model that is most frequently referred $7.2 billion, which translated to record

GREEN (even though the company they

to as “organized common sense.” The profit-sharing bonuses of approximately

ran happened to be in a tailspin headed

Situational Leadership® Model is based $9,000 per employee.

toward a record $17 billion loss!). In

on the relationship between leaders and

light of the impending reality, Alan

followers and serves as a framework to THE LEADER AS FACILITATOR

encouraged his team, “Let’s do it again.”

analyze each situation based on:

After a period of time, Mark Fields

There are a number of lessons from Alan’s

(current CEO of Ford) finally said, “RED!”

• T he amount of guidance and direction experience at Ford that are transferable to

He then went on to candidly describe

(task behavior) a leader gives

• T he amount of socioemotional support LESSONS LEARNED:

(relationship behavior) a leader provides

EFFECTIVELY LEADING KNOWLEDGE WORKERS

• The Performance Readiness® Level

that followers exhibit for a specific With the ever-increasing presence of Knowledge Workers in the workplace, modern-day leaders are

task, function, or objective presented with the challenge of trying to help their team achieve goals when they are not an expert on