SOURCE: TI_Magazine_The_Leader_as_the_Facilitator_Sept2016.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership of Knowledge Workers
SUMMARY: Modern leaders must adapt their approach to effectively guide knowledge workers when they lack expertise on a topic.
KEYWORDS: knowledge workers, leadership, transparency, collaboration
---

• The Performance Readiness® Level

that followers exhibit for a specific With the ever-increasing presence of Knowledge Workers in the workplace, modern-day leaders are

task, function, or objective presented with the challenge of trying to help their team achieve goals when they are not an expert on

the topic. Here are a few tips to effectively lead Knowledge Workers:

This approach stresses flexibility and

simplicity in execution, helping leaders • Be wary of making • Recognize that knowledge • Target transparency and

across the organization address the suggestions without is power applaud when you get it

most pressing challenges pervasive in true expertise • Actively involve others • Check your ego at the door

today’s work environment.

|

TRAINING INDUSTRY MAGAZINE - FALL2016 I WWW.TRAININGINDUSTRY.COM/MAGAZINE 3

CREATE A

FORUM WHERE

TRUTH TELLING

IS CELEBRATED,

REWARDED

AND NORMAL.

anyone tasked with the responsibility of There would have been a strong he was incapable of producing based

leading Knowledge Workers: tendency for Mark (and everybody else on his experience alone. It’s almost like

in the room) to say, “Great idea,” and then his mantra became: “By all means, come

Target transparency and applaud when turn their attention to implementation. to the team with problems … so we

you get it. This is problematic for two reasons: can all work together to help you find

Most of us have difficulty articulating our a solution.”

struggles in a public forum, especially in • I t may well have been a less-than-

the presence of our boss and peers. This optimal suggestion by a boss without Check your ego at the door.

probably stems from history we may have true knowledge. Fundamentally, leading Knowledge Workers

with bosses who said things like: “Don’t requires that the leader get rid of ego and

• T here would have been limited (if any)

come to me with a problem, come to me focus on achievement. Again, to quote Peter

personal ownership moving forward

with a solution!” Drucker, “Our mission is to make a positive

from anyone on the team (“This was

difference, not to prove how smart we are.”

When you think about it, that is exactly the boss’s idea.”).

the opposite of what an effective leader

After hearing “RED” and providing The first step in responding to a challenge

should want. If people have problems,

recognition for the honesty, Alan made occurs when team members are willing

you want to get them out on the table so

it clear that he would not be the source to admit a challenge exists. The first step

you can help find solutions. When Mark

of a solution. It may seem odd, but in addressing the challenge occurs when

Fields said, “RED,” Alan went out of his way

this more than anything was a call to leaders are willing to admit they don’t

to say, “That’s OK,” and provide the kind

collaborative action. have all the answers and facilitate the

of positive recognition that encouraged

process of finding solutions.

truth and inspired trust.

Actively involve others.

With ever-increasing regularity, leaders at

Recognize that knowledge is power. Leadership is a multi-directional dynamic. all levels in organizations will be responsible

Leading a Knowledge Worker means they It can come from the top down, but it for effectively influencing Knowledge

know more than you do. Embracing that often flows from peer to peer or from Workers. Creating an environment where

reality in the context of organizational the bottom up. If the problems Ford was those individuals can transparently

power is critical. The boss can rarely force facing when Alan became CEO were well communicate their level of performance

people to tell him or her the truth. They defined and simple, somebody would provides the leader with the opportunity to

can, however, create a forum where truth have figured them out long before he facilitate forward movement, accomplish

telling is celebrated, rewarded and normal. arrived. Ford faced monumental (and important goals and build a culture that

highly complex) challenges. thrives on achievement.

Be wary of making suggestions without

true expertise. Almost immediately Alan called upon the Marshall Goldsmith is the world authority

It is difficult – if not impossible – for collective wisdom of the “thousands of in helping successful leaders get even better.

the formal leader (aka boss) to make very smart people” at Ford to help solve Alan Mulally is the former CEO of Ford and

suggestions. What do you think would them. It is in this light that the “Leader is currently helping great companies move

have happened after Mark Fields said as Facilitator” is distinguished from the to a new level. Sam Shriver is the senior

“RED” if Alan had responded by saying: “Leader as Boss.” Alan leveraged the vice president of commercial operations

“Have you tried this?” or “Have you legitimacy of his position as the driving and product development at The Center for

tried that?” force behind the search for solutions Leadership Studies.

|

TRAINING INDUSTRY MAGAZINE - FALL2016 I WWW.TRAININGINDUSTRY.COM/MAGAZINE 4