SOURCE: Total Retail 2015 PwC report.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Mobile Shopping and Social Media
SUMMARY: The report discusses the growing importance of mobile phones in retail, the impact of social media on shopping, and the demographic shifts affecting global retail.
KEYWORDS: mobile shopping, social media, demographic changes
---

billion in sales.2 to tag apparel in their “selfies,” and then the Internet, with the shopping behaviors

share those photos with friends via social of the rest of our sample. When we looked

While those increases are impressive media. “Everyone knows that consumers at their mobile phone shopping frequency

and no doubt noteworthy, mobile is still are increasingly using mobile phones in against the rest of our survey respondents,

a very small piece of the pie in terms of store,’ says Stylinity CEO Tadd Spering. for example, our digital natives shopped via

overall retail sales. But mobile phones are “They are checking prices and getting phone more than the rest of our sample in

increasingly a critical factor in setting the product information, yes, but also seeking every category: daily, weekly, monthly, a

stage for a purchase. As Matt Hyde, the CEO out trusted advice from friends. Ultimately, few times a year, and once a year. Moreover,

of West Marine, a major California-based shopping on a mobile device will be distinct just 39% of our digital natives said they

retailer of boat supplies, told PwC: “The from any other shopping experience.” never shop via their smart phone, while

importance of mobile is not how many 56% of other age groups said they never

transactions are completed on a mobile Social media as a phenomenon is still in shop via their smart phone.

phone. The importance is how the consumer its infancy, and its bottom-line effect on

is interacting, making decisions, checking retailing is just starting to be felt. This Another aspect of demographic disruption

information, checking stock, finding your year’s data suggests that social media’s critical to retailers is global aging patterns.

stores, communicating with you through impact on retail may evolve along two Large swaths of the world, including

the smart phone. That’s what’s different.” tracks: one for the developing world in China, Japan, and many countries in

which social media becomes more and Europe, contain rapidly aging societies.

more part of the daily fabric of shopping, In some cases, such as that of Japan, an

represented most robustly by China, and a aging society can exacerbate the effects of

separate one for the developed economies, recession. The good news, however, is that

where social media continues to be more many aging populations are healthier than

of a communications tool rather than a previous generations of senior citizens, and

shopping tool. much more prosperous. Suddenly, retailers

can count on a large segment of global

consumers with a long track record of

spending, and intending to spend into the

foreseeable future.

2

At the same time, India and the nations I believe that our 2015 Total Retail survey

of Africa continue to get younger, a polar research—coupled with our interviews

opposite demographic disruption, but also with retailers—provides a distinctive

one with positive ramifications for global perspective on the current state of

retailers and consumer goods companies. retail. The breadth of this year’s analysis,

As GDP growth continues to be robust in covering as it does so many countries in

these regions (albeit from a small base), every corner of the globe, provides critical

millions more consumers will join the data for almost every retailer, regardless of

middle class every year. market or base of operations. As always, I

hope you enjoy this report and thanks so

For example, according to the World Bank, much for reading.

Africa’s middle class consumes will grow

from approximately 355 million people in John G. Maxwell

2013 (34 percent of Africa’s population) to

1.1 billion (42 percent of the population)

over the next three decades.3

Global Retail and Consumer Leader

Figure 1: The physical store remains the primary retail touch point for consumers

Q: How often do you buy products using the following shopping channels?

In-store 8% 28% 34% 24% 3%2%

Online via PC 3% 17% 34% 34% 7% 4%

Online via mobile phone

or smartphone 3% 8% 13% 16% 7% 52%

Catalogue/magazine 2% 10% 15% 21% 14% 38%

Online via tablet 2% 8% 14% 15% 6% 54%

Next generation

wearables (watch, 2%4% 8% 12% 9% 66%

glasses, pens)

TV shopping 2%4% 7% 10% 10% 68%

0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%

Daily Weekly Monthly Few times a year Once a year Never

Source: Global PwC 2015 Total Retail Survey

3

Base: 19,068

4

Disruption 1

The changing role of the store

A characteristic feature of the technological • On the other hand, the top three reasons

revolution of the last generation has been for shopping in-store (see figure 3), Russian fashion retailer

the haste with which some analysts have depend on factors that are often

Lamoda delivers to

rushed to declare the “imminent” demise exclusive to physical stores (“I’m able

of various activities. From paperless offices to see, touch and try merchandise,” “To homes, allows customers

to bookless readers to storeless retail, get the product immediately,” and “I’m

to try on clothes, and

people have rushed to anticipate the “end” more certain about fit/suitability of the

of one era and the dawn of another, more product”). These factors generally cannot then takes away what

technologically enlightened one. But be achieved by online shops, although

they don’t want.

that’s not always how technology works. that could be changing if start-ups like

It’s true that one technology will often the Russian fashion retailer Lamoda find

succeed another, but it’s also true that older success co-opting some of the advantages

technologies will just as often coexist in of the physical store. Lamoda delivers to

perfect harmony, and continuing profit, customers’ homes, then allows them 15

with their successors. minutes to try on their choices. Shoppers

pay only for what they want to keep, and

The purchase journey–still the rest is promptly taken back to the

centered on the store store or warehouse.

If there was ever an institution that has

proven historically “powerful, long- • Even in categories where consumers

lived and adaptable,”4 it is the store. As predominantly buy online (e.g.,