SOURCE: Total Retail 2015 PwC report.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Disruption and Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses how retailers like Bass Pro Shops and IKEA have disrupted the retail industry through innovative approaches, such as embracing personalized online retailing and creating guided customer purchase journeys.
KEYWORDS: retail disruption, innovation, personalized online retailing, customer experience, guided purchase journey
---

role in the conservation movement, where they can be honored and their Direct, the greatest “disruptor” for the

prominently displaying on its Web site achievements celebrated.”6 company has been the “embracing of

and social media presence its support of personalised aspects of online retailing,

conservation partners such as the National And then there’s IKEA, which has which forced everyone to rethink the

Fish and Wildlife Foundation, The Nature revolutionized home furnishings all over customer relationship and management

Conservancy, the National Wild Turkey the world. Its role was best described strategy and has been at the forefront

Federation, and the International Game several years ago by the then-director of Shop Direct’s investment focus.”8

Fish Association. But the real innovation of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum as

happens when Bass Pro Shops puts its the purveyor of a “global functional

partnerships to work on behalf of both its minimalism.”7 As for its layout, it has

customers and its conservation efforts. become famous for the way it leads a

customer from one department to another

In a specialty card program, the company in a kind of guided purchase journey.

contributes a percentage of each Bass

Pro Shops credit card purchase to specific

conservation projects, including a fishery

habitat initiative known as the “More Fish

Campaign.”

10

Disruption 2

Mobile and related technologies

According to a 2014 report from the Pew Yet, just 29% of our survey respondents But set aside for a moment the specific

Research Center, parts of the developing overall currently envision using their smart debate over mobile purchasing, and

world are quickly reaching—or, in the case phone as their “main tool” for purchasing another facet of the story emerges: Mobile

of China, have surpassed—US rates of (see figure 8 on page 16) and, despite the devices are an unusually robust and

mobile-phone adoption. Our Total Retail extraordinary global penetration of mobile multifaceted medium of pre-payment

data indicates that shortly after consumers phones and devices shown in figure 5 consumer activity, such as comparing

gain access to mobile technology, they below, only 3% of our respondents chose prices or locating stores.

experiment with shopping. Indeed, two them as their “preferred” payment method.

years ago our research found that 30% Moreover, more than half of our 19,000- Thirty percent of our global respondents

of survey respondents had used a mobile plus respondents have never used a mobile have located stores, and a quarter

phone or smart phone to make a purchase; phone or tablet to shop (52% and 54%, have used coupons they received by

this year’s data shows that 47% have.9 respectively). mobile phone. In addition, at least

10% have accessed loyalty programs,

scanned QR codes, and received either

recommendations based on prior

purchases or offers because of proximity

Figure 5: China has surpassed the U.S. in mobile phone adoption to a store. The upshot is that today the

(percentage of adults who own a cell phone) smart phone is more an instrument for

getting to the point of buying a product,

rather than a tool for the actual purchase.

100%

China

U.S.

Kenya

75

Mexico

50

Pakistan

25

0

2002 2007 2010 2013

Source: Pew Research Center

11

And retailers have to adapt. Over the By now, the fact that companies and and retailers’ abilities to recognize

course of just a few years, this disruptor governments analyze trends by sifting shoppers’ preferences as game-changers

has allowed consumers to fully research, through sets of “big data” is old news. for consumers. “The smart phone is

search for, and be updated on the entirety But today’s consumers can access their being transformed from something that

of a retailer’s range of products. On top of own versions of big data on their smart consumers can call or search with, to

that, the smart phone is also a permanent phones, and we’re just scratching the something that searches on behalf of

connection between retailer and consumer surface of that capability. “These days, them,” he says. “I might have a series

that allows continual exchange and everyone has the whole world right in their of things I want to buy, and that device

feedback from one to the other. pockets,” says Thom Blischok, chief retail will constantly search for the cheapest

strategist for PwC/Strategy&. Blischok price, the greatest value, the most unique

points to coming improvements in data product.”

storage, near-field and GPS technologies,

Figure 6: Mobile devices have become critical for pre-payment activities

Q: Which of the following have you done using your mobile/smartphone/tablet/PC?

Researched the products 49%

Compared prices with competitors 49%

Located store with mobile phone 31%

Used a coupon 25%

Checked funding available before purchasing 18%

Accessed loyalty/reward programs 16%

Scanned QR codes 13%

Received recommendations based on previous purchases 12%

Paid at the cashier 12%

Received an offer based on proximity to store 12%

“Checked in” at store via social media 11%

Tweeted the retailer/brand about the product/offer 4%

None of the above 24%

0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60%

Source: Global PwC 2015 Total Retail Survey

Base: 19,068

12

Agreeing with this assessment of mobile

Figure 7: Mobile adoption for payment varies widely

is Stephen Scheeler, head of retail,

automotive and QSR at Facebook Australia. Q: My mobile phone will become my main tool for which to purchase

Scheeler told PwC that he views the

current transition to mobile as one of the

fastest adoptions of technology in global Sample 17% 9%

history. But for retailers to keep up with

Denmark 34% 3%

consumer adaption, they may need to

transform their legacy systems. “This Belgium 32% 3%

is a pivotal change for retail in terms

of customer engagement,” Scheeler UK 27% 6%

says “In fact, we’ve undertaken our own

Germany 26% 5%

transformation internally as to how to

engage with users via mobile.”

Canada 25% 6%

Just as one example of how retailers may Australia 23% 6%

need to prepare their mobile strategy,

France 23% 6%

Scheeler pointed to the natural confluence

between mobile and video. Scheeler

US 23% 8%