SOURCE: Total Retail 2015 PwC report.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Digital Natives and E-Commerce
SUMMARY: The text discusses how digital natives, younger shoppers, are driving the growth of e-commerce in China, with a focus on mobile and video content.
KEYWORDS: digital natives, e-commerce, China, mobile, video content
---

of the above” at just a 9% rate, compared come from people above that age group, well as giving customers the ability to use

to a 16% average of the other age groups. they’re the ones with the money. So the those services anytime, anywhere. “One of

This suggested digital natives have a much data tells us that the younger generation the ways to enhance user experience,” Lo

greater desire for in-store technology. is made up of browsers and the older says, “is to offer one-stop solutions through

generations are transacting.” our PC and mobile, through various

Now that we know that digital natives platforms and different verticals including

view shopping in a different way than In China, an e-commerce market news, entertainment, online to offline, and

their predecessors, a bigger question poised for growth leveraging our payment platforms—all

looms: will the first generation of digital In China, young urban dwellers are through one log-in.”

natives, together with the next wave of driving the consumption economy and

young, digitally-savvy shoppers, have the e-commerce business. The company invested early on in mobile,

economic clout in the next few years to and that investment has paid off. “In 2012

force retailers’ hands in how they view John Lo, CFO of Tencent, a leading there were fewer than 100 million smart

their business model? provider of comprehensive Internet phones,” Lo says. “We started investing,

services in China, told PwC that the and now we are seeing a lot of people

The generational income gap e-commerce market in China has a lot of moving to low-cost smart phones. Another

The median age of almost all societies room to grow, coupled with the fact that evolution is that there are more and more

around the world is rising rapidly, with the there are online-to-offline initiatives and people watching video on their mobile

exception of India and Sub-Saharan Africa. mobile payments. “I think most important phones, so we have invested aggressively in

for e-commerce is that customers do an video content and bandwidth.”

The research on the topic suggests that the e-commerce transaction once,” Lo says.

oldest parts of national populations are “Once they have registered and once they

also among the wealthiest. Earlier this year, have paid, they trust in e-commerce and

the Economist reported that “the average they will use it more often.”

wealth of French 80-year-olds is 134% that

of 50–to 59-year-olds” and that, in the US,

“the share of male earnings going to those

aged 60-74 has risen from 7.3% to 12.7%

since 2000.”19 Further, a study by the

Our digital natives—ages 18–24—interacted with

Pew Research Center in 2011 showed the

median net worth of households headed retailers via social media at a rate far more than our

by those 65 or older to be almost 47 times

global average.

that of a household led by someone 35 year

old or younger (as opposed to just over 10

times in 1984).11

26

Conclusion

Miracle on 34th Street, Oxford

Street, and the rue de Sèvres

All the digital prophets have been right these mythical establishments. Certainly should be using technology to understand

about one thing: the new technology, from one reason is a clear nostalgia for a time who our customers are and using the

smart phones to social networks, has when shopping meant more than endless customer data we have to enhance people’s

fractured the once-cozy world of retail, shopping “seasons,” crushing crowds, and shopping experience.” This is plainly a

and particularly of the physical store. perennial discounts, but also personal message, and a strategy, that holds true

Indeed, the personalization of shopping service, attention to detail, and, above all, for every type of retailer, big or small, now

means precisely that: the fracturing of the self-fulfilling visions of the good life. and well into the future.

shopping experience into a virtually infinite The technological revolution in retail may

number of discrete shoppers with singular allow the recreation of that time—now

needs, demands, and consumer desires. lost—when shopping was a genuine

pleasure and an extraordinary gratification,

But the consumer has been here before. instead of a burden, a problem. It’s a point

The first time involved the actual creation that Simon Forster, Selfridge’s executive

of the “fabulous department stores.”12 director of multichannel, marketing and

Macy’s opened at its current address in supply chain, understands completely.

1902, Selfridges in 1909, and Bon Marché

well before either one of them, in 1869. “Mobile and digital are not gimmicks, but

During the last few years, the American about solving problems and adding value

non-profit public broadcaster PBS has to the customer; otherwise it’s just not

even premiered two British series based on worth the investment,” he told PwC. “We

27

Endnotes

1 S ee Lee Rainie and Jacob Poushter, “Emerging 6 F or the quotes regarding Bass Pro Shops, see 11 S ee Richard Fry, D’Vera Cohn, Gretchen

nations catching up to U.S. on technology “The Story: Step Inside the Great Outdoors!” Livingston, and Paul Taylor, The Rising Age

adoption, especially mobile and social media at its Website at http://www.basspro.com/ Gap in Economic Well-Being: The Old Prosper

use,” FactTank, Pew Research Center, February webapp/wcs/stores/servlet/CFPageC?sto Relative to the Young, “Overview,” Pew

13, 2014, at http://www.pewresearch.org/fact- reId=10151&catalogId=10051&langId=- Research Center, Social and Demographic

tank/2014/02/13/emerging-nations-catching- 1&appID=659. Regarding Nike, see “A History Trends, November 7, 2011, pp. 1-2.

up-to-u-s-on-technology-adoption-especially- of Nike Retail” at its Website at http://www.

mobile-and-social-media-use. nike.com/us/en_us/sl/store-locator. 12 T he quote is from Columbia historian Victoria

de Grazia; see her Irresistible Empire: America’s

2 http://techcrunch.com/2014/11/10/alibaba- 7 T he quote is from Bill Moggridge, cited in Advance Through Twentieth-Century Europe,

makes-strong-start-to-singles-day-shopping- Lauren Collins, “House Perfect,” The New The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press,

bonanza-with-2b-of-goods-sold-in-first-hour/ Yorker, October 3, 2011. 2005, p. 10.

3 h ttp://blogs.worldbank.org/ 8 A ll quotes from Mark McMenemy from

futuredevelopment/making-middle-class-africa interview with PwC, December 15, 2014

4 S ee Ben Sisario, “U.S. Music Sales Drop 5%, 9 S ee Lee Rainie and Jacob Poushter, “Emerging