SOURCE: Total Retail 2015 PwC report.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Mobile Retail Strategies
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of mobile technology in retail, and how retailers need to adapt their strategies to engage with customers via mobile.
KEYWORDS: mobile retail, customer experience, social media, digital transformation
---

transformation internally as to how to

engage with users via mobile.”

Canada 25% 6%

Just as one example of how retailers may Australia 23% 6%

need to prepare their mobile strategy,

France 23% 6%

Scheeler pointed to the natural confluence

between mobile and video. Scheeler

US 23% 8%

said that Facebook in Australia expects

short-form video to explode in the next Switzerland 21% 7%

five years, so mobile platforms need to

be optimized to support the hundreds of Russia 20% 6%

thousands of views that a popular video

Italy 12% 6%

can expect to garner. “Given the nature of

their business, retailers have many stories Turkey 12% 7%

to tell, and telling them on video requires

moving from a traditional marketing Japan 11% 8%

mindset to one of real-time creativity,”

Hong Kong 9% 10%

says Scheeler.

South Africa 8% 14%

Brazil 7% 13%

Chile 7% 16%

Middle East 6% 13%

India 4% 24%

China 3% 24%

Strongly disagree Strongly agree

Source: Global PwC 2015 Total Retail Survey

Base: 19,068

13

At West Marine, it’s not the

transaction—it’s the interaction

According to Matt Hyde, CEO of West Marine, a retailer of boating-

related products and services, mobile technology is the major

new factor in retail today. In fact, Hyde thinks that mobile is the

biggest retail disruptor he’ll see in his lifetime. ”The mobile phone

is redefining retail,” Hyde told PwC in an interview. “It is taking

out the friction from the retail transaction and giving the consumer

unbelievable power. As consumers, we have every product in the

entire world available to us at all times.”

The rapid pace of change is affecting retailers as much as shoppers.

Adapting to the “three-inch screen,” as Hyde likes to refer to

the mobile phone, means recreating the West Marine customer

experience in miniature—what the stores look like and feel like, how

the products are displayed, and what the current best deals are.

In other words, communicating the brand.

More and more, the mobile phone is the link between consumers and

social media. Boaters, like any community, are using social media to

share their interests, whether it’s navigating the Long Island Sound

on a power boat or sailing off the coast of Central California, as Hyde

himself does. But instead of trying to control that conversation and

guide it towards West Marine’s products, Hyde believes that when it

comes to social media, companies simply have to put their best foot

forward and then let consumers take care of the rest. The only thing

that a retailer can control on social media, Hyde asserts, is “how

consistent and powerful and engaging your brand is across these

devices, and then it’s up to the customer.”

For a certain kind of customer need, though, there will always be

the physical store. At West Marine, the current strategy is to position

itself with a few large stores that provide an entertaining, informative

experience for customers, whether it’s for electronic gear or new

sheets (that’s “sails” for landlubbers).

“Sometimes you have to talk to someone, try something on, touch

and feel and make sure that it is the right product,” Hyde says.

The idea, as Hyde sees it, is to start from a customer satisfaction

viewpoint, not to pigeon-hole certain products as “online” items or

“brick-and-mortar” items. “Online shopping applies to every single

product category,” Hyde says. “The real question is: What kind of

experience does the customer want on the way to getting it?”

14

While mobile is already big business load their credit information onto their with one touch shopping are going to

for the South African online retailer mobile phone to pay for products. Yet, the make a world of difference for a retailer.”

Kalahari.com, CEO Caren Genthner- fact that most people no longer hesitate to As Gallate points out, screen size is a

Kappesz cautions that it’s a connected, use their credit cards online suggests that major issue with smart phone usability

consistent, and customized experience the security issues with mobile phones as a shopping device, virtually tied with

across devices–the omnichannel will also diminish sooner rather than security as the primary obstacle. There is

experience–that customers want. “How later, especially as the security technology also considerable concern over Website

I see it, it’s not really mobile versus other involved is continually being improved, navigability and limited capacity. While

types of technology,” Genther-Kappesz enhanced, and reinforced. Mobile phones companies such as Apple, which has

says. “You have to design a user or became popular, after all—indeed, were developed the Apple Watch, are trying

customer experience that fits with quickly perceived and adopted as a to crack the code of elegantly designing

however the customer wants to access personal necessity—long before anybody an Internet interface over a small surface

our services. For a particular feature, we thought about paying bills through them. area, the jury is still out on which of these

design it across all technologies and across ambitious efforts will succeed—if any.

all screens that we know customers will George Gallate runs the retail search and

want to use. So in that sense it is not a social media firm Merkle/RKG, and has

separate thing; it’s one part of the portfolio been working in various capacities with “It’s not as easy to transact

we are offering.” clients on the Web since the mid-1990s.

on a phone yet, but the

“Consumers are certainly concerned about

A look at mobile challenges their online security, particularly as it advances that are being

The future may be mobile, but it’s relates to commerce on a phone,” Gallate

made with one touch

instructive to take a look at just what the says. “But go back to when the commercial

current obstacles are to a more large- Web started. The majority of us did not shopping are going

scale adoption of mobile for payment or think that commerce would happen

to make the world of

researching products. As figure 8 on the there. More recently, people were not