SOURCE: Total Retail 2015 PwC report.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Industry Disruption
SUMMARY: The report examines four key disruptive forces in the retail industry, including the evolving role of physical stores, the impact of mobile technology, the proliferation of social networks, and demographic shifts.
KEYWORDS: retail disruption, physical stores, mobile technology, social networks, demographic shifts
---

www.pwc.com/totalretail

#TotalRetail

Total Retail 2015:

Retailers

and the Age

of Disruption

PwC’s Annual

Global Total Retail

Consumer Survey

February 2015

As online shopping continues

to grow at the expense of store

visits, the premium in the future

will be on creating unique,

brand-defining experiences that

keep customers coming back—

whatever the channel.

Contents

Executive Summary 1

Disruption 1: The changing role of the store 5

Disruption 2: Mobile and related technologies 11

Disruption 3: The proliferation of social networks 19

Disruption 4: Demographic shifts 25

Conclusion 27

Endnotes 28

Survey Methodology 30

More Information 31

iii

iv

Executive summary

Retailers and the Age

of Disruption

In last year’s Total Retail report, I referred Four disruptive forces As my PwC colleague and the leader of

to the high bar that participants in PwC’s This year’s report expands on this total our U.S. Retail & Consumer Practice,

global online shopper survey had set for retail discussion and delves into four Steve Barr, puts it: “From in-store design

retailers worldwide. In the 12 months retail disruptors. Our first disruptor, the studios and personal shopping assistants

since, that bar has been raised higher still– evolution of the store, can be thought of to coffee and tea ateliers, retailers are

but customer expectations are really just more as a business model evolution. Our offering a comprehensive experience,

part of the story for retailers in 2015. second and third disruptors—mobile evolving into something sleeker, more

technology and social networks—are customized and increasingly attuned to

In fact, the environment for retailers technological. A fourth—demographic shoppers’ expectations of what the in-store

has never been more complex. In this shifts—is more socio-economic. experience should be.”

year’s report, we have reinforced our

consumer research with interviews of Our first disruptor is centered on an It is still very early days for the

retailers around the world. Our analysis, institution as old as modern shopping transformative effects that both mobile

both of our survey data and interviews, itself: the store. It’s certainly true that the and social networks will have on retail.

keeps bringing us back to four waves of physical store remains the retail touch This year’s Thanksgiving shopping

disruption facing every retailer, regardless point with the highest frequency. More weekend was profoundly altered by mobile

of where they operate: the evolving role than one in three (36%) of our global phones. The Financial Times reported

of the store, the proliferation of social sample goes to a physical store at least in December that mobile sales on Cyber

networks, mobile phone technology, and weekly. That is a significant difference Monday following Thanksgiving 2014

global demographic shifts. compared to how often they shop weekly “increased by a whopping 29.3 percent,

online via PC (20%), online via tablet to account for one in five transactions”

An expanded and deepened survey (10%), and online via mobile phone (11%). online. A few days earlier, the New York

Our global consumer survey now covers Times, citing IBM data, had also reported

more than 19,000 respondents in But as online shopping continues to grow significant spikes in purchases by mobile

19 territories on six continents. The at the expense of store visits, the premium phone on Thanksgiving Day and Black

more we expand and deepen this in the future will be on creating unique, Friday: “Sales from mobile devices jumped

annual assessment, the more effective it brand-defining (be it offering sheer over 25 percent on both days…. People

becomes in analyzing and evaluating the convenience or an offer that excites and logging onto shopping sites from their

international retail landscape. engages) that keep customers coming back. smartphones or tablets accounted for over

half of all online traffic on Thursday, and

Some of the results from this year’s survey A case in point is Turkey’s Migros, a leading almost half of traffic on Friday.”1

echo a fundamental principle from last supermarket chain. The company’s CEO,

year: namely, that achieving “total retail” O. Ozgur Tort, explained to PwC in an

demands thinking beyond channels. The interview how Migros’s inventive channel

more shoppers we canvass in country after approach uses kiosks to sell online to

country—and the more thoroughly we customers in-store. According to Tort,

poll them about their consumer habits, “The aim is to push e-commerce sales to

preferences, and expectations for a better customers who are already physically

shopping experience—the more obvious it shopping in the store, by making them

is that consumers are developing their own offers for products that are not in the

approach to researching and purchasing, physical inventory of the store.”

both online and in-store. They want

their shopping needs met in a way that

minimizes uncertainty and inflexibility

and maximizes efficiency, convenience,

and pleasure.

1

Denmark

U.K. Russia

Germany

Canada

France

Turkey

Italy Switzerland

U.S.

China/HK

Belgium

Japan

Middle East

India

Brazil

6 continents,

Chile

19 territories,

South Africa Australia

19,000 online

shoppers surveyed

A similar mobile phenomenon was evident In other words, the mobile phone is rapidly Our fourth and final disruptor is grounded

in Single’s Day in China, which is the becoming a crucial shopping agent as in demographics. In this year’s survey data,

biggest one-day shopping event on the shoppers demand more personalization. we see very different consumer behaviors

planet. The volume of Alibaba’s sales, for New York-based social media company when we compare the behaviors of “digital

example, made via mobile on Single’s Day Stylinity is focused on smart phone natives,” the 18-24 age cohort that is the

in 2014 totaled 43% of the company’s $9.3 technology that makes it easy for consumers first group of adults to have grown up with

billion in sales.2 to tag apparel in their “selfies,” and then the Internet, with the shopping behaviors

share those photos with friends via social of the rest of our sample. When we looked

While those increases are impressive media. “Everyone knows that consumers at their mobile phone shopping frequency