SOURCE: Total Retail 2015 PwC report.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Optimization
SUMMARY: The report discusses the importance of optimizing store footprints and developing new formats to adapt to changing consumer behavior, such as web-rooming and reverse showrooming.
KEYWORDS: store footprint, new retail formats, web-rooming, reverse showrooming, omnichannel experience
---

the US “has seven times the retail square to optimize store footprints and develop

footage per capita of the next leading new formats all the more critical.

country.” In fact, there are approximately

100,000 stores in the country with the

sole purpose of selling apparel and

accessories.5

Figure 4: “Web-rooming” is just as important as “showrooming”

Have you ever intentionally browsed Have you ever intentionally browsed

products at a store but, decided to buy products online, but decided to buy

them online? them in-store?

32% 30%

68% 70%

Yes No Yes No

Source: Global PwC 2015 Total Retail Survey

Base: 19,068

8

The narrative around showrooming–

defined as using the physical store as a

showroom, so one can touch and feel the At Walgreens, a ground-breaking app built

product, and then buying online–for the on a retail footprint

past several years was that the store would

One vision of the future of the physical store is the one that

be relegated to just that, a place to display

Walgreens has created, in which its huge retail footprint forms the

items for online purchase. But, in reality,

that’s not the case, according to our survey. bedrock of an omnichannel experience combining retail, pharmacy

While 68% of our global sample say that and healthcare services

they have browsed products at a store but

decided to purchase them online, 70% Adam Pellegrini, Walgreens’s vice president for digital health,

of our global sample said that they have told PwC that “about 75% of America lives within five miles of a

done just the opposite; that is, browsed

Walgreens. Everyone comes into our stores at one point in time

products online but decided to purchase

for something. We want people to come in and do more than just

them in-store—“reverse showrooming” or

pick up their prescription or some milk, but really have part of their

“web-rooming.” So while the store may well

healthcare experience within that location.”

be a showroom to touch and feel for later

online purchase, the online shop is also a

showroom of sorts, one where shoppers To guarantee a seamless experience with Walgreens, the company

research and compare prices for later in- realized it couldn’t just rely on its store network. Traveling to a

store purchase. specific location might not always be convenient, especially if a

customer was feeling sick. “We know that sometimes someone may

not want to get out of bed because they’re not feeling well,” Pellegrini

Indeed, one of the biggest downsides

says. “So part of our digital health approach is to focus on delivering

to shopping online in today’s connected

that experience on customers’ terms. They should, for example, be

age seems to be that it’s actually not fast

able to pick up their smart phone, open up the Walgreen’s mobile

enough, at least when compared to getting

a product immediately upon purchase app, and talk to a local provider via our telemedicine experience.

in-store. When we asked our global sample That’s the ultimate convenience.”

why they shop in-store instead of online,

the second most frequent response—a With that level of convenience in mind, the company created

weighty 53%—was, “To get the product functionality with its mobile app to provide a mobile version of its

immediately.”

Balance Rewards for healthy choices program, which essentially

rewards customers with points for practicing healthy behaviors.

Walgreens customers can track everything from their fitness regime

“We wanted to be open for

to weight management to blood pressure. The program has a social

all devices to be able to aspect to it, as well, in which customers can come together to chat,

share recipes, and fitness tips.

connect into us, because

it’s really an extension of The company was adamant that the Balance Rewards for healthy

the store.” choices be open to the full range of customers’ favorite devices.

“We wanted to be open for all devices to be able to connect into us,

– Adam Pellegrini, Vice President, Digital Health, Walgreens

because it’s really an extension of the store,” Pellegrini says. “We sell

devices in our store as a partner, so we should be virtually connected

to our partners and really win together.” Today the Balance Rewards

program has an astounding 82 million members, proof that the

historical goodwill created through years of operating physical stores

can be parlayed into digital success.

What’s next for Walgreens? For one, connected devices for

monitoring and telemedicine. “We want to make sure that not only

are we focused on fitness and wellness, but also on chronic disease

and illness,” Pellegrini says. “So, Walgreens will be a member of our

customers’ virtual care team.” Oh, and customers will still be able to

go into their neighborhood Walgreens and pick up that quart of milk–

it’s a store, after all.

9

Forging a connection through As for Nike, it has long straddled the grey There is probably no more successful

the brand area between manufacturer and retail. For example of the transformation of the

But there are other ways of appealing its retail stores, it has marketed them as customer purchase journey than that

to customers. For instance, Bass Pro oases for athletes, where everyone from undertaken by Shop Direct, the UK’s

Shops, the highly specialized retailer rock climbers to basketball players will leading multibrand digital retailer.

for the sports-minded, has appealed to perceive that the equipment and apparel What began as, and was for many

its customer base in a manner that goes will be the equal of their dedication. Its decades, a catalogue business is now

well beyond the four walls of the physical Niketown megastores have become known 85% online. Indeed, according to Mark

store. The company has taken a leadership as “a sort of museum to athletes, a place McMenemy, a Senior Advisor at Shop

role in the conservation movement, where they can be honored and their Direct, the greatest “disruptor” for the

prominently displaying on its Web site achievements celebrated.”6 company has been the “embracing of