SOURCE: Total Retail 2015 PwC report.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Social Media Marketing
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of social media innovation and various strategies retailers can use to engage with consumers through digital channels.
KEYWORDS: social media, digital marketing, brand engagement, consumer interaction, retail strategy
---

Flyer or recommendation in-store 13%

Had a good or bad experience and wanted feedback through social media 12%

Interested in interacting with the brand and its online followers 11%

To learn about and provide feedback on brands social/environmental commitment 10%

Brand contacted me through social media 9%

The opportunity to influence product design 8%

Source: Global PwC 2015 Total Retail Survey

Base: 17,944

20

How to innovate “When a retailer is configuring their digital in the top 20 based on brand value.

Given the upward trajectory of consumer programs, they need to think of what That compares with eight technology

engagement with retailers via social the various platforms offer,” Gallate says. companies, four automotive companies,

media, Merkle/RKG’s Gallate views social For example, social media platforms are and four consumer companies. The direct

as a disruptor on the level of mobile, and ideally suited for creating or supporting traffic that a retailer experiences is one of

he’s convinced there is only one way for a brand, as they provide the space to the best indicators of a significant amount

retailers to prosper in what has become generate genuine word-of-mouth and viral of brand equity.

a mercilessly competitive—and now buzz. Digital and display ads, on the other

thoroughly global—environment. And that hand, reinforce consumer interest. Search At the Turkish apparel company Mavi

is through social media innovation. platforms indicate “pure customer intent” Jeans, CEO Cüneyt Yavuz told PwC that his

according to Gallate and, therefore, point company reaches out over digital channels

“Innovate or die,” Gallate declares. to a strong desire to complete an actual to build its brand directly with Mavi’s

“Without pushing the envelope, without transaction. In our survey results this year, young customers, with the expectation

continuously testing what might work in 56% of participants said the first thing they that “digital natives” will engage directly

a social environment, a retailer is going do when researching a purchase is to go with the company via its social media

to go backwards. Informed risk is the to a search engine. So a retailer that really properties. So far so good, as Mavi is one

only option.” wants to improve its viability as a purchase of the top three jean brands in Turkey in

destination should probably invest in terms of social media followers, interacting

That risk might center on optimizing search engine optimization. with more than 2.4 million customers

the mobile Web presence, investing to each day. Mavi’s social media activities

improve search engine rankings, or hiring Another approach would be to try to invest include premieres of TV ad campaigns on

experienced people who can revamp in brand equity to increase “direct traffic,” suitable digital media channels. “We are

an entire approach to social media. Too in which consumers go straight to a using social media not only for promotion

often, however, retailers make one-off retailer’s online assets instead of searching and sales,” says Yavuz. “Our first goal is to

investments in social or mobile, without for generic products via a search engine. In start a dialogue with customers and create

integrating the initiative into the greater last year’s Total Retail report, “Achieving ‘word of mouth.’ So we are interacting

corporate strategy. Why does this happen? Total Retail: Consumer Expectations with customers through all social media

Gallate believes that such missteps are Driving the Next Business Model,” we channels.”

grounded in a lack of appreciation of the wrote about how retailers typically under

nuances of different platforms. perform in terms of brand value. For

example, in Interbrand’s 2013 “Best Global

Brands” list, only two retailers—Louis

Vuitton and Amazon.com—registered

21

Around the world with social media As for Europe, Italy is the only country in It is conceivable, therefore, that our results

Our global survey confirms that when which a healthy majority uses Facebook point to two possible transnational models

it comes to shopping, Facebook is the to help them shop (64%). While Facebook of the future when it comes to social

primary social network of the majority ranks first in consumer preference in every media. One is the massively networked

of our global sample. More than half of other European country we surveyed Chinese model (which is also the case for

our global sample (52%) said that they (Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, developing nations such as Brazil, India,

regularly use Facebook as part of their Switzerland, and the UK), it doesn’t break and Turkey), which can help create such

shopping experience. the 50% threshold, spanning a low of 38% phenomena as Single’s Day, which had

in Denmark and a high of 47% in Belgium. humble origins at Nanjing University just

When drilling down into the individual In the US, Facebook is used by 50% of over 20 years ago and has now exploded

national results, however, the use of social respondents, while those numbers rise into the largest 24-hour shopping

media varies significantly and becomes to 69% in South Africa and 80% in the event in the world. Another is the more

considerably more distinctive. Middle East. traditional European model (shared also

by Japan), which transcends technological

China, for example, may be the most Two paths for social media? networking for a more traditional or “laid-

socially connected country in the world, In China, when PwC presented eight back” appreciation of shopping.

but the landscape is very different than options to survey participants and asked,

the West. Blocked access to Facebook “Which of the following have you done

means that only 2% of our global sample using social media,” only 12% responded,

uses it, while their preferred social media “None of the above.” Moreover, only 5%

platforms are WeChat/Weixin, as well as of Chinese stated that they did not use

that country’s primary Internet search any social medium at all, illustrating how

provider, Baidu (57%). In Russia, 24% use integral social media is to the fabric of 56% of survey participants

Facebook, as the Russian social-networking shopping in China.

said the first thing they