SOURCE: Total Retail 2015 PwC report.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Store Competitiveness
SUMMARY: The report discusses the continued importance of physical retail stores, even in the age of online shopping, and how stores can leverage their unique advantages to compete.
KEYWORDS: physical retail, online shopping, customer experience, omnichannel, store competitiveness
---

The purchase journey–still the rest is promptly taken back to the

centered on the store store or warehouse.

If there was ever an institution that has

proven historically “powerful, long- • Even in categories where consumers

lived and adaptable,”4 it is the store. As predominantly buy online (e.g.,

shopkeepers and shops have been around consumer electronics, books), some

for centuries, it’s a pretty safe bet, mobile consumers still research online and buy

apps or not, that stores will still be around in-store—25% for consumer electronics

in very familiar forms for at least the next and 13% for books.

few decades. This year’s Total Retail survey

data strongly backs that up; in fact, in • In a similar vein, consumers purchasing

some areas we’ve found a strong bounce- in those categories that have become

back for the store from previous surveys. synonymous with online shopping

A few highlights: are still not using the online shops

exclusively, as 39% of consumers have

• When examining the reasons consumers made only “a few purchases” online for

shop online (see figure 2 on the following consumer electronics.

page) just two reasons are exclusive

for online shops and not replicable by • The online sites of brick-and-mortar

physical stores (“I can shop 24/7 online” retailers are still perceived as “non-

and “No need to travel to a physical physical” branches, not entities unto

store”). All other factors can be achieved themselves. One of the most important

by a physical store, as well. return options chosen by our survey

respondents, in fact, is “online purchase

returns available in-store” (67%).

5

Figure 2: Shoppers buy online due to price and convenience

Q: Why do you buy products online instead of in stores?

56%

Lower prices/better deals than in-store

55%

46%

I can shop 24/7 online

42%

No need to travel to a physical store 40%

Easier to compare and research products/ 32%

offers than in-store 34%

27%

Wider variety of products than in-store

26%

24%

I can only get some products online

18%

18%

Looking for a particular brand/products

16%

16%

Customer reviews of products available online

17%

12%

Better product information than in-store

11%

0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60%

2015 2014

Source: Global PwC 2015 Total Retail Survey

Base: 19,067

6

Figure 3: Shoppers buy in-store for reasons often exclusive to the physical store

Q: Why do you buy products in-store instead of online?

I am able to see, touch 60%

and try merchandise 59%

53%

To get the product immediatly

51%

I’m more certain about fit/ 33%

suitability of the product 33%

I’m more comfortable buying 25%

perishable products in-store 27%

22%

I’m able to return items easily

25%

Quicker delivery than 20%

if purchased online 17%

13%

To support local retailers

11%

I simply enjoy shopping in the physical 13%

store because of the atmosphere 13%

12%

To get the lowest price

13%

0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70%

2015 2014

Source: Global PwC 2015 Total Retail Survey

Base: 19,068

7

Challenges facing the physical store In an interview with PwC, Cushman & “There’s no doubt about it; the retail store

Yet, the retail store faces challenges. Wakefield senior vice president Jason is changing,” says Byron Carlock, the head

Deckers Brands is renowned for such Speckman pointed to how the increase in of PwC’s real estate practice in the U.S.

footwear brands as Ugg® and Teva®. e-commerce has slowed in U.S. retail foot “Formats are changing, the mix of tenants

According to John Kalinich, SVP of traffic. According to company statistics, in is changing. Retail stores are becoming

omnichannel operations and e-commerce, 2009 there were 35 billion visits, plus or an experiential venue for both online and

one major challenge of the physical minus. But by 2010, that figure had fallen non-online purchase. People go to a retail

store is that technologically enabled and to about 25 billion visits. By 2012, that store to see, touch and feel. It’s a place

empowered consumers simply don’t need number was even lower, to the low 20s to buy, a place to stimulate, and a place

to browse as much at the store. That loss of billions of visits. In 2013, it had fallen to to create new possibilities in the eyes of

foot traffic means fewer opportunities for 17 billion. the shopper.”

impulse buys.

The result is that retailers are left Two company examples give a sense of

“Digital has really disrupted this business with stores that were built to handle a the future of stores. An executive from a

tremendously as shoppers are more certain amount of traffic, even while large African retailer told PwC that the

purposeful than ever with less impulsive many consumers have chosen—and will company, whose core market comprises

purchasing,” Kalinich told PwC in an continue to choose in the years ahead— 16-24-year-olds, is seeing online traffic

interview. “They do not go out to just to make many of their purchases online. significantly driving offline sales, with “big

window shop because smart phones have growth in market share since launching

enabled them to find exactly what they are In turn, retailers make lower margins as our online store.” This reality, in fact,

looking to purchase. Gone are the days of in-house prices need to align with online parallels the findings in our research about

window shopping discovery that resulted prices, not to mention that increased price “showrooming” and “reverse showrooming.”

in impulse buys.” transparency further drives down prices

among competitors. So not only is there

In addition, it’s generally agreed that the less revenue per square foot of store space,

US, in particular, has too many stores. but less margin on that revenue, adversely

According to West Marine’s Matt Hyde, affecting profitability and making the need

the US “has seven times the retail square to optimize store footprints and develop

footage per capita of the next leading new formats all the more critical.

country.” In fact, there are approximately

100,000 stores in the country with the