SOURCE: Transitioning A GM Into Bras & Things.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Onboarding and Integration of a New General Manager
SUMMARY: Strategies for successfully transitioning a new General Manager into the Bras & Things business, including developing a shared vision, values, and business strategy.
KEYWORDS: onboarding, integration, general manager, business strategy, collaboration
---

MAY.13°33 9:28 61 2 9962 1469 . - R | 003 P

Transitioning a GM into Bras & Things

Some thoughts based on my brief exposure to Bras and Things as well as my past

experience in this area. Attached is a diagram capturing these thoughts. There will

be many other ideas ~ hope this triggers your thinking.

© ‘The incoming CEO/GM is likely to have different perspectives, operating style,

experience - this difference is potentially a highly valuable source of creative

tension which can be used to drive Bras & Things into the next phase of growth.

While hiring someone more similar to yourself may fee! easier - it may not add

as much value to the business.

« Articulate and document (briefly):

% the Vision for Bras & Things and how it fits into the Brazin portfolio of

businesses

» the core values of Bras & Things

> {he critical success factors of Bras & Things

» the non-negotiables which may be a combination or a subset of the above

This gives the candidate a real insight to the business.

® Consistency / respect of each others core values (between the MD and GM) -

may be differences on less core values - there needs to some synergy at the core

though. Often straight forward discussions about what is important me, what I'd

like to achieve, personal values etc at the outset will overt perceived conflict

later.

® / Indicate to the candidate that they will be expected to go in and immerse

/ themselves in the business in anyway they can ~ through questioning,

, vA observation etc across all parts of the business from MD through management,

stores and warehouse. They must be aware that this learning process is a key

success factor for going forward.

* Define a process that will ensure the successful candidate and the MD get to

know each other and develop a working relationship:

/ > Suggest that this process begins prior to the appointment.

» Recognition by both parties that coaching and mentoring from the MD to

the GM will be critical and will need to be more intense for the first

Ahree months.

»/GM tw feedback their perceptions of the business, ie. a SWOT as they

J go. This needs to be a process of dialogue which is underpinned by

understanding each other’s perspectives and developing / co-creating

aptions for going forward. This must be seen as a learning process not a

testing / judging process where the MD can learn how a third party

percieves aspects of business and where the MD can share his knowledge

and experience. If it becomes a testing process the GM will not be open

and learning will be constrained.

MAY.13°39 9:29 61,2 9362 1469

va

WA » Suggest that the GM and MD develop a joint business strategy for

driving the next phase of growth at Bras & Things - the preceding

information would be important input into the development of the

business strategy. While it would be easy to simply have the new GM

develop the strategy on their own and then present it to the MD for

appraisal, I believe that collaborative work early on is an essential part of

building a relationship and fostering two-way learning. This should

probably occur at the 3 month stage.

© Need to create opportunities to get to know each other personally - a successful

/ qelationship is likely to be based on both respect and like. While respect might

be sufficient - like will make this working arrangement more sustainable.

* MD to develop a strategy for working with/listening to ideas coming from the

new GM. The purpose of is not to stagnate the process of the new GM initiating

but rather to give both parties the opportunity to learn each others style. It is

important to encourage initiative from the outset, recognising that many of the

ideas may be ‘non starters’ duc to initial lack of experience, It will also help

build the new GM’s credibility in the eyes of the MD, enable the GM to learn

from the MD’s experience and identify divergent thinking early on. Effort put

in up front will assist the GM to use their initiative usefully going forward. A

simple strategy could be:

AL, the GM puts forward an idea outlining the rationale for why it will be

» beneficial, the impact on Bras & Things, a brief cost / benefit analysis

“othe MD ‘asks’ questions 'and gives feedback > more questions and Jess tell

“will:keep the GM engaged and if the idea is not an appropriate one, they

will often work this out as they answer the questions.

/ 3. develop joint, alternate strategies, joint cost / benefit analysis

4. agree the strategy for going forward

003 P03

003 P04

MAY. 13°99

+

Prior to Appointment

During first 3 months

End Month 3

3:23 61 2 9362 1469

Articulate and document:

> the Vision for Bras & Things and how

it fits into the Brazin partfolio of

businesses

> the core values of Bras & Things

> the critical success factors of Bras &

Things

> the non-negotiables which may be a

combination or a subset of the above

Discuss personal Values and goals - try

and get to know each other as people and

understand what the key drivers are for

each person

Indicate the expectation that they will be

expected to immerse themselves in the

business and then feedback perspectives

on the business — its culture, SWOT etc

Clarify importance of MD’s role as coach

and mentor

Clarify the differences berween the MD

ard GM roles and responsibilities

Clarify who will report to the GM and

who will report to the MD. |

Both the MD and GM need to discuss and

agree the process of learning and getting

to know each other.

Agree a schedule of meetings:

2 operational updates

> strategy discussions which incorporate

{

i

|

;