SOURCE: Universal Store_Behavioural Competency Dictionary.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Employee Competency
SUMMARY: A dictionary of behavioral competencies and their required levels for different roles at Universal Store.
KEYWORDS: behavioral competencies, employee assessment, performance standards
---

Universal Store

BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCY

DICTIONARY

2017

BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCY DICTIONARY

Indicative Level Required for

Area Manager

FT Warehouse Store Managers Ops Support

Gompefene Sales Team- Store and Team leaders VM Regional Manager Blank column?

P y Warehouse Casual 2IC up to 1.5 2IC over 1.5 million | Online Customer

million Service

Achievement Drive (Results Orientation) 2 2-3 3 4 4

Adaptability 1 2 3 3 3

Attention to Detail 2 2-3 3 4 4

Confidence 2 1 2 3 3

Critical Information Seeking 1 2 3 4 4

Customer Service Orientation 2 2 3 3 3

Developing Others 1 2 2-3 4 4

Directing Others 1 2-3 2-3 4 4

Entrepreneurial Innovation 1 2 2-3 3 4

Integrity 2 3 3 3 3

Interpersonal Effectiveness 2-3 2-3 3 4-5 5

Personal Influence (sales ability) 2 2 3 4 5

Proactivity 1 2 3 4 4

Problem Solving (Analytical Thinking) 1-2 1-2 3 4 4

Quality of Thinking (Conceptual Thinking) 2 2 3-4 4 5

Relationship Building 1-2 2-3 3 3 4

Safety Orientation 1-2 2 2-3 3 3

Self Control 1 1-2 3 3 3

Team Leadership NA 1-2 3 4 4

Teamwork 1-2 2 3 3 3

Technical Expertise 1-2 2 3 3-4 4

Universal Spirit 2 3 3 3 3

Updated 18/5/2017

Page 1 of 13

BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCY DICTIONARY

Competency

Definition

Levels - What this looks like

Achievement

Drive (Results

Orientation)

The desire to set and achieve

challenging goals based on a belief that

close isn’t good enough. Strives to be

better than good. Individuals with

Achievement Drive do what they say

they will do, and enjoy a challenge.

People who want to see things get

completed and make things happen.

All work tasks are completed on time

and in an efficient manner.

Gets the job done.

Wants to do the job well. Strives to meet set targets and tries to do the job well. May express frustration about

inefficiency but does not create specific improvements.

Strives to exceed expectations. Works to exceed set targets and persists in achieving a standard of excellence that goes

beyond expectations. Willingly accepts additional work or challenges, says “yes” to reasonable requests. Would rather

finish a job than leave it until the following day.

Improves performance. Finds better, faster, less expensive or more efficient ways to do things. Independently sets and

acts to achieve specific, measurable, challenging but attainable goals for self and others. Ensures that projects are

completed thoroughly and on time. Constantly pushes for results.

Takes calculated risks. Makes decisions, sets priorities, chooses goals or focuses effort on the basis of maximum benefit

to the organisation. Leaders with Achievement Drive understand the Universal Store business model, and use it to develop

blueprints for their business/function, including plans for growth.

Negative Indicators

Makes excuses for why things didn’t get done. Wastes time and is inefficient. Blames others or external factors for failures or

missed targets. Avoids responsibility and discusses why “that won't work” without looking for ways to achieve outcomes.

Leaves work unfinished rather than put in extra effort.

Adaptability

Open Minded for Change - works out

HOW to get it done. The ability to

adapt to and work effectively with a

variety of situations and individuals.

Easily adapts to changes in job

requirements and welcomes change

into their work.

Demonstrates capability to change or

go with the flow.

1. Appreciates the need for flexibility. Recognises the validity of others’ viewpoints. Is willing to try something new.

2. Adapts actions to accomplish organisational or team priorities. Sees the merits of differing positions or alternative

viewpoints. Can handle different roles when required. Willing to make do with what they have to work with when required

and achieve outcomes in unusual circumstances.

3. Adapts own strategies, goals or projects to suit the situation. Can adopt different and multiple roles within a changing

environment. Creatively utilise their skills in areas new or different to what they may be used to.

Negative Indicators

Despite obvious problems, is unwilling to change own point of view or work practice. Does not recognise others’ views as valid.

Displays “that's not my job” attitude. Struggles to adapt when work organisation, processes and/or priorities change. Takes a

long time to come to grips with changes that the business needs to make. Halts progress because they are unwilling to adapt.

Updated 18/5//2017

Page 2 of 13

BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCY DICTIONARY

Competency

Definition

Levels - What this looks like

Attention to Detail

A concern for ensuring clarity, accuracy

and quality of work. Includes the desire

to clear things up, put things right.

Ensures the work they do is accurate so

that they support the major outcomes

associated to the work they do.

Appreciates the knock-on effect of their

work and so they ensure accuracy in

their area of responsibility.

1. Maintains an orderly working style. Files, papers, equipment etc kept tidy and in good order. Demonstrates a general

concern for order and clarity. Able to access notes and emails.

2. Checks own work for accuracy and ensures that procedures have been properly followed and work is accurate. Finishes

tasks completely and on time with no loose ends.

3. Monitors data or projects. Monitors progress of a project against objectives or deadlines. Monitors data, discovers

weaknesses or missing data, and seeks out information to keep order. Double checks the accuracy of information, own

work, or the work of others.

4. Develops and uses systems to organise and keep track of information, and improve quality. Takes immediate action

when errors are discovered and appreciates the need to pass on such information.

Negative Indicators

Tolerates disorder and poor quality of work. Lacks concern for deadlines or accuracy. Gives excuses for errors and fails to

double check work for accuracy and neatness.

Confidence -

A demonstrated belief in one’s

capability to select an appropriate

approach to a problem or situation, or to

accomplish an objective.

Includes confidence in one’s

judgement or opinion. Can find their

voice to speak up in increasingly

challenging circumstances. Has the