SOURCE: Universal Store_Behavioural Competency Dictionary.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Workplace Engagement and Culture
SUMMARY: Effectively engages with colleagues, creates a positive work environment, and demonstrates professional behavior while using humor appropriately.
KEYWORDS: workplace culture, employee engagement, professional conduct, humor, positive attitude
---

customers/colleagues. Brings own personality to work and engages others while being effective in the job.

3. Motivates others in a way that makes work fun. Makes suggestions and coaches others in creating a positive and

memorable experience for customers/colleagues. Monitors others’ reactions and adjusts their behaviours appropriately,

ensuring that safety and professionalism are not compromised. Uses humour effectively, not to hurt others. Lives the

Values and makes the world a more welcoming place inside and outside of work.

Negative Indicators

Projects a negative attitude. Is unable to laugh at self. Lacks energy, enthusiasm and humour. Moody and complaining rather

than making work fun and enjoyable for all.

OR

Goes too far — fails to gauge audience responses and or doesn't modify behaviour appropriately. Compromises professionalism

and/or safety in the name of “fun”. Uses humour unprofessionally and causes harm.

Updated 18/5/2017

Page 12 of 13

BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCY DICTIONARY

LEADERSHIP

BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCIES

DRIVING THE AGENDA MAKE IT WORK

Achievement Drive (Results Orientation): The desire to set and achieve challenging goals based on a

dissatisfaction with the status quo. Individuals with Achievement Drive do what they say they will do, and

deliver the goods.

Entrepreneurial Innovation: Developing new ideas beyond the initial concept into business

propositions within Universal Store's business model. Leaders with this competency display and support

calculated risk-taking and innovation.

Critical Information Seeking: Dissatisfaction with the obvious and a drive to establish what is at the

core of an issue. Individuals with this competency develop extensive resources and go to exceptional

lengths to gather information that is relevant to business outcomes. They also demonstrate an

understanding of the wider business or industry context.

MAKING AN IMPACT CONTRIBUTE

Personal Influence: The ability to convince others of a view, conclusion or position. Includes

overcoming objections in a structured and persuasive manner, and gaining commitment.

Relationship Building: Working to build or maintain friendly relationships or networks with people who

are, or May someday be, useful in achieving work-related goals.

Teamwork: The willingness and ability to work co-operatively and collaboratively with others, and the

versatility to take on different work roles. It includes the ability to adapt to work with a variety of

situations, individuals or groups.

KNOWING YOUR STUFF BETTER THAN GOOD

Quality of Thinking (Conceptual Thinking): The intellectual capability to identify patterns or

connections between situations that are not obviously related, and to identify the key underlying issues in

complex situations.

Technical Expertise: Mastery of the body of job-related knowledge, skills and abilities. Includes the

motivation to continually develop technical capability, and pass on knowledge to others.

Confidence: A demonstrated belief in one’s capability to select an appropriate approach to a problem or

situation or to accomplish an objective. It includes confidence in one’s judgement or opinion, expressed

in increasingly challenging circumstances, and the ability to handle set-backs effectively.

BRINGING THE TEAM WITH YOU HERE TO HELP

Team Leadership: The ability to develop teamwork and co-operation whilst leading a team of people.

articulating a vision and purpose for the team and motivating people to fulfil that purpose.

Directing Others: Using personal and/or positional power appropriately and effectively to ensure that

team members fulfil their job requirements. Leaders with this competency set standards, demand high

performance and set limits for others’ behaviour.

Developing Others: The development or improvement of team members’ skills by providing specific

feedback, development opportunities and coaching.

PERSONAL LEADERSHIP CARE FOR EVERYONE

Universal Spirit: The desire to create a memorable, positive and fun experience for all. Champion of Universal Store Values. Makes the World a more Welcoming place for all.

Integrity: “Walking the talk”, where actions are consistent with beliefs and values. The ability to welcome both positive and negative feedback, and to admit to having made mistakes. These Managers are

unambiguous and direct in the communication of their intentions, ideas and feelings. This direct and candid manner fosters trust from others and lets all team members know they matter.

Safety Orientation: An uncompromising commitment to the health and safety of customers, fellow team members and the general public.

Updated 18/5/2017

Page 13 of 13