SOURCE: Universal Store_Behavioural Competency Dictionary.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Emotional Intelligence
SUMMARY: The text discusses the ability to manage emotions effectively in the workplace, avoiding negative behavior that can disrupt teamwork and productivity.
KEYWORDS: emotional control, team leadership, workplace behavior
---

tackles situations that may be Negative Indicators

unpleasant in a controlled manner. Loses control. Own emotions can interfere with work effectiveness. Cites frustration and/or other negative emotions and

May seek support from a leader before | expresses feelings inappropriately; or gets inappropriately involved personally with,other team members or customers.

taking action. Engages in gossip which blames others, or circumstances for failure. Avoids people or situations that provoke negative

emotions which impacts ability to achieve work related goals.

Updated 18/5//2017

Page 10 of 13

BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCY DICTIONARY

Competency Definition Levels - What this looks like

Team The ability to develop teamwork and co- | 1. Informs people. Lets people affected by a decision know what is happening. Makes sure the group has all the necessary

Leadership operation whilst leading a group of information. May explain the reasons for a decision. Sets clear expectations.

people, articulating a purpose for the

group and motivating people to fulfil that

purpose.

Creates environments for high

achievement and success in a

harmonious environment.

2. Sets and communicates clear standards for performance. Keeps people informed, clear and up to date. Uses

authority fairly. Works to resolve conflicts or differences. Ensures successful completion of group tasks. Asks for input to

ensure that members of the group contribute.

3. Promotes team effectiveness. Uses a variety of strategies to promote team morale and productivity. Gives credit or

recognition to others who have contributed to success. Acts to develop an atmosphere of teamwork and cooperation.

4. Positions self as leader. Ensure that others buy into leader's mission, goals, agenda, climate, tone, and policy.

Encourages initiative and innovation. Sets a good example - models desired behaviour. Ensures that group tasks are

completed (is a credible leader). Makes sure the practical needs of the group are met.

Negative Indicators

Plays favourites and destroys the team through actions or gossip. Abdicates leadership responsibility. Fails to lead even when

team are floundering and obviously need direction.Expects people to know the desired outcome, fails to communicate. Exhibits

behaviours they would not allow from others.

Teamworking

The willingness and ability to work co-

operatively and collaboratively with

others and the versatility to take on

different work roles when required.

This includes the ability to adapt to work

with a variety of situations, individuals

or groups.

Working to build team morale and focus

on shared goals rather than spreading

negativity.

1. Co-operates with other team members and participates willingly in team activities. Demonstrates respect for other team

members’ contributions and a willingness to learn from them. Willingly does whatever work is necessary to get the job

done successfully. Promotes team work through proactive and open communication.

2. Looks at ways to help other team members complete their work. Sets a good example through enthusiasm and public

commitment to team goals. Encourages other team members and publicly acknowledges those who have performed well.

Protects and promotes group reputation with outsiders.

3. Builds team effectiveness. Promotes a positive team environment to maximise performance of the team. Helps

individuals to focus on team results. Celebrates individual and team successes. Recognises and positively acts when

team results are below par. Identifies opportunities for learning or sharing information across teams. Resolves conflicts

within team and with Managers.

Negative Indicators

Tends to isolate self from team. Selfish or uncooperative. Leaves others to sort out difficult situations on their own. Fails to

pass relevant information on to team members. Lowers team morale by failure to acknowledge/belittling other members’

contributions. Pursues own agenda at expense of team results. Fails to encourage cooperation within and between teams.

Encourages unhelpful inter-team rivalry.

Updated 18/5/2017

Page 11 of 13

BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCY DICTIONARY

Competency Definition Levels - What this looks like

Technical Mastery of job-related knowledge, skills | 1. Maintains current technical knowledge. Makes self aware of the latest information. Actively keeps skills up to date.

Expertise and abilities. Includes the motivation to Helps resolve others’ technical problems

continually develop technical capability

and pass on knowledge to others

Concerned with increasing capability of

the technical aspects of the job.

Keeping up with technology, new tools

and new ways of doing things.

2. Expands knowledge base. Acts on own to improve both the depth and range of specialist knowledge. Learns from own

experience and mistakes. Offers technical help, makes self available to help others solve technical/professional problems

3. Seeks ways to align technical expertise with company direction. Looks for ways to leverage personal expertise to help

Universal Store in a way that will truly add value. Systematically evaluates own successes and failures.

4. Seeks inputs from areas outside of one’s specific area of technical expertise, and seeks to incorporate these into a broad

view of how one's capabilities can help add value to Universal Store.

Negative Indicators

Avoids adding to existing knowledge or has excuses for failure to expand their skills which are not valid. Resists new ideas and

techniques. Hoards knowledge. Claims “no one ever showed me how to...” and has also never asked anyone who can help

them.

Universal Spirit

A desire to create memorable and

positive experiences for all. The ability

to have fun, making it fun for customers

and each other.

Brings the best self to work, contributes

to the environment with positivity and

treats others with openness and

kindness.

Makes the world a more welcoming

place.

1. Has an upbeat approach to the job. Can read a situation and when appropriate, share a joke or laugh with customers

and/or colleagues. Has an enthusiastic approach and shows they enjoy the job. Makes others feel welcome.

2. Injects own personality into the job. Comes up with novel ways of creating a positive and memorable experience for

customers/colleagues. Brings own personality to work and engages others while being effective in the job.

3. Motivates others in a way that makes work fun. Makes suggestions and coaches others in creating a positive and

memorable experience for customers/colleagues. Monitors others’ reactions and adjusts their behaviours appropriately,