SOURCE: Universal Store_Behavioural Competency Dictionary.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Employee Competency
SUMMARY: The text discusses the competency of confidence, which involves belief in one's abilities, assertiveness, and handling criticism effectively.
KEYWORDS: confidence, self-belief, assertiveness, feedback, competency
---

double check work for accuracy and neatness.

Confidence -

A demonstrated belief in one’s

capability to select an appropriate

approach to a problem or situation, or to

accomplish an objective.

Includes confidence in one’s

judgement or opinion. Can find their

voice to speak up in increasingly

challenging circumstances. Has the

ability to handle set-backs effectively.

Is open to feedback and does not take

criticism personally.

1. Presents self confidently. Approaches new challenges with a position “can-do” attitude. Expresses confidence about

own perception or viewpoint. Expresses and exercises good judgement. Works well without constant supervision.

2. Maintains own decisions in the face of opposition or criticism from others. Presents self confidently and professionally.

Makes or acts on decisions. Accepts full responsibility when things go wrong, and acknowledges personal successes

without displaying arrogance.

3. Asserts claims self confidently. States own position clearly in conflicts. Gives facts directly, confronts difficulties head

on. Takes risky positions — is able to go out on a limb and remain comfortable. Actions support or justify verbal expression

of self-confidence. Leaders expressing self-confidence causes team to feel confident to deal with tough situations.

Negative Indicators

Acts out of a need for the approval of others. Makes bad decisions because they don't want to upset others. Rationalises or

blames others or circumstances for failure. Avoids challenges. Defers to others. Lacks confidence in own abilities and

judgement. Displays arrogance and belittles others in order to make themselves feel confident.

Updated 18/5/2017

Page 3 of 13

BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCY DICTIONARY

Competency

Definition

Levels - What this looks like

Critical

Information

Seeking

Dissatisfaction with the problems and

drives to discover what is at the core of

an issue. Individuals with this

competency will develop extensive

resources and go to exceptional lengths

to gather information that is relevant to

achieve the best outcomes.

They also demonstrate an

understanding of the wider business or

industry context. They find out the

necessary information before they

make decisions.

1. Asks questions. Asks direct questions of immediately available people (or people who are directly involved in the

situation), consults available resources.

2. Personally investigates. Asks a series of direct “who, what, why” type questions. Takes personal responsibility for

investigating a problem or situation. Accesses information and uses prompts from immediate team or environment.

3. Digs deeper, gets diagnostic. Has a curiosity and keen desire to gain full clarity about a situation or problem. Takes a

planned approach to questioning. Digs below the surface for the root cause of the problem by asking a series of probing

questions. Investigates outside the immediate environment and beyond immediate and obvious sources.

4. Goes to exceptional lengths to gather business relevant information. Has highly developed information sources for

efficient and effective access to information. Information sources are likely to include a number of people networks, (eg

customers, suppliers, recognised experts, reporting) as well as technical sources (eg consultants, internet, market research

etc). Identifies and exploits the most appropriate and efficient resources for the discovery of information. Identifies and

tests contradictory information.

Negative Indicators

Does not seek additional information about a situation, other than what has been given. Disregards available information or

information sources. Uses only feelings for basis of decision making. Fails to follow up when concerning data or information is

discovered.

Customer

Service

Orientation

(Internal and

External)

A demonstrated desire to help or serve

others. Both external customers and

internal customers are shown a high

degree of care. Strives to understand

and meet others’ needs. Anticipates the

needs of both actual and prospective

customers and takes action to meet

them.

Works to build rapport with customers

to establish needs and serve them.

Values all customers. External - returns,

sales, problems and lookers.

Internal - co-workers, stores, suppliers.

1. Meets customers’ immediate needs. Follows through on customer enquiries, requests, and complaints. Ensures

customer's immediate needs are met. Demonstrates a strong desire to serve and appropriately match needs. Easily builds

rapport with a moderate range of customers/others.

2. Follows up on and overcomes objections and queries. Gets to know specific information about others. Works to fully

understand needs, concerns and issues. Listens and responds to objections; monitors satisfaction. Uses a variety of

questions to discover the full picture. Probes sensitively to establish needs. Builds easy rapport with a wide variety of ages

and customer demographics. Demonstrates they have really listened and heard the customer.

3. Takes full personal responsibility for building rapport and correcting problems with all customers. Gives Customers their

full attention, particularly during busy periods when they are juggling other responsibilities. Works to make all customers

feel at home and builds trust. Appreciates others — understands and addresses their underlying needs. Wants each

person to feel special. Works with others across Universal Store to maximise service to the customer. Adapts to changes

in customer requirements. Makes people feel welcome and appreciated.

Negative Indicators - does not drop and go.

Expresses negativity toward customers or co-workers. Expresses lack of clarity about needs. Makes frequent incorrect

assumptions and interpretations. Fails to check understanding of information when objections are raised. Gives an immediate

“off the cuff’ response to questions. Prioritises tasks over service.

Updated 18/5/2017

Page 4 of 13

BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCY DICTIONARY

Competency

Definition

Levels - What this looks like

Developing

Others

The development or improvement of

team members’ skills by providing

specific feedback, development

opportunities and coaching.

Team leaders Diagnoses D levels well

and provide targeted supervision.

Creates environments to encourage

development.

Tells others directly how to do the job. Gives helpful hints to improve performance or on-the-job demonstrations.

Takes time to listen to others’ task-related problems. Takes opportunities to pass on job-related knowledge. Devotes

significant time to providing task related help or supervised practice for others.

Provides behaviourally specific feedback and suggestions for improvement. Makes positive comments regarding

others’ abilities or potential, even in difficult cases. Believes others want to and can learn. Asks questions, makes time to

observe, or uses other methods to verify that others have understood explanation or directions. Does not shy away from