SOURCE: Universal Store_Behavioural Competency Dictionary.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Analysis
SUMMARY: Analyzes data, identifies solutions, and determines the best course of action to address business needs.
KEYWORDS: data analysis, problem-solving, decision-making, business impact, strategic thinking
---

predicts the business impact of various plans or actions. Uses several analytical techniques to understand data or

information. Identifies several solutions. Assesses the business or technical value of a variety of solutions and determines

best course of action.

Negative Indicators

Responds to immediate needs or requests without considering longer-term requirements. Fails to spot cause and effect

relationships. Similar problems continue to arise due to lack of analytical approach. Creates solutions that have negative

impacts in other areas without giving consideration to broader needs.

Updated 18/5/2017

Page 8 of 13

BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCY DICTIONARY

Competency Definition Levels - What this looks like

Quality of The intellectual capability to identify 1. Sees Patterns. Sees patterns, trends or missing pieces of information when looking at a situation. Notices when a current

Thinking patterns or connections between Situation is similar to a past situation and identifies the similarities. Understands how one's tasks relate to the workgroup or

(Conceptual situations, and to identify the underlying business.

Thinking) issues in complex situations. 2. Makes connections between facts and events that are not readily obvious. Spots recurring process or technical issues.

Identifies key issues in a complex problem

3. Sees patterns and applies them to existing frameworks. Relates the implications of events in the external environment

to the work unit or group. Uses knowledge of different past events to look at current situations. Applies and modifies

complex learned concepts or methods. Fits information into models and frameworks.

4. Clarifies complex data or situations. Presents new ideas or information to others in ways that make sense and without

over-complicating things. Takes large amounts of complex data and quickly summarises, simplifies or organises it so that

others can understand it. Assembles ideas or issues into a clear and useful explanation.

5. Creates new concepts or frameworks. Formulates a useful approach, tool or process for complex problems or

situations. Generates and tests multiple approaches for a given situation. Makes good decisions based on high quality of

thinking capability.

Negative Indicators

Can't make links. Thinks very concretely and jumps to conclusions without evidence. Everything is black and white. Data only.

Makes poor decisions based only on rules. Lacks ability to read the situation and apply the best solution.

Relationship Works to build or maintain friendly 1. Accepts invitations. Accepts greetings or other friendly overtures from others, has basic level working relationships.

Building relationships or networks with people 2. Makes a conscious effort to build rapport with colleagues and customers on non-work related issues. Creates mutuality

who are, or may someday be, useful in or common ground with others (not necessarily based on liking). Cultivates work-related personal relationships. Knows

achieving work related goals. others and feels known.

3. Proactively develops and uses networks of contacts. Frequently initiates/pursues friendly relationships with colleagues

and customers in a professional but friendly manner. Works with others for the purpose of increasing interaction and

building relationships among influential groups, which fit the values and safety consciousness of the business. (Centre

Management, suppliers, networking, other business entities, Warehouse, stores, online team etc.)

Negative Indicators

Avoids social interaction with key contacts. Does not go out of way to establish good working and/or business relationships.

Attempts to break bonds between others via gossip or negativity. Treats others in terms of their work output rather than as a

human being. “What can you do for me” attitude. Becomes too close to colleagues or team to make good decisions.

Updated 18/5/2017

Page 9 of 13

BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCY DICTIONARY

Competency Definition Levels - What this looks like

Safety Orientation | An uncompromising commitment to the | 1. Understands and follows all safety requirements and procedures.

health and safety of customers, fellow | 2. Considers the safety implications and potential risks of own and other's actions, and takes appropriate steps to ensure

team members and the general public. things are done as safely as possible. Considers the emotional impact of decisions and communications.

3. Constantly looks for and assesses potential safety risks and takes swift and decisive action to address potentially

Maintains a clean, safe environment unsafe situations. Fully investigates “near misses’ to prevent recurrence. Knows team members well enough to spot if they

and actively promotes safety. are not OK.

Considers safety in terms of physical

and emotional terms. Notices the Negative Indicators

needs of others to be included as well | Takes shortcuts which compromise safety. Turns a blind eye to unsafe behaviour in others. Fails to do any unpleasant tasks eg

as physically unharmed. rubbish removal, cleaning spills etc. Notices others in distress and does nothing and alerts no one. Does not follow WHS

guidelines.

Self Control The ability to keep one’s emotions 1. Controls emotions. Feels strong emotions such as anger or frustration, but does not let them show except in appropriate

under control, (maintain output and and controlled ways. Works well under pressure.

restrain negative behaviour) when 2. Remains calm in stressful situations whilst holding one's position. Shows patience with others. Expresses a positive

faced with opposition or hostility from “can do” attitude. Accepts responsibility for mistakes rather than blame others and lose emotional control.

others, and to hold one’s position under | 3. Responds constructively. Controls strong emotions or other stress and takes action to respond constructively to the

stressful conditions. source of the problems. Bases decisions and actions on available information or facts (not emotional reaction). Can take a

stand and speak up with professionalism, integrity and dignity in stressful situations. Responds calmly and firmly when

Maintain a home/work balance that confronted with hostility. Responds constructively to deal with underlying issues and calms others in stressful situations,

supports own health. Is brave and

tackles situations that may be Negative Indicators

unpleasant in a controlled manner. Loses control. Own emotions can interfere with work effectiveness. Cites frustration and/or other negative emotions and

May seek support from a leader before | expresses feelings inappropriately; or gets inappropriately involved personally with,other team members or customers.