SOURCE: Universal Store_Behavioural Competency Dictionary.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Employee Development and Coaching
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for effectively managing, coaching, and developing team members to improve their performance and potential.
KEYWORDS: employee development, coaching, performance management, feedback, delegation
---

others’ abilities or potential, even in difficult cases. Believes others want to and can learn. Asks questions, makes time to

observe, or uses other methods to verify that others have understood explanation or directions. Does not shy away from

giving feedback. Makes time to observe performance and gives feedback expertly.

Does long-term coaching or training. Arranges appropriate and helpful assignments, training or other experiences for

the purpose of fostering the other person’s learning and development. Gives encouragement to improve motivation and

recognition for accomplishments. Delegates full authority and responsibility to competent team members, including the

opportunity to make mistakes and learn from them. Makes own thought process transparent to others in order to model

important behaviours.

Negative Indicators

Shows little concern with providing helpful, behaviourally specific feedback and coaching. Does not provide opportunities for

discussing problems or development issues. Expresses negative expectations of others. Has a “pace setter” only management

style and does their job well expecting others to simply model them. Takes over tasks and doesn’t share information.

Directing Others

Using personal and/or positional power

appropriately and effectively to ensure

that team members fulfil their job

requirements. Workers and Leaders

with this competency set standards,

demand high performance and set

limits for others’ behaviour.

Tasks and assignments are clear and

provided in ADVANCE. Clarity in all

requirements is established and well

communicated.

1.

2.

Gives basic, routine directions. Gives adequate directions, makes needs and requirements reasonably clear.

Sets clear objectives and measures of performance. Gives others an explanation of business or workgroup objectives.

Ensures they set their objectives in line with total business objectives. Ensures clear measures of performance are set.

Gives specific instructions on how to perform a task and deliver on objectives.

Monitors others’ performance. Openly and actively monitors performance against agreed standards and outcomes.

Discusses performance problems openly and directly. Works closely with others to identify ways to improve their

performance. Clearly suggests methods or alternatives for improving performance.

Identifies performance issues and improves people’s effectiveness. Assesses performance against standards and

acts to improve performance outcomes through clarity and directness. Addresses performance problems in a timely way.

Gives behavioural feedback on performance problems. Clearly states consequences of continued poor performance.

Recognises and reinforces positive performance and achievement of standards. Delegates functional or lower-level work,

keeping self free for higher priorities.

Negative Indicators

Tolerates poor performance. Gives in to others’ requests even when doing so interferes with getting the main job done. Is more

concerned with being liked (or not upsetting or angering other people) than with getting the work done properly. May express

negative expectations of team or colleagues. Does not set clear objectives or share information required to achieve a good

outcome.

Updated 18/5/2017

Page 5 of 13

BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCY DICTIONARY

Competency

Definition

Levels - What this looks like

Entrepreneurial

Innovation

Developing new ideas beyond the initial

concept into business propositions

within the Universal Store business

model. Leaders with this competency

display and support calculated risk-

taking and innovation.

1. Anticipates situations and acts to create opportunities or avoid problems. Establishes priorities on the basis of short and

long term considerations, committing to action or to holding back as appropriate.

2. Anticipates long term opportunities and requirements and formulates plans to meet them. Habitually and

systematically considers potential profit, or added value, in evaluating a course of action. Envisions the

results/consequences of new ideas or concepts. Encourages and sponsors innovation.

3. Considers alternative courses of action, weighing the long term and short term commercial consequences of each.

Takes calculated entrepreneurial risks, committing time and/or resources in the face of uncertainty, and managing the risks

involved.

4. Anticipates situations many years ahead and acts to create opportunities for delivering step change improvements in

business performance.

Negative Indicators

Uses formulaic solutions. Avoids taking risks, or takes ill-considered risks. Fails to commit to action. Gives up when faced with

difficulties or opposition or loses self-control and blames others. Copies others success rather than adding unique value.

Integrity

“Walks the talk” - where actions are

consistent with beliefs and values. The

ability to welcome both positive and

negative feedback and to admit to

having made mistakes.

Leaders are direct and clear in the

communication of their intentions, ideas

and feelings. This direct and candid

manner fosters trust from others who

know where they stand. Games are not

played and the integrity of the team is

maintained.

1. Is open and honest in all situations. Demonstrates belief in and commitment to Universal Store's values by acting

consistently with the values. Recognises that everyone, including self, can make mistakes. |s direct and honest in all

customer, supplier, co-worker relations and negotiations.

2. Takes actions which are consistent with Values. |s passionate about company values and actively demonstrates

support for values. Is open to hear and give critical feedback.

3. Acts on Values even in the face of opposition. Speaks out even when it might be difficult. Able to admit to having made

a mistake. Communicates bad news upwards and quickly. Openly welcomes feedback or seeks out feedback. Practices

“straight talk". Will not tolerate unethical business practices. Creates a climate that is safe for “telling it as it is’.

e Negative Indicators

Actions are inconsistent with Universal Store values. May conceal information, be evasive, or behave unethically.

Updated 18/5/2017

Page 6 of 13

BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCY DICTIONARY

Competency Definition Levels - What this looks like

Interpersonal The desire and ability to win the 1. Is concerned with creating a good impression and makes attempts to gain approval.

Effectiveness approval of other people, particularly 2. Able to develop quick, initial rapport with others. Smiles a lot, establishes good eye contact, listens responsively and is

customers and internal customers. easy to listen to. Actively works at developing rapport and gaining approval.

3. Actively builds relationships. Uses non-verbal skills and body language effectively. Is sensitive to cultural differences.

Interpersonal effectiveness includes the Actively reads the moods and feelings of others (eg looks for signs of nervousness or confusion and reassures).