SOURCE: Universal Store_Behavioural Competency Dictionary.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Interpersonal Effectiveness
SUMMARY: The text discusses the ability to understand and respond appropriately to the unspoken thoughts, feelings, and concerns of others, regardless of background.
KEYWORDS: interpersonal skills, cultural sensitivity, emotional intelligence, rapport building, influence
---

3. Actively builds relationships. Uses non-verbal skills and body language effectively. Is sensitive to cultural differences.

Interpersonal effectiveness includes the Actively reads the moods and feelings of others (eg looks for signs of nervousness or confusion and reassures).

desire and ability to understand the 4. Understands peoples’ thoughts and feelings. Understands unspoken thoughts or feelings and modifies interactions.

unspoken or partly expressed thoughts, Detects the concerns, interests or emotions which lie behind what people say. Easily establishes rapport with different

feelings and concerns of other people, sorts of people. . ; ; ;

irrespective of nationality, age, sexual | 5: Draws inferences from people's thoughts or feelings. Draws inferences about others concerns and interests. Is

orientation, religious affiliation or capable of accurate assessment and sensitivity to the underlying complex root causes for individual or group behaviour

background, and to respond patterns. Readily understands others’ strengths and limitations. Acknowledges and understands others’ differing

appropriately. perspective.

Negative Indicators

Unsympathetic and/or righteous. Is not concerned with being liked - “take me or leave me” attitude. Sees others primarily in

terms of racial or gender stereotypes or in terms of their job and how it affects them. Misunderstands others’ feelings or actions.

May ignore or offend people. When they are “right” they don't care how others who are “wrong” feel about it.

Personal

Influence

(Sales Ability with

both products and

ideas)

The ability to convince others of an

idea, outcome or change required. It

includes overcoming objections in a

structured and persuasive manner, and

gaining commitment from others in

order to achieve the outcome.

Ability to get the team to join you or

follow your ideas.

ip

Takes a single action to persuade others. Uses direct influence to gain buy-in. Takes a single action to persuade others

to take a direction. Appeals solely to reason.

2. Anticipates and prepares for other’s reactions. Adapts responses to appeal to others’ views or ideas. Takes two or

more steps to persuade. Includes careful preparation of materials for presentations or discussions.

3. Calculates the impact of one’s actions or words. Adapts presentation or discussion to appeal to the interest and level of

the audience. Able to identify key decision makers.

4. Uses indirect influence to gain buy in. Uses chains of indirect influence. Considers the full range of stakeholders

relevant to a particular decision and develops influencing strategies accordingly. Uses experts or third parties to influence.

Uses varied and imaginative tactics to gain support.

5. Uses complex influencing strategies. Uses varied strategies and influencing styles to achieve end result. Makes

complex, staged arguments. Builds behind-the-scenes support for ideas. Uses “group process” skills to lead or direct a

group.

Negative Indicators

Shows little concern for the need to influence others. Makes political blunders. Ineffective in presenting a case; unable to

present convincing arguments that address the needs of others. Shows no attempt to influence or persuade others. Own

emotions may interfere with work effectiveness.

Updated 18/5/2017

Page 7 of 13

BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCY DICTIONARY

Competency Definition Levels - What this looks like

Proactivity A bias for taking action, doing more 1. Responds to requests. Responds to others’ requests in a timely, co-operative manner.

than required, doing it before it is 2. Proactively addresses current opportunities in own work area. \dentifies problems or makes suggestions on how to

required. Proactivity involves doing

things, not just thinking about them. It

includes being innovative and

persistent, and looking to the future.

Anticipates operational or customer

requirements and adjusts own actions

accordingly.

Achieves work deadlines not just

Starting projects proactively and failing

to commit to proactively completing.

improve processes within the team or direct work environment. Anticipates requirements and takes action before being

asked. Alerts Manager to larger problems.

3. Identifies and acts on opportunities. Creates opportunities or minimises potential problems. Identifies problems or

possibilities for improvement and acts on them. Prevents reoccurrences of the same or similar problem. Takes action in

areas beyond direct personal responsibility. Questions the way things are done and makes changes. Recognises good

ideas from others and builds on them.

4. Looks or listens for “problems in the making”. Does not wait for things to blow up but pro-actively looks for problems to

solve. Identifies and tackles problems that would affect the business. Identifies a range of ideas or options for tackling

problems. Anticipates and prepares for opportunities that are not obvious to others. Constructively challenges long held

beliefs or processes.

Negative Indicators

Blocks forward action. May make negative remarks such as “ it won't work here, no one cares, it's not worth the time”. Avoids

taking responsibility and does not attempt to solve problems. Puts work off and allows time lines to blow out. Finds reasons why

others’ suggestions won't work to halt action and progress.

Problem Solving

(Analytical

Thinking)

The ability to break down a problem or

situation into its component parts,

identifying implications, time frames,

sequences and causal relationships

1. Uses accepted theories, Breaks down problems or situations into component parts. Analyses situations logically to

identify causes and draws logical conclusions. Recognises cause and effect relationships. Sets priorities with an

appropriate sense of what is most important or urgent.

2. Sees basic links. Makes sense of information by organising it. Thinks through priorities, and anticipates the

consequences of different courses of action. Identifies root causes.

3. Sees multiple relationships. Analyses relationships among several parts of a problem or situation. Breaks down a

complex task into manageable parts in a systematic way. Recognises several likely causes of events, or several

consequences of actions. Generally anticipates obstacles and thinks ahead about next steps.

4. Identifies the key issues in a complex situation. Quickly gets to the heart of complex data or problems. Accurately

predicts the business impact of various plans or actions. Uses several analytical techniques to understand data or

information. Identifies several solutions. Assesses the business or technical value of a variety of solutions and determines

best course of action.

Negative Indicators