SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Partnership Strategy
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's high expectations and professional negotiation approach with suppliers like Procter & Gamble created mutual benefits and changed customer-supplier relationships worldwide.
KEYWORDS: Wal-Mart, Supplier Relationships, Retail Partnerships, Customer-Supplier Dynamics, Negotiation Approach
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Wal-Mart’s expectations of suppliers are high but fair and their tough negotiation is always conducted in a professional and principled manner to better serve their customers. The Wal-

Mart/Procter & Gamble partnership approach created tremendous benefits for both companies and changed the face of customer/supplier relationships worldwide.

—Tom Muccio, retired president of Procter & Gamble Global

Customer Teams and team leader of Procter & Gamble’s Wal-Mart team

OrangeGlo’s Simple Formula for Success

How does a company go from creating, testing, refining, and manufacturing home cleaning products in the garage—using a secondhand Maytag washer as the mixer—to grow into a major world supplier of thirty household cleaning products with great brand recognition, including OxyClean,KaBoom, and others? Max Appel and his wife had a simple formula that included hard work and a dogged determination to test every sales channel.

The Appels began selling a variety of their homegrown products at home shows and state fairs in and around Colorado in 1985.

Through countless hours of trial and elimination, they created OrangeGlo, their first signature product. It was a squirt-and-wipe product made from orange oil, which dissolved grease, handprints, and grime from hard surfaces. After several improvements to the formula, including a better- smelling scent—derived by switching to Valencia orange oil—the product was ready for bigger markets. Max was also able to move out of his garage and into a small warehouse, where he mixed and manufactured the product.

Max began to sell at shows away from Colorado and recruited show people to become OG distributors. At one point Max was actively marketing and selling at over one hundred consumer shows. He needed help.

His children left successful jobs at Quaker Oats, Accenture, Young and Rubicam, and a cooking career to join their parents in building a company. Through their experience and skills, they helped to refine every aspect of the business.

They lined up a producer and created an infomercial to demonstrate OrangeGlo and OrangeClean. The infomercial was a resounding success and helped them make the move into grocery stores such as Food Lion, Kroger, and other retail settings.

Then came the first appointment with Wal-Mart and Sam’s. Max and his son were able to convince the buyer to give the relatively unknown products a trial in some of Wal-Mart’s stores, including those in Colorado where there was some previous exposure. At that time Appels’ sales had reached $20 million.

The test was a huge success at Sam’s, so Wal-Mart agreed to put the Appels’ products in eighteen hundred stores and eventually into the entire chain.

Wal-Mart placed Appels’ products in other countries, and the small family business was able to expand into and open corporate offices in England, Mexico, France, Germany, China, Japan, and Korea.

But what was the determining factor in the Appels’ remarkable success?

According to Max, it was based on a supplier relationship:

Our sales and success were due, in large part, to Wal-Mart’s handling and promoting our products but even more so to their encouragement and feedback. They not only sold our products, but gave us suggestions for new products and for improving our present products. We feel blessed to be part of the Wal-Mart supply team. We feel we are partners in making helpful and unique products available to people everywhere.

For reflection and action:

Are there relationships in your business that could offer substantial improvements in performance if you established greater levels of communication?

Do you find a lack of trust between your company and business partners to be a deterrent to your success?

Which people in your sphere of business interactions have the most impact

on your business? What potential do you see in this area?

Chapter 11

Never Stop Growing

I will go anywhere, as long as it’s forward.

—David Livingstone

Wal-Mart Way Principle #11

The ongoing success of your organization is in direct proportion to your ongoing commitment to grow.

What have you done for me lately? That particular phrase—common in sports and business contexts—has a strong negative connotation for most of us. It bespeaks an adversarial spirit and a lack of gratitude and appreciation for a career of significant contributions. But when we ask the question of ourselves—what have I been doing lately?—it suddenly becomes a powerful and helpful self-assessment tool to indicate the current health of an individual or company.

Growth and organizational health are inextricably linked. The Wal-Mart growth strategy has been the engine that drives the ever-expanding sales of Wal-Mart. We pushed sales relentlessly, believing that if you don’t add to the top line (sales revenue), you will not be able to consistently add to the bottom line (profits). And if you don’t add to the bottom line, you will not be able to reinvest in the business, which will damage every aspect of your business plan and limit your future growth.

If you’ve ever watched a football game on TV, you will have undoubtedly heard the phrase “they lost their momentum.” It means that everything a team is trying to do is a struggle, while everything the other team is doing seems to flow so easily. During the early days of Wal-Mart’s movement toward becoming the number-one retailer in the world, we caught and passed

competitors who were one thousand times our size, because they didn’t have an adequate growth strategy—they had lost their momentum and were heading in the wrong direction!

Sam believed in momentum. We continually plowed the lion’s share of our profits straight back into the business.

The Wal-Mart growth strategy had six basic components:

Increase same-store and same-club sales each year.

Add new stores and clubs.

Relocate, expand, and remodel stores and clubs.

Acquire U.S. competitors.

Acquire international chains.

Develop new retail concepts.

Same-Store Sales