SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The document highlights several leadership books that provide insights and techniques for effective leadership, team building, and personnel management.
KEYWORDS: leadership, team building, personnel management, employee development, management principles
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

We invite you to explore our Web site: www.soderquist.org

If you enjoyed The Wal-Mart Way by Don Soderquist, consider these other quality leadership titles from Nelson Business:

THE FOUR ELEMENTS OF SUCCESS

Small businesses, large corporations, churches, and organizations of all sizes need to have an easily understood method for hiring, placement, team building, and personnel integration so that all members in the organizational ladder can be at their effective best. New York Times best-selling author Laurie Beth Jones developed the Path Elements Profile (PEP), which can be used in recruitment, placement, retention, team building, and customer relations. Based upon the elements of Earth, Water, Wind, and Fire, The Four Elements of Success will help leaders determine both individual and team behavioral tendencies that affect everything. INCLUDES an assessment test for your team’s elemental strengths and weaknesses.

ISBN: 0-7852-0888-7

THE CENTURION PRINCIPLES

The Centurion Principles, by New York Times best-selling author Colonel Jeff O’Leary (ret.), illuminates the defining moments of great leaders, including Alexander the Great, Joan of Arc, and Abraham Lincoln. This approach of placing readers in the shoes of decision makers provides a realistic and gripping application of leadership principles and motivates readers into becoming the kind of leader that will leave a stirring legacy—a Centurion Leader.

ISBN 0-7852-6196-6

More titles from Nelson Business:

TRUST

From the perspective of someone who served a U.S. president, a U.S. senator, and a governor, author Les T. Csorba sees trust as the most indispensable force between leaders and followers. In Trust he offers observations gleaned from two decades of experience in government, business, church, and family. The book features interactive elements such as a guide to evaluating whether you are developing the trust necessary to motivate and richly lead followers.

ISBN 0-7852-6154-0

AESOP & THE CEO

David Noonan, in a clever melding of modern business sense and ancient wisdom, uses the ancient fables of Aesop as a backdrop for 50 significant lessons from the greatest business leaders of our day. Both entertaining and informative, Aesop & the CEO is comprised of short, easy-to-read vignettes that cover every aspect of corporate life: negotiations, hiring and firing, mergers and acquisitions, marketing and sales, and day-to-day management.

ISBN 0-7852-6010-2