SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Store Operations
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's structure keeps leadership in constant contact with stores and associates to improve operations and customer service.
KEYWORDS: store management, field visits, leadership presence, operational oversight, customer focus
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Constant In-Store Presence

First of all, we established a structure that kept leadership in constant contact with associates and customers. In Wal-Mart or any large retail chain, with stores and clubs scattered across large geographic areas, you obviously can’t be aware of everything that goes on everywhere at every moment, but that doesn’t mean you don’t try.

In Wal-Mart, from the beginning, every store manager reported to a district manager who supervised six to twelve stores, depending on the size of the stores and the geography. The district manager lived in close proximity to those stores and spent time in each one at least once every two weeks, helping the management team and associates to improve their store. Their chief responsibility was to see that the Wal-Mart programs—including people programs for our associates—were being executed effectively. No wonder programs such as the Open Door worked. Associates got to know the district manager by name and could count on seeing him or her on a regular basis.

Each district manager reported to a regional vice president who supervised approximately ten district managers and one hundred stores. The regional vice presidents lived in northwest Arkansas and flew out to their stores every Monday morning on a Wal-Mart plane and returned home every Thursday evening. They visited every one of their stores approximately every three months. In addition to visiting Wal-Mart stores, they also visited our competitors’ stores, This centralized structure provided experienced eyes examining the entire retail landscape every single day. We observed what we were doing well, what we were doing poorly, and what others were doing better than we were. Management made improvements store by store on all of these trips.

Senior Leaders in the Field

In addition to the constant contact of the district managers and regional vice presidents, Sam was personally in numerous Wal-Mart stores every week. He went into the office around 4:00 or 5:00 AM to do some paperwork and reply to letters he had received. He then headed for the airport and flew out to get a firsthand look at how the stores were performing and looked, how

the associates were doing, and how we were serving our customers. He also provided a lot of inspiration to the associates in the stores, and they loved him. He thanked them for the way their stores looked and for their efforts, and he reminded them of how important it was to satisfy the customers.

Sam also insisted that every senior officer travel to several Wal-Mart stores at least one day every week. We flew out early in the morning on one of the company planes to both large and small markets, visiting up to five or six stores in a day. At the end of a long and productive day, we either flew home that night or stayed the course for a second or third day of visits. We all headed in different directions so we could get senior leadership into as many stores as possible. We checked the merchandise, checked the condition of the store, visited with as many associates as we could, visited with the customers, shared our detailed observations with the store management team, usually stopped at a competitor’s store to see what we could learn from them, then went to the airport to fly to the next store.

While in each store,we asked the customers what they liked and what they didn’t like about our store. You know what? They were very honest with us. We also asked our associates how things were going in the store and how the in-store management team was treating them. Sometimes they were reluctant to say anything, but most of the time they called it like it was. We always attempted to be accessible to anyone who wanted to visit with us, however, it was impossible to help people with problems if they weren’t willing to come forward and share their concerns.

If you see a snake, just kill it. Don’t appoint a committee on snakes.

—H. Ross Perot

If the store was having problems, that was usually very apparent, and frequently we could provide assistance while we were there. If a store was really operating badly, we might stay there all day and not visit any other stores. As I look back on it now, those were special times for me. I loved visiting with the associates—they’re great people! When traveling today, even though I have retired from the company, I still stop by Wal-Marts just to speak with the associates.

There is no question in my mind that these visits were powerful in keeping

the small-company feeling alive no matter how large we became. By visiting our stores religiously, we were able to share and reinforce our values and culture and to communicate to our associates how valuable they were to our continued success and how critical it was to take extremely good care of our customers. We worked hard to make sure our executive team was accessible. We were ordinary people, and we genuinely cared about them as individuals.

A person who is successful has simply formed the habit of doing things that unsuccessful people will not do.

—Anonymous

The Wal-Mart aviation department really made the centralized structure work by getting the regional vice presidents, senior leaders, and other home office associates out to the field on a timely basis. Pilots usually dropped us off at small airports that were very near our stores, enabling us to spend a maximum amount of time making our rounds. We also needed a good way to get our buyers out to the field. They, too, traveled whenever possible to talk with department managers and customers about their lines of merchandise, to see how they were displayed and how well they were selling. We called this “Eat what you cook.”We wanted our buyers to experience the same thing as their customers in the store environment. The aviation department made all of this possible.