SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Supply Chain Optimization
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's innovative logistics strategies, including cross-docking and driver-focused initiatives, resulted in significant cost savings and operational efficiencies.
KEYWORDS: logistics, distribution, cross-docking, trucking, cost savings
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

Again, all this may sound like the most routine of improvements. But we

were the first retailer to develop a comprehensive back-haul operation. The

program resulted in millions and millions of dollar savings and countless

hours of savings in the movement of merchandise—all major strategic

advantages.

The next step to attain even greater efficiency was to begin having our

trucks pick up merchandise from a supplier for several Wal-Mart distribution

centers at the same time. In order to do that, we had to develop a method we

called “cross-docking.”We tested the concept by building a long, narrow,

extended arm on one of our new distribution centers and putting multiple

doors on either side of the extension. A driver backed his truck into one of

the doors on one side. As the merchandise was unloaded from that truck,

some of it was moved to another truck on the opposite side bound for another

distribution center. The merchandise was moved directly between trucks

without any additional handling. We saved costs on shipping, handling, and

many other subtle areas of our distribution system. Cross-docking became the

pattern for all new distribution centers.

All of these examples reemphasize the fact that there is no limit to what we

would do to improve everything in our operation.

The People Side of Trucking

Our truck drivers have always been very special associates. They are not

only dedicated and hardworking, but they are also goodwill ambassadors for

the company. They not only exert a positive influence on our own store

associates, but they also frequently stop to help stranded motorists on the

highways. I have received numerous letters from those motorists, sharing

their stories and commending particular drivers for their help and pleasant

manner.

One letter came from a woman who was traveling with four other women

down an expressway late in the evening. She had to pull over to the shoulder

of the road when a tire blew out. There they were on the side of the highway

in a disabled car, in the dark. She related how fearful they were. After sitting

there for a while, with many cars and trucks speeding past them, a truck

finally pulled over. As soon as they saw that it was a Wal-Mart truck, they

unlocked the doors and all ran and hugged the Wal-Mart driver who was then

walking toward them. Her final sentence in the letter was: “Because he was

with Wal-Mart we knew we could trust him.”Wow! What a fantastic image

of Wal-Mart—we can be trusted. We can trust our drivers to make logistics

more efficient and present the smiling face of Wal-Mart at the same time.

How Can We Keep Improving?

As evidenced by the Wal-Mart distribution system and trucking operation,

opportunities abound within every organization to improve operations,

improve service, and reduce costs. You just have to keep looking for them.

No area of a company need be stagnant—if you create an environment where

your people accept that there is always a better way to do things and if you

encourage and empower them to reach for higher levels of excellence. It’s

interesting to realize that many of the opportunities to improve are right in

front of our eyes. All we have to do is be sensitive to see them and then have

the courage to do something about them. Our people have had to deal with

change as a way of life at Wal-Mart, but they realize that we would never

have accomplished what we have without constant improvement.

Success is the sum of small efforts, repeated day in and day out.

—Robert J. Collier

The Commitment of Leadership

One area that few people truly understand about logistics is the mind-

boggling array of responsibilities the senior leaders in logistics have to stay

on top of due to Wal-Mart’s tremendous growth. It was a balancing act to

keep expenses under control while building up to twelve new one-million-

square- foot distribution centers in different parts of the country and

retrofitting a number of others in a single year, without letting service to the

existing stores and clubs slip. And at the same time, the logistics leaders had

to continue to drive innovation. No small combination of tasks!

Vision without a task is only a dream. A task without a vision is but drudgery. But vision with a task is a

dream fulfilled.

—Willie Stone

When I joined Wal-Mart, it was a major struggle to get 40,000 cases a day

out of a single warehouse. Today, each distribution center is consistently

receiving and shipping up to 750,000 cases of merchandise a day during peak

periods. Today,Wal-Mart has over 100 distribution centers with a total of 90

million square feet of space, serving discount stores, Supercenters, Sam’s

Clubs, and Neighborhood Markets domestically, with flexible deliveries to

each store and club based on their individual needs.

Innovation has achieved millions and millions of dollars of cost savings

each year, productivity continues to be improved, and processing time

continues to be reduced by what has become an extensive computer-

controlled network involving many of our suppliers—a system that has

further reduced the cost of getting merchandise to our customers. I could go

on and on about the many ways logistics has played an important role in Wal-

Mart’s achieving remarkable levels of success, and I used only a few of many

examples to illustrate the importance of logistics. Just as technology has

impacted the way many companies think and operate, so logistics has

impacted the way business is conducted in the supply chain.

Our senior logistics executives have always been change-agents and have

continued to adjust the way Wal-Mart handles the distribution of

merchandise. They have changed systems over and over again, and the

Information Systems Division became a real partner with the logistics crew.

Together they have set the standard in the industry for efficient, effective

distribution and continue to operate at the lowest cost of any retailer handling