SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Business Leadership
SUMMARY: The text describes a personal experience that exemplifies Wal-Mart's culture of attention to detail and follow-through from the top down.
KEYWORDS: attention to detail, business culture, leadership by example, Wal-Mart, customer focus
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

made to a business group in Little Rock. Your topic concerning Mr.Sam’s “Eagle Eye” for

detail brought back an experience I feel compelled to share. The memory that came to mind

occurred a few years ago while I was working as a Wal-Mart Buyer in the Automotive

Electronics category. I happened to be in the modular layout room one day when your

assistant somehow tracked me down by phone and asked, “Do you have a few minutes to

come see Don this afternoon?” The thought that a person at your level of responsibility in a

company as large as ours was calling me directly was frankly both thrilling and scary! As I

jumped into my car and sped to the home office my mind raced with anticipation; was it my

sales? My inventory? A supplier or store issue? What was so important that “Mr.

Soderquist”would take the time to ask to see me personally? As I sat down in front of your

desk after a cordial greeting, you might remember that you held up the package for one of my

items and the conversation went something like this: “Harry, I bought this radar detector

cord the other day. The directions on the package say ‘refer to Figure B’—well, can you

show me where ‘Figure B’ is?”

I was stunned, not by the fact I made a mistake by not proofing my supplier’s packaging

better, but because you cared enough to take the time to personally point this out. You were

deeply concerned that it would be very confusing to a customer. This incredible attention to

detail and the will to follow through and take action not only impacted me, but has been a

real-life “teaching parable” that I’ve repeated many times since. Young buyers and new

suppliers understand our unique culture better when they hear this story as an example of

how everyone from the top down strives to understand the details of our business. Though I

never had the privilege of seeing Mr. Sam’s passion for questioning the details in person, I

want to thank you for serving as a personal example that I can share with others as we

expand the Wal-Mart culture.

My success just evolved from working hard at the business at hand each day.

—Johnny Carson

For reflection and action:

1. Is your organization known for its follow-through and execution?

2. Do you inspect what you expect?

3. How aware are you of the various details that make your business work?

4. In your personal life, what are some ways you can improve on your

follow-through and execution?

Chapter 8

Technology—the Ultimate Change Agent

Give me six hours to chop down a tree and I will spend the first four sharpening the axe.

—Abraham Lincoln

Wal-Mart Way Principle #8

To build a great company, you must actively and continually seek out, evaluate, and invest in the tools

that best serve the people and aims of your organization.

I

t is the responsibility of every leader to maximize the contribution of every

asset in the business. Generally, only a few of those assets have the potential

to be significant drivers in the business and facilitate change throughout the

enterprise. Technology and logistics (which I will discuss in the next chapter)

are two such resources that have had a dramatic impact on the performance of

Wal-Mart. They also represent the principle of teamwork between functional

units in a business and the synergy that can result. While numerous articles

have been written about Wal-Mart’s technology, few people recognize the

significant role it has played in supporting the company’s total operation.

It would be wrong to begin this chapter without first talking about our

associates in relation to technology. You may have noticed that Wal-Mart

associates and Wal-Mart culture are the continuing themes woven throughout

this book. From the beginning of our testing and use of computers, Sam

insisted that all of our systems be people-supportive, not the other way

around. Our goal has been to literally put the power of the computer into the

hands of our associates in order to make their work more productive and to

help them make well-informed decisions.

Technology is only a tool and is not as important as people, but it is a

powerful resource that is available to every business, regardless of size, and

can have a major impact on a company’s sales, profitability, and overall

success. It can help to control expenses, provide valuable information on

every aspect of a business, aid in the decision-making process, reduce the

time needed to accomplish tasks, improve customer service, and maximize

the use of other assets. There are four requirements that are essential to

ensure that a company receives the maximum benefit that technology can

provide:

He that will not apply new remedies must expect new evils.

—Francis Bacon

1. Senior leadership involvement and support.

2. Selection of the right person to lead the technology department.

3. Investment in the right projects.

4. A method of determining actual payback.

Making Technology Pay

Wal-Mart has always placed a great deal of emphasis on the effective use

of technology and considered it an investment rather than an expense. As a

result, we always expected a payback on that investment just as with any

other investment we made. I confess that there were times when some

questioned the size of our technology investment, but, in retrospect, this

investment has proven to be one of the more significant factors in our

success.

We don’t want to be famous for our technology.

We want to be famous for what our technology allows us to do.

—Linda Dillman, EVP & CIO, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

Technology has been an enabler and facilitator of change throughout Wal-

Mart. It has made it possible for us to dramatically change not only the way

we do business, but also the way business is conducted in the entire industry.

As a result of the support of senior leadership,Wal-Mart has consistently been