SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Marketing Strategy
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's unique marketing strategy focused on everyday low pricing, friendly atmosphere, and featuring associates and customers in advertising.
KEYWORDS: Everyday low pricing, Friendly atmosphere, Associate-featured advertising, Customer-featured advertising, Cost-effective marketing
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

The Wal-Mart marketing strategy has been unique among retailers. The

product, as I have explained, is a store designed to satisfy customers by

offering the everyday household needs of families in a friendly and fun

atmosphere; it is a wide assortment of merchandise, with an emphasis on

brand-name products; it is friendliness of the associates; and it is everyday

low pricing. (Always.)

In the early years,Wal-Mart advertised, as did most of the retail industry,

primarily in local newspapers and in monthly circulars. Many of the items

selected were shown at reduced prices. Over time, it became apparent that

reducing prices on several hundred selected items wasn’t completely

consistent with—or nearly as effective as—everyday low prices, so we

decided to change that element of our advertising. Television became the

primary medium for sharing who we were, and we changed the monthly

circular to feature items at their everyday low prices, thereby reinforcing our

pricing strategy. We designed the television spots to show Wal-Mart as a

friendly place to shop, where you could find the merchandise you needed

every day for your home and family; as a place where you could depend on

prices being low every day and even being consistently rolled back; as a

place where you could bump into your neighbors and leave satisfied with the

quality and price of your purchases.

Another strategic element in Wal-Mart promotion and advertising plans

was that we kept costs down and passed the savings on to the customers. We

consistently spent at least 2 percent less than our major competitors in our

marketing budget. In the retailing business, this is a tremendous cost

advantage to have over your competition and was another way that we could

maintain lower prices every day. We didn’t need to draw customers into our

stores with circulars showing items at special prices; our image of everyday

low prices already did that. In addition to the reduced cost of advertising

itself, we had further savings at the store level by not having to price and

reprice the merchandise with every circular. We were always looking for

ways to reduce our costs and pass the savings on to the customer.

In the midnineties, another ingenious idea came from our marketing

department and advertising agencies. Why don’t we use our own associates

instead of professional models in our TV ads and monthly circulars? We tried

it. Our associates did a great job, and it was a huge success. The associates

who appeared in TV spots and circulars became celebrities in their

communities, and Wal-Mart associates from all over the country wanted to be

in the commercials.

Our customers noticed the change and loved it. Our marketing department

responded once again and came up with the idea of using our customers as

models in our ads as well. This was another huge success that made

customers associate Wal-Mart as a “people company. ”

We were also able to tell our customers about our commitment to the

environment, about our many Good Works projects, and about our

involvement in community activities. We let them know that Wal-Mart is a

company for families, and your neighbors are the ones who will be serving

you when you come into your local Wal-Mart store. Maybe most importantly,

how we present Wal-Mart in our advertising is what customers actually find

when they come into our stores. Our marketing has always painted an

accurate picture of who we really are and what you can expect when you

shop with us.

When Disaster Strikes Your Customers

On May 30, 1982, a tornado devastated Marion, Illinois. It destroyed

scores of homes and many businesses. The Wal-Mart store was hit hard as

well—the tornado ripped off the back one-third of the building. The people in

town were in great need of supplies, not only to live on, but also to clean up

the remnants of the devastation. Sam and Jack Shewmaker, the president and

COO for Wal-Mart at that time, got in Sam’s plane and flew up to assess the

situation. When they saw that the town was nearly destroyed and the people

had been thrown into dire straits, they first decided to build a temporary wall

right where the tornado had cut off the back of our building. They next

brought in teams of associates from other Wal-Marts to clean up the store,

ordered new merchandise, and reopened within days. They continued to

operate the store while the reconstruction of the rear of the building was in

process.

The Wal-Mart Way of Enhancing Quality of Life

• A UBS Warburg study found that Wal-Mart grocery prices are 17 to 20

percent lower than other supermarkets, which has the greatest benefit for

low-income families.

• According to the New England Consulting Group, Wal-Mart saved

consumers $20 billion last year—enough to put a $100 bill in the hands of

every adult in America.

• A new Wal-Mart store, Sam’s Club, or distribution center in a community

means new jobs and lower retail prices in all area stores.

• Wal-Mart generates more than $8 billion in sales tax revenues and millions

more in property taxes every year that help to fund such basic services as

police, fire, and schools.

One of the greatest problems for communities that experience devastating

natural disasters is a shortage of routine and specialized merchandise, which

in turn drives up prices. This never happened in Marion. The community’s

lifeline of everyday supplies flowed without interruption. Many people in the

town believed that this was a more significant contribution toward their

recovery than any money and goods that Wal-Mart donated.

One year later, the construction was complete, and we had an exciting

grand reopening. During that year, with one-third of the store gone, we never

had a week when the sales in that store were less than the year before. The

customers were amazed at Wal-Mart’s efforts, especially Sam’s special

interest in the project, and they became loyal believers in Wal-Mart. When