SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of reading books and learning from others to develop leadership skills and drive continuous improvement.
KEYWORDS: leadership development, continuous improvement, personal responsibility
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Another opportunity for development comes through reading books, which is an excellent way to learn more about leadership. I always encouraged our management team to develop their own library of good business and personal development books—and to actually read as many as they possibly could.

One a week? One a month? I challenged them to set their own goals and stick to them. I also encouraged them to return to their college days and underline or highlight the points that made the biggest impression on them and to refer back to those highlighted areas often. We routinely passed out copies of excellent books to our five to six thousand leaders who attended the Wal- Mart semi-annual corporate meetings.

In my opinion, the associates that were most successful over time were those who were determined to learn all they could. I always encouraged our associates to accept the personal responsibility to become sponges and absorb all they could from watching others who were successful. Watch them, study what they do and how they do it, and ask questions such as “Why?” Learn both good skills to practice and bad practices to avoid by watching others.

One Person Can Make a Difference

Is there a better way to make people feel they are important than listening to their ideas and then implementing them? Management constantly encourages associates to share their ideas about how to improve the company, reduce unnecessary costs, and satisfy the customers more effectively. We have implemented thousands of these ideas over the years. Some have been small and have impacted only a particular store, while others have impacted systems company-wide, but all the ideas have made Wal-Mart a better place to work and shop. Wal-Mart people were working on continuous improvement before it was a management catchphrase coined by the proponents of the Total Quality. It works, because it is just good common sense.

The Impact of Leadership Attitude

I was working as the computer manager of a relatively small company.

One day our IBM salesman came in and told me that a company called Ben Franklin was looking for someone to run its technology department. I decided to check it out and went through the normal interview process. Several days later, I received a call and was asked to come back in because the executive vice president of the company wanted to talk to me. I was somewhat surprised because back then computers weren’t a big deal, so I didn’t understand why I was talking to the executive vice president of the company when I wouldn’t even be working for him.

I went through the interview and didn’t feel that I did very well. The drapes in his office—already dark with its mahogany paneling—were closed, and the lights were on a dim setting. Behind the mahogany desk sat this crusty old guy. He didn’t get up when I walked into the room but just sat there until I walked up to the desk.

He said, “You may be seated,” so I sat down. In the next thirty minutes, he proceeded to interrogate me as I had never been interrogated before. And in that short period of time, he found out everything about me. When I went home that night, I told my wife, “Whoa, did I blow it today. I mean, there’s no way they’ll hire me—I’ll be surprised if I even hear from them again.” To

my surprise, a few days later I was offered the job.

Over the next year and a half as I worked for Ben Franklin, I saw the executive vice president a few times as we passed in the hallway. He always remembered my name and said,“Hi, Don,” but that was it. Unfortunately, I was unhappy with my job and my supervisor and frustrated. I would go to one of the operating departments and attempt to develop a computer system based on what that specific department told me it needed to improve or reduce costs. Then my direct manager would come around and tell the department, “That’s not what you need. Let me show you what you need.” After going through that a few times, I was at the point where I was irritated with nearly anything—and everything—the man I worked for did.

Then one day, a good friend of mine, who went to the same church I went to, called me and said, “Don, I understand you’re in computers. We need a computer person to come down to our savings and loan and run the technology department. Would you be interested in an interview?”

“Well, Bud, you caught me at a good time,” I answered. “I sure would.”

I went downtown to the largest savings and loan in Chicago and interviewed with him and the personnel department. Bud was executive vice president, and I would be working for him. He offered me more money than I was making at Ben Franklin. Plus, I would become assistant vice president— now that was a big deal. And the benefits didn’t stop there; I’d be working for a friend. And instead of driving one hour to work each way every day, I could ride a train downtown and read the paper and do some work. On a Monday, I accepted the job and said, “I’ll give my two weeks’ notice on Friday.”

If you want your employees to put forth the discretionary effort that ensures customer loyalty, you need to focus as much on your employees as you do on your customers.

—Dennis McCarthy

Well, on Tuesday, I was walking down the hallway and this crusty old executive vice president stopped me and said,“Don, I’d like to visit with you for a few minutes in my office.” In the year and a half since my first interview with him, I’d never been in that office again. And since I had

already decided to leave the company, it didn’t really matter to me if I ever visited it again.