SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Assistance Programs
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart provided counseling services to help employees with personal and work-related issues, and maintained an open-door policy to address concerns.
KEYWORDS: employee assistance, open-door policy, counseling services, employee welfare, conflict resolution
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

statistical total of the types of problems the counselors dealt with: family,

marriage, children, drugs, alcohol, and yes, even work. Marriages were

saved, addictions were broken, families were restored, and people were even

saved from suicide.

This team of counselors was also called out to stores, clubs, and

distribution centers to counsel personally with associates impacted by major

traumas, such as deaths in their operating units. The counselors held group

meetings to assist associates in dealing with grief and sorrow and were also

available to visit with any individuals who requested personal counseling.

The Door Is Always Open

Part of giving our workers dignity was giving them a voice to discuss

anything that needed management attention. We strongly supported what we

officially dubbed the Open Door Policy. The policy established a means for

all of our associates to voice their suggestions on how we could improve our

program, to express their opinions if they disagreed with something that was

being done, or to address the way someone was treating them.

If associates feel they are being treated unfairly, they go directly to their

immediate supervisors and try to work it out there first. If the immediate

supervisors can’t solve the problem—or are perceived to be the problem—

and the associates are unable to get satisfaction, then they can go directly to

the manager at the next level—all the way up to the CEO if necessary. The

only condition on the Open Door is that it doesn’t open until the associate has

first spoken to his or her immediate supervisor.

This is a remarkable program that gives confidence to our associates. It has

been a key to making our company better because of the honest feedback it

gives to all levels of Wal-Mart staff.

From day one, Sam let his management team know that he wanted them to

be open and nondefensive. He didn’t want his executives, managers, and

supervisors living under the fear that this would undercut their authority and

the respect associates had for them. Sam, who was humble and down-to-

earth, was able to convince us that to the contrary, this program would make

better managers out of us—and actually increase respect for management.

Over the years, we have resolved many problems that we never would have

even been aware of if one of our associates hadn’t used the Open Door. I

personally spent many hours responding to phone calls and letters from

associates with whom I would never have had contact if not for this corporate

commitment and discipline.

Just because an associate used the Open Door didn’t mean that he or she

was always right. But we have always tried hard to listen very carefully to all

sides of an issue. Frequently, the conflict was a matter of miscommunication

or misunderstanding that could be resolved by listening and guiding. I found

many times that the associates just wanted someone to listen and to know that

we cared about them. Unfortunately, even in Wal-Mart not everyone chose to

use the Open Door, but it was always available to anyone in the company,

and management reminded associates of that frequently. The important thing

was that the policy gave everyone the opportunity to be heard and treated

fairly.

My first experience with the Open Door came shortly after I joined the

company. One of my first responsibilities with Wal-Mart was the distribution

operations, which included supervision of the truck drivers. We had one truck

driver who was not performing satisfactorily. He was really a decent driver,

but not dependable in his personal habits. He would take a load out but

mysteriously not show up at his destination, or he would arrive to work late

for his outbound trip. The trucking management team followed all the correct

procedures in counseling him to improve his performance. It finally got to a

place where I was told, “Don, we have to terminate this man. He is not doing

his job, and we have done everything we can.” I looked at all the

documentation and everything looked proper to me, so we fired him.

The next day, Sam came into my office and said, “Don, I understand you

fired So-and-So.”

I said, “Yes, Sam, he’s not been performing. He’s very undependable—we

can’t count on him. The trucking management did a good job of coaching and

counseling him, and he still doesn’t respond. So I agreed with the

termination. By the way, how’d you hear about it?”

“Oh, he came into my office early this morning and expressed his

concern,” Sam answered and then said,“Don, after talking with him for a

while, I want you to hire him back.”

“What do you mean, Sam? He hasn’t been performing for a long time.” I

had a lump in my throat.

“Don, I listened to the guy, and I want you to hire him back.”

“Sam, I hate to go against what our people have already done. They

documented all their efforts, and I think they’ve gone above and beyond.

They worked hard on it.”

“Don, hire him back.”

“Sam, why would we do that? He’s not a good performer.”

Sam was kind to extend the Open Door to me during this conversation, and

though I didn’t agree with him at the time, he explained his reasoning. “Don,

I’ll tell you. First of all, sometimes you have to overrule your people. If you

don’t overrule sometimes, the Open Door does not work, and the Open Door

is going to work in this company, so hire him back. The second thing, Don: if

he is as bad as you say he is—and after talking to him, I’m not convinced he

is—then he is going to have an ongoing problem. If he does, then you can

terminate him again, and then he’ll stay gone.”

I had to do something I didn’t want to do. I had to go to Lee Scott, the head

of the trucking department at that time (and later the CEO of Wal-Mart) to