SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Logistics and Supply Chain Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses how Wal-Mart has transformed its logistics and supply chain, driving cost savings, productivity improvements, and enhanced customer experience.
KEYWORDS: logistics, supply chain, distribution, innovation, efficiency
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Vision without a task is only a dream. A task without a vision is but drudgery. But vision with a task is a dream fulfilled.

—Willie Stone

When I joined Wal-Mart, it was a major struggle to get 40,000 cases a day out of a single warehouse. Today, each distribution center is consistently receiving and shipping up to 750,000 cases of merchandise a day during peak periods. Today,Wal-Mart has over 100 distribution centers with a total of 90 million square feet of space, serving discount stores, Supercenters, Sam’s

Clubs, and Neighborhood Markets domestically, with flexible deliveries to each store and club based on their individual needs.

Innovation has achieved millions and millions of dollars of cost savings each year, productivity continues to be improved, and processing time continues to be reduced by what has become an extensive computer- controlled network involving many of our suppliers—a system that has further reduced the cost of getting merchandise to our customers. I could go on and on about the many ways logistics has played an important role in Wal- Mart’s achieving remarkable levels of success, and I used only a few of many examples to illustrate the importance of logistics. Just as technology has impacted the way many companies think and operate, so logistics has impacted the way business is conducted in the supply chain.

Our senior logistics executives have always been change-agents and have continued to adjust the way Wal-Mart handles the distribution of merchandise. They have changed systems over and over again, and the Information Systems Division became a real partner with the logistics crew. Together they have set the standard in the industry for efficient, effective distribution and continue to operate at the lowest cost of any retailer handling similar products. Logistics is clearly one of Wal-Mart’s core competencies that have set us apart from our competitors.

What it takes is leadership that fosters a desire and willingness of their people to continually look for better ways to do their job, and a strong desire to be the best that they can be and work together in pursuit of that goal.

Rollin Ford, executive vice president of logistics for Wal-Mart Stores, recently shared Wal-Mart’s ongoing passion in this area:

Reinventing the supply chain has been about much more than distribution centers, trucks and trailers, and material handling equipment. The innovations that enhanced our systems and efficiency have been remarkable, but the true impact is that it has allowed Wal-Mart to stay true to its vision of creating a great shopping experience for the average family by reducing retail prices and increasing quality merchandise options for our customers.

For reflection and action:

How much attention do you pay to the most basic, ground-level aspects of

your business and life? Why is it so tempting to devote time and resources to the “big” things, while ignoring the many “little” things that really add up?

What aspects of your business need more attention in order to improve?

Do you continually look for ways to improve personally? Is there any area of your life that has been off-limits to positive change? What is holding you back?

Take a walk through the areas of your organization where work takes place. Have a notebook and pen in hand. Can you come up with a page of areas you can improve?

Chapter 10

Creating Supplier Relationships

Coming together is the beginning. Keeping together is progress.

Working together is success.

—Henry Ford

Wal-Mart Way Principle #10:

When you create win-win relationships with your business partnerships based on trust and open communications, you maximize your potential for growth.

You can’t have everyday low prices without everyday low costs. At Wal- Mart we constantly work with our suppliers to find ways to cut the costs out of our merchandise so we can pass those savings on to our customers.

Effective use of technology and information systems allow us to communicate faster and more accurately with each other, and therefore, become more efficient. As pointed out in the previous chapter, the whole supply chain offers many opportunities to eliminate hidden and unnecessary costs in the handling of merchandise. But none of this is possible without cooperation and collaboration with our suppliers.

I need to tell you, it hasn’t always been this way. The story of how we forged this new form of supplier-retailer partnership is every bit as vital as other keys to Wal-Mart’s success.

While we were reinventing our distribution centers and other aspects of the supply chain, it was obvious that there was still a major disconnect in the system. To put it simply, we were doing our thing and suppliers were doing theirs. The relationships were basically cordial, but certainly not collaborative

—we were not working together for the benefit of our customers. That had to

change.

The Traditional Seller-Buyer Relationship—And a Canoe Trip

Seemingly since the beginning of time, the relationship between buyers and sellers has tended to be somewhat adversarial. The salesperson presents his or her items to a prospective buyer. They discuss a price and negotiate— the salesperson attempts to get the highest price and the buyer attempts to get the lowest price. Either they mutually agree on a price, or no sale would take place. Wal-Mart conducted business this same way in its early years. That was the common practice everyone accepted and understood.

In the late eighties, two events took place that drastically changed the entire buyer-seller dynamic between Wal-Mart and our suppliers. First, Sam Walton and a personal friend of his, a senior executive at Procter & Gamble (P&G), took their families on a canoe trip down a stream in Arkansas. In the course of conversation, they discussed the relationship between the two companies. We were one of P&G’s largest customers at the time, and it was our largest supplier.