SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Corporate Values and Culture
SUMMARY: The text discusses Walmart's core values, including integrity, respect, teamwork, communication, excellence, accountability, and trust, which formed the foundation of the company's culture and success.
KEYWORDS: corporate values, business culture, Walmart, integrity, teamwork
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Integrity

Respect

Teamwork

Communication

Excellence

Accountability

Trust

We would never tolerate a breach in our integrity. From the beginning, it was wrong to lie, cheat, or steal. We did not ignore even small instances of failing to tell the truth. Leadership clearly spelled out disciplinary processes on integrity issues, including the possibility of termination.

Respect meant that all employees were to be respected no matter their positions, titles, genders, races, or religious beliefs. Your point of view was important even if you disagreed with your supervisor.

Teamwork meant that no one could do it alone. You had to depend on others, and others had to be able to depend on you.

Communication was essential at all levels in the company. This meant communication in both directions—dialogue. It meant listening as well as talking.

Excellence meant that we were always striving to improve—we had a willingness to change if it would make us better.

Accountability meant that each person was responsible for his or her personal actions. Each was expected to perform at an acceptable level.

Trust is the basis of all relationships. All associates were expected to act in a manner that would engender the trust of those they worked with: customers, suppliers, fellow associates, and members of the community.

Our values became our culture. Over time we changed everything about our company—the look of our stores and clubs, the way we transported merchandise, our merchandise assortment, our business systems, and many of our strategies—but never our values. They were the foundation of everything we did.

It is so sad today to see companies struggle and even fail because they lose sight of the vision and values that were the very reasons they were successful in the first place. When Sam passed away, we were determined not to let our values deteriorate as individuals and as a company.

What You Do Is a Reflection of What You Believe

When I first joined Wal-Mart, wherever I spoke, people wanted to know how Wal-Mart had been able to be so successful in the past, even though we were still quite a small company in comparison to the giant retailers of that day. I had observed the company both from the outside and then from the inside and developed an important list of the things we did right. My outline included our real estate strategy, our everyday low pricing of merchandise, our merchandise assortment, our people programs—and numerous other business strategies.

A principle is a principle. And in no case can it be watered down because of our incapacity to live it in practice.We have to strive to achieve it, and the striving should be conscious, deliberate and hard.

—Mahatma Gandhi

After a while, I began to realize that these strategies weren’t the bottom- line driving force behind our success. First of all, I had to recognize that we certainly weren’t the only company with good business practices. And over time, I had to acknowledge that strategies, to be effective, had to be fine- tuned constantly. But there was something much more fundamental that didn’t change: the foundational beliefs of the company. It became very apparent to me that everything we did grew out of what we believed, and what we believed was a direct result of our values.

Values and beliefs go hand in hand and together determine how you think and act—and whether you will succeed and reach your full potential as a company. I have experienced firsthand that this is the case with Wal-Mart!

If you were to stop any associate in Wal-Mart and ask him or her what our three basic beliefs are, I am sure you would hear the following in their own words:

We treat everyone with respect and dignity,

We are in business to satisfy our customers, and

We strive for excellence in all that we do.

Now, when I speak or am interviewed about the secrets of Wal-Mart’s success, I begin with our beliefs. I am amazed at how many times those who aren’t part of the Wal-Mart family challenge this, even minimizing the importance of our beliefs. I have had many people suggest that all this talk about beliefs sounds more like a simple bromide: Mom, apple pie, and baseball. Our beliefs are simple—no question about that—but Wal-Mart people understand what they mean and work hard at making them a reality every day.

A Culture of Respect

Treating everyone with respect and dignity means everyone. We start with our associates. We don’t call them “employees”; they are associates in the true sense of the word, and there is no question in my mind that our people have made the difference in our success. We work hard to provide an environment where everyone can contribute and be successful. We treat people as more than pairs of hands to do jobs: we treat them as sources of new ideas. As Sam often said, most of the new things we do in the company come from our people.

A Culture of Customer Satisfaction

As I will address more fully in the next chapter, we treat our customers as the truly important people they are. We know that they’re the real “boss.” We believe that our goal is to satisfy our customers every time they are in our stores or clubs. We work hard to make every customer feel welcome, to make him or her feel like family. Our focus on the customer drives so much of what we do. As an example, our everyday low-price strategy did not grow out of a new, hot marketing trend. It developed out of our core belief that we exist to satisfy the customer. We continue to do everything in our power to add value to what the customer gets when he or she comes into a Wal-Mart store or a Sam’s Club.

A Culture of Continuous Improvement

Striving for excellence means never being satisfied—always doing things to keep improving, even if it means changing everything we do. It means we