SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Benefits and Compensation
SUMMARY: The text discusses various employee benefits offered by Wal-Mart, including healthcare, profit sharing, and stock ownership.
KEYWORDS: employee benefits, healthcare, profit sharing, stock ownership
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

the Mayo Clinic, Stanford University Hospital, Johns Hopkins University

Hospital and many other health care facilities, all without insurance

approval.

• Other benefits include a profit sharing/401(k) plan, merchandise discounts,

company-paid life insurance, vacation pay and pay differential for those in

active military service.

• More than half of Wal-Mart’s associates own company stock through our

associate purchase plan.

• Wal-Mart projects that the company will spend $4.1 billion on benefits for

our associates in fiscal year 2005.

• Currently, 86 percent of Wal-Mart associates surveyed have medical

insurance; 56 percent of those with coverage received healthcare insurance

through Wal-Mart and the remainder received healthcare insurance through

another source such as another employer, a family member, the military, or

Medicare.

For reflection and action:

1. How would you rate yourself in the following areas?

• I am interested in the well-being of others.

• I believe that others offer perspectives and talents I don’t have.

• I am a good listener.

• I am open to new ideas—even if they are not my own.

• I am careful to take note of how happy and satisfied others are.

• I am an encourager.

2. Write down three or four ways you would like to grow—and help your

organization grow—in people skills and attitudes.

Chapter 5

The Customer Is the Boss

It is not the employer who pays the wages. Employers only handle the money. It is the

customer who pays the wages.

—Henry Ford

Wal-Mart Way Principle #5

You will succeed when you make a commitment to help your customers succeed first.

I

t doesn’t matter what business you are in, it is essential that the primary

motivation and driving force behind everything you do is based on the impact

it will have on your customer. Whenever we discussed a major change in any

operating strategy at Wal-Mart, one of the first questions raised was: “How

will this affect the customer?” It didn’t matter if it was in an executive

committee meeting, a staff meeting, or a store meeting. Discussions always

began and ended with the customer.

The customer is the only reason any of us are in business. And though

none of us will ever attain perfection in providing the greatest value and

service to the customer, from the beginning at Wal-Mart it was always the

preeminent part of our decision-making process. It was the focus of

everything we did.

To succeed, it is essential that everyone in an organization be passionate

about the customer.

Customer Service—More Than Lip Service

Unfortunately, in too many companies, the leaders say all the right things,

but they don’t practice what they preach. They offer lip service regarding

customer service, but in reality, the customer is the last one they consider;

instead it’s sales revenues, profits, the stock price, marketing, shareholder

value, and other business considerations. Don’t get me wrong: all aspects of

your business plan are incredibly important for your long-term success. And

all leaders must navigate the delicate balance between their customers and

shareholders. But I argue that you won’t reach your potential as a company or

organization until you put your customers first.

There are always many voices that speak up for profitability, but

companies need just as many advocates for the customer, those who will

always speak up about our responsibilities to the customer. There are

generally fewer of those voices—and they often get drowned out in the

clamoring for valid, yet derivative business matters. How can issues like

profitability be derivative? Simple. They don’t happen without a loyal

customer base!

Sam created a culture and environment in Wal-Mart where leadership

encouraged every person at every level to serve as the voice of the customer.

You can’t go through a day working at Wal-Mart without someone or

something constantly reminding you of whom you really work for. Sam

always said that we all had the same boss: the customer. As a matter of fact,

that’s the only time we used the term “boss.” (To this day, I don’t like the

word boss applied to a supervisor, manager, or leader. It is a word from the

past, a residue of an autocratic style of leadership that does not reflect more

enlightened understandings of leadership today.) The term boss wasn’t

thrown around carelessly in Wal-Mart, and referring to our customers as our

“boss”meant that we took our relationship with them very, very seriously.

Wal-Mart Merchandising Strategy—The Family Store

Customers come to our stores and wholesale clubs for the merchandise we

offer for sale. Since the customers are the boss, our merchandising strategy

focuses on what they need, what they want to buy. Wal-Mart buyers make

thousands of decisions every single day on what to buy for those customers.

From the very beginning, we needed to establish ground rules for our buyers

to follow as they made those decisions.

What kind of a store are we? We are a family store. We want to supply the

everyday needs of every member of the family. Furthermore, we want to

offer merchandise that every family in the country needs, regardless of its

socioeconomic level. In other words, every single family is a candidate to be

a Wal-Mart shopper for something; therefore, we carry most of the items

needed to run a household, with heavy emphasis on consumable items. After

all, we have one hundred million family members shop in our stores each

week.

We recognized that we couldn’t be everything to everybody, so we made

choices to focus primarily on basics. That meant that we would stay away

from the higher-priced lines, such as dress clothes and other high-end

merchandise lines. In the apparel area, for example, we chose to sell basic

sportswear and casual office wear. At the same time, it was extremely

important for us to always offer quality to our customers, and therefore we

emphasized buying name-brand merchandise wherever possible, and we

never sold seconds.

Another dimension to our merchandising strategy is that we always offered