SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Customer Experience Strategy
SUMMARY: The text describes Wal-Mart's successful implementation of a customer greeter program, which improved customer experience and reduced shrinkage.
KEYWORDS: customer experience, customer service, retail strategy, employee initiative, store operations
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

response from the customers was overwhelmingly positive. The district

manager, who was a little skeptical when he first walked into the store, was

so impressed that he decided to put people-greeters in all ten of the stores in

his district.

Several weeks later, the regional vice president stopped in one of the stores

and received the same treatment. He raised the same question—is having a

greeter worth the labor cost?—and was amazed by the resounding answer

from customers as well. Ultimately, the regional vice president put a people

greeter in each of the one hundred stores in his region.

When Sam heard about it, he decided to go to Crowley to see it for

himself. He loved the idea, and we placed full-time greeters throughout the

entire chain. Not only did this significantly add to the friendliness of our

stores, but it also helped to reduce shrinkage rates in our stores.

One lady’s commitment to the Wal-Mart culture—and the listening ear

management provided to her—led to the implementation of a successful new

policy. This is a fantastic example of the impact one person can have on a

company that cares about people and listens to their ideas. In fact, this idea

has had an impact on an entire industry; many companies have now copied

Lois’s greeter program.

Little-Known Facts About Wal-Mart

Recognitions

• In 2003 and 2004,Wal-Mart was listed as #1 on Fortune magazine’s “Most

Admired Company in America” listing.

• In 2003 Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., received the prestigious “Corporate

Patriotism Award” sponsored by the Employer Support of the Guard &

Reserve (ESGR).

• On September 24, 2004, the National Committee for Employer Support of

the Guard and Reserve (ESGR), in conjunction with the Secretary of

Defense, honored Wal-Mart as a 2004 Secretary of Defense Employer

Support Freedom Award recipient.

• In 2004,Wal-Mart was listed as one of the top 50 corporations (#5 on the

list) by DiversityBusiness.com for providing multicultural business

opportunities to diverse suppliers based on a poll of more than 200,000

diversity business owners across the U.S.

• In 2004, Black Collegian magazine listed Wal-Mart as one of the top

diversity employers.

• Hispanic magazine ranked Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. among the top 100

companies providing most opportunities for Hispanics in 2004.

• Vista magazine announced in 2004 that Wal-Mart was named among its

Top Family Friendly Companies for Hispanics.

• Latin Trade Reader named Wal-Mart among Latin America’s 25 Most-

Respected Employers in 2004.

• In 2004,Wal-Mart was named by Asian Enterprise magazine as one of the

top ten companies for Asian Americans.

• Wal-Mart received the 2002 Ron Brown Award, the highest Presidential

Award recognizing outstanding achievement in employee relations and

community initiatives.

• In a poll sponsored by Career and Disabled magazine in 2004,Wal-Mart

was recognized as one of the top companies in the nation for providing a

positive working environment for people with disabilities.

• ASDA was named the best place to work in the United Kingdom by

Fortune magazine in 2004.

• Wal-Mart Canada was named the best retailer to work for in Canada by

Report on Business Magazine in 2003 and 2004.

Employment/Job Creation

• Wal-Mart employs more than 1.2 million associates in the United States and

more than 385,000 associates internationally as of December 2004.

• Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. plans to create more than 100,000 new jobs in the

United States during 2005.

• In Mexico,Wal-Mart de Mexico plans to create more than 11,000 new jobs

in 2005.

• Each new supercenter in the U.S. creates approximately 400–500 jobs and

74 percent of Wal-Mart’s hourly store associates in the United States are

full-time. That’s well above the 20–40 percent typically found in the retail

industry.

• Each new SAM’S CLUB creates approximately 160–175 jobs.

• Typically, each new distribution center begins with 450–500 new jobs and

many of them grow to over 900 jobs within a year. (Virtually all of these

jobs are full-time.)

• Wal-Mart promotes from within. Seventy-six percent of Wal-Mart’s store

management team started in hourly positions with the company.

• Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. promoted more than 9,000 hourly associates to

management during the past year and many of those jobs did not require a

college degree.

• Frequently,Wal-Mart receives thousands of applications for our 400–500

job openings at a new supercenter. In New York,Wal-Mart estimated more

than 15,000 applicants applied for 400 jobs at a new store.

• Wal-Mart is a leading employer of African Americans (over 206,000

African American associates) and Hispanics (over 133,600 Hispanic

associates) in the U.S.

• In the United States,Wal-Mart is one of the largest employers of senior

citizens.

• Wal-Mart is proud of the more than 38,300 associates who have served in

the military. The company provides continuation of benefits and makes up

any difference between military pay and Wal-Mart wages for associates

who are called to active duty.

Wage/Benefits for Associates

• Our average wage for regular full-time hourly associates—such as cashiers,

stockers and sales associates—is almost twice the federal minimum wage.

No one at Wal-Mart is paid at or below the federal minimum wage.

• Wal-Mart benefits—available to full and part-time associates—include

healthcare insurance with no lifetime maximum.

• Wal-Mart insures more than 900,000 Americans, who pay as little as $17.50

for individual coverage and $70.50 for family coverage bi-weekly.

• Associates enrolled in the plan also have access to world class health care at

the Mayo Clinic, Stanford University Hospital, Johns Hopkins University

Hospital and many other health care facilities, all without insurance

approval.

• Other benefits include a profit sharing/401(k) plan, merchandise discounts,

company-paid life insurance, vacation pay and pay differential for those in

active military service.

• More than half of Wal-Mart’s associates own company stock through our

associate purchase plan.

• Wal-Mart projects that the company will spend $4.1 billion on benefits for

our associates in fiscal year 2005.

• Currently, 86 percent of Wal-Mart associates surveyed have medical

insurance; 56 percent of those with coverage received healthcare insurance