SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Store Operations and Customer Experience
SUMMARY: The text describes how Sam Walton and Don Soderquist visited new Wal-Mart stores, interacting with customers and staff, and evaluating a competitor's store to identify areas for improvement.
KEYWORDS: store openings, customer service, competitor analysis, inventory management, retail operations
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

day.

Sam and I flew out there from Bentonville very early that morning. He

went to the north store and I went to the south store. He cut the ribbon on the

north and I cut the ribbon on the south. We met at the store in the center of

town. We greeted customers, toured the store, and met with the associates—

the store looked great and we wanted to shake hands and thank our associates

for doing such an excellent job.

As with most of the grand openings, there were a lot of people there, and

before long Sam and I began to help bag merchandise. We handed out candy

to the kids and did anything we could think of to help the customers feel

more comfortable with the long lines. Sam got on the PA repeatedly, asking,

“Anybody need anything?” He would then continue, “We are so sorry that

you are being held up today. Next week things will settle down, and the lines

won’t be so long. Thank you for coming to our grand opening today and

being patient with us.”

We never felt we were too good to do the little things. We wanted to take

care of the people and to be an example to all associates that customers come

first. The chairman of the board bagging goods—what a message that sent to

the people and to me as well.

Before we left town, Sam wanted to stop at a nearby competitor that was

well known in the area. All it took was a first glance and I was ready to leave.

Frankly, the competitor’s store was terrible—rows and rows of empty

shelves, boxes strewn throughout the aisles, dirty floors, merchandise out of

stock, and no one to wait on us. It was an absolutely horrible-looking store.

But Sam wasn’t ready to leave.

He usually liked to browse and evaluate a store on his own, so he went his

way and I went mine. When we finally met back at the parking lot, he said,

“Don, what do you think?” (He was always asking, “What do you think?”He

wanted to know our opinions—and I think he wanted us to really think!)

I said,“Sam, that was the worst store I have ever seen in my life.” I told

him about the rows and rows of empty shelves, boxes in the aisles, dirty

floors, merchandise out of stock, and no one to wait on customers that I had

seen. “They won’t be tough competition at all,” I continued. I still believe to

this day that it’s the worst store I have ever seen. But I wisely asked Sam,

“What did you think?”

“Don, did you see the panty hose rack?” Sam asked.

“No, Sam, I missed it,” I confessed.“I must not have gone down that aisle.”

“Don, that was the best panty hose rack I have ever seen!” he exclaimed.

“We don’t have one that looks half as good as that one. I pulled the fixture

out and it had the name of the manufacturer on the back and I wrote down

their address. When we get back, I want you to call our fixture buyer and then

I want you to call the manufacturer of that fixture and get them into the

office. We need that rack in all our stores—it’s much better than ours.”

I asked, somewhat reluctantly this time, “Sam, what else did you see?”

“Don, did you see the ethnic cosmetics?”

“No, Sam, it must have been next to the panty hose rack. I missed it.”

“Don, they have twelve feet of ethnic cosmetics, and we have only four

feet. I wrote down some of the suppliers of the brands. When we get back, I

want you to have our cosmetic buyer contact them. We need to get them in

and to expand our ethnic cosmetics. They are doing a much better job then

we are, Don.”

That’s the way Sam thought—and that’s the way he taught. I will

appreciate that lesson for as long as I live. It changed the whole way I look at

a store. I never again looked for what was wrong with a competitor’s store,

but for what we could learn from it and how we could get better. That’s how

we strive for excellence.

Vision is the gift of seeing clearly what may be.

Vision expands our horizons.

The more we see, the more we can achieve; The grander our vision, the more glorious our

accomplishment.

The courage to follow our dreams is the first step toward destiny.

—Wynn Davis

Sam seldom listed all of his life and business principles; instead, he lived

them. He could have written books on leadership and life. But his life was an

open book and I learned by observing him that his principles were about

satisfying the customer, taking care of the associates, and getting better all of

the time.

He accomplished this through keeping his eyes and ears open to the little

things that were right in front of him. And that’s something all of us can do; I

know I learned how on the day that I missed the panty hose rack.

As Jonathan Swift said, “Vision is seeing what others don’t see.”

The role of the leader, then, is to paint a picture of that vision in such a

way that those he or she is leading will embrace it and make it their own. In

that way, all of the energies of the organization are focused on the same

objective. That’s when the vision happens.

A $2 Billion Dream

A CEO of a retail chain in the East told me a personal story that illustrates

Sam’s thought process as related to having high expectations. It happened in

a meeting the two attended together back in 1971.

There was a group of eight small regional discount store chains whose

executives met several times a year to share ideas on how to improve their