SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: The text describes how Sam Walton's keen observation and focus on learning from competitors helped shape Wal-Mart's retail strategy and vision.
KEYWORDS: retail strategy, competitive analysis, vision, leadership
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

I said,“Sam, that was the worst store I have ever seen in my life.” I told him about the rows and rows of empty shelves, boxes in the aisles, dirty floors, merchandise out of stock, and no one to wait on customers that I had seen. “They won’t be tough competition at all,” I continued. I still believe to this day that it’s the worst store I have ever seen. But I wisely asked Sam, “What did you think?”

“Don, did you see the panty hose rack?” Sam asked.

“No, Sam, I missed it,” I confessed.“I must not have gone down that aisle.” “Don, that was the best panty hose rack I have ever seen!” he exclaimed.

“We don’t have one that looks half as good as that one. I pulled the fixture out and it had the name of the manufacturer on the back and I wrote down their address. When we get back, I want you to call our fixture buyer and then I want you to call the manufacturer of that fixture and get them into the office. We need that rack in all our stores—it’s much better than ours.”

I asked, somewhat reluctantly this time, “Sam, what else did you see?” “Don, did you see the ethnic cosmetics?”

“No, Sam, it must have been next to the panty hose rack. I missed it.”

“Don, they have twelve feet of ethnic cosmetics, and we have only four feet. I wrote down some of the suppliers of the brands. When we get back, I want you to have our cosmetic buyer contact them. We need to get them in and to expand our ethnic cosmetics. They are doing a much better job then we are, Don.”

That’s the way Sam thought—and that’s the way he taught. I will appreciate that lesson for as long as I live. It changed the whole way I look at a store. I never again looked for what was wrong with a competitor’s store, but for what we could learn from it and how we could get better. That’s how we strive for excellence.

Vision is the gift of seeing clearly what may be. Vision expands our horizons.

The more we see, the more we can achieve; The grander our vision, the more glorious our

accomplishment.

The courage to follow our dreams is the first step toward destiny.

—Wynn Davis

Sam seldom listed all of his life and business principles; instead, he lived them. He could have written books on leadership and life. But his life was an open book and I learned by observing him that his principles were about satisfying the customer, taking care of the associates, and getting better all of the time.

He accomplished this through keeping his eyes and ears open to the little things that were right in front of him. And that’s something all of us can do; I know I learned how on the day that I missed the panty hose rack.

As Jonathan Swift said, “Vision is seeing what others don’t see.”

The role of the leader, then, is to paint a picture of that vision in such a way that those he or she is leading will embrace it and make it their own. In that way, all of the energies of the organization are focused on the same objective. That’s when the vision happens.

A $2 Billion Dream

A CEO of a retail chain in the East told me a personal story that illustrates Sam’s thought process as related to having high expectations. It happened in a meeting the two attended together back in 1971.

There was a group of eight small regional discount store chains whose executives met several times a year to share ideas on how to improve their

operations. None of their stores were in competition with each other, as they were in different geographical locations. The K-Mart chain was rapidly converting its Kresge dime stores to large discount stores, and these stores had become very tough competition for all of the small chains. The executives needed to be as sharp as they could if they wanted to continue to be successful.

Dream lofty dreams, and as you dream, so you shall become.Your vision is the promise of what you shall one day be; your ideal is the prophecy of what you shall at last unveil.

—James Lane Allen

The CEOs, the chief merchandise officers, and the chief operations officers would all meet near one of the members’ best stores. They would visit the store, analyze it, and then share their observations with the company’s leadership team. These critiques were very direct and to the point for the purpose of helping that chain improve its operations and service to its customers. Eventually every one of the chains would benefit from such a review by its peers.

At the end of one of these meetings in 1971, one of the CEOs thought it would be interesting to hear what each thought his company sales would be in ten years. The first CEO said that his sales were at $40 million in the past year, and he believed that they could move them up to $80 million in a decade. The next one said that his company’s sales were $60 million, and he expected to be at $100 million in ten years. Another said that sales were already at $100 million, and he believed his stores could reach $160 million in that period. Finally, Sam said that Wal-Mart sales were at $44 million, and he expected that in ten years they would reach $2 billion. Everyone laughed. What they didn’t understand at the time was that Sam was serious. Ten years later,Wal-Mart sales exceeded $2 billion. Sam modeled the power of high expectations.

If you don’t know where you’re going, it doesn’t matter which way you go.

—Lewis Carroll