SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Logistics and Distribution
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's continuous improvement in logistics and distribution, including warehouse management, inventory control, and transportation optimization.
KEYWORDS: logistics, distribution, warehouse management, inventory control, continuous improvement
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

At any point in time, there are numerous experiments under way, and many of them result in new systems that improve productivity and service. Wal-Mart culture has helped us to avoid the temptation to believe that “we have arrived.” We are always acutely aware that we still have a lot more to learn.

Over time, more and more of the items were added to the warehouse for convenient shipping to the stores. Eventually, over 80 percent of the merchandise that was sold in Wal-Mart stores was shipped directly from Wal-Mart warehouses. This significantly reduced the dollars tied up in inventory and improved the “in stock” position in all stores. We reached a point where we could control the flow of most of the merchandise we sold in

our stores, thereby significantly improving our service to our customers. This may not sound like a big deal more than thirty years later. But remember, at that point, we were the only retailer managing freight this way, and we had established the framework for revolutionizing logistics.

Continuous Improvement

As our company grew and expanded geographically,we continued to open new warehouses. We always aimed to build in smaller communities where we could help the local economy and provide jobs for the local people—we

felt a loyalty to our roots in small communities and found that the people living in these communities were usually very friendly and hardworking.

We started by looking in a general area on a map and identifying potential towns. A real-estate associate then visited all of the sites and recommended a few possibilities. We considered all the demographics involved, and then senior leadership flew out to look at the potential locations from the air— Sam liked to look at the road systems and traffic flow from that vantage— before driving around the area to take an up-close look. I remember the day that Sam and I flew over Cullman, Alabama, on one such trip. We had visited a number of other locations, but when Sam saw the rolling hills and chicken houses from the air he said, “Don, this is it. It looks just like northwest Arkansas.”

Gentlemen, the officer who doesn’t know his communications and supply as well as his tactics is totally useless.

—General George S. Patton

With a keen eye to improving on past performances, we built every new warehouse with major upgrades over the previous one. Each one has been more efficient, more cost-effective, and has had greater storage capacity than the last one. In order to move more merchandise and keep up with tremendous store growth, we then developed mechanization and then automation. As these new systems and processes were implemented, the older model distribution centers were retrofitted so the entire network was kept current and uniform.

At first, we outfitted our warehouses with the usual material-handling equipment and conveyor systems that the manufacturers were producing. Over time, we began to challenge them to build equipment that was better suited to our specific needs. They ended up designing and producing equipment that no one had even envisioned, and before long, the warehouses were transformed into state-of the-art, full-line distribution centers, including conveyor systems equipped with barcode scanners to read and sort cartons of merchandise and move those cartons from one place in the warehouse all the way to a specific point on the shipping dock and into a waiting trailer. This tremendously reduced time and costs to move merchandise. I believe that

Wal-Mart was a real pioneer in the application of material-handling equipment to a retail distribution center.

When solving problems, dig at the roots instead of just hacking at the leaves.

—Anthony J. D’Angelo

I remember a time when several of our frontline associates came to me, saying they weren’t able to move the merchandise through our conveyor system fast enough. We had already increased the speed of our conveyor belts as fast as they could go. Their idea was that since we couldn’t safely make the belts go any faster, we needed to get our conveyor manufacturer to reduce the distance between the cartons as they moved down the conveyor and thereby improve the output. The first reaction from the manufacturer management was unyielding—they had never done it before, and they believed they couldn’t do it. We encouraged them to go back to the drawing board and find a way. A few weeks later, they came back and said they could do it. They had to revise and upgrade a number of things in their camera and support systems that read the bar code. They did it for us within a short period of time.

Many of the innovations that our logistics team developed to make our distribution centers more effective and efficient are now being used in competitors’ distribution centers across the country. And we’ve continued to make advances. In the late nineties,Wal-Mart implemented special electronic equipment, including radio-frequency-controlled order filling systems. This meant that order fillers no longer worked off of printed documents or labels. Interacting with the computer through headsets and microphones attached to control units hooked on their belts, they received voice messages to identify the location and item number of each item to be picked. They verbally replied to the computer once they pulled the item, and the computer in turn verbally verified the accuracy of the item picked. This system not only improved productivity but also improved the accuracy of the entire order filling process. In addition,we have employed a method of having the computer assign locations to inbound freight and thereby electronically controlling both the storing and retrieving of all merchandise in the building.

Not only has our use of equipment changed, but the layout of the