SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Business Management and Operations
SUMMARY: This text describes Walmart's business practices, including regular meetings, open discussions, and accountability for financial performance and expense control.
KEYWORDS: business operations, management meetings, financial accountability, expense control, open communication
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

could share—and was expected to share—any pertinent information about his

or her area of the business. To some leaders this might seem a little

intimidating and too time consuming, but in Wal-Mart, this was a vital way

for us to stay on top of execution.

The discussion was very candid and open. No holds were barred, and we

got to the heart of an issue. Occasionally people’s feelings got hurt. We tried

not to get personal, but sometimes people crossed lines—and made

appropriate apologies! We tried to put all issues on the table, realizing if we

didn’t thoroughly understand a problem, we would never be able to solve it.

We expected the appropriate people to develop solutions and report back to

the group by the next meeting, if not sooner. This meeting was crucial in

helping senior leaders and all division heads stay close to every function of

the business and provided the opportunity to ask questions about anything

that wasn’t perfectly clear. It was also an ongoing challenge to the quality of

our execution.

Hard work means prosperity; only fools idle away their time.

—Proverbs 12:11 NLT

Merchandise and Operations Meeting

At noon, the regional vice presidents then met with the buyers and together

discussed what they had just seen in the stores and clubs from a merchandise

standpoint that week. With the regional VPs fresh from the Friday

management meeting, they could bring the entire buying division in touch

with what was going on in the field and had the opportunity to share

merchandising issues with the field operations. Senior leaders frequently

attended and participated in this meeting as well. These meetings were not

always fun—many debated differences of opinion, sometimes with strong

feelings. The purpose of these meetings was not only to share information but

also to solve problems, resolve differences of opinion, agree on solutions, and

then go out and make it happen.

Profit-and-Loss Review

Once a month, we held a profit-and-loss review meeting within the regular

Friday morning meeting. We examined the P&L in detail—and as you

already anticipated, no holds were barred. Everyone had to come prepared.

We reviewed even small items such as postage or phone charges, and we

gave each item close scrutiny. All leaders were expected to be able to answer

questions about any of their departments’ numbers that were not on budget.

This kind of accountability forced everyone to analyze his or her numbers

very carefully and take corrective action immediately. Constant monitoring of

expenses at all levels helped to keep our costs in line and kept us from having

any big quarterly or year-end surprises to report to stockholders. Everyone

was involved in expense control all the time.

Informal Feedback

If you want to be an effective leader, you need to cultivate one-on-one

feedback from trusted individuals throughout your organization, touching all

the different levels. Not people who will tell you what you want to hear, but

what you need to hear.

Success, real success, in any endeavor demands more from an individual than most people are willing

to offer—not more than they are capable of offering.

—James Roche

Over time, I developed relationships with a number of store managers,

district managers, distribution managers, regional vice presidents, and

longtime hourly associates whose opinions I respected. I knew I could trust

them to tell me exactly what they thought. I frequently called them and found

out how they felt things were going, how the associates’ morale was, and

what their biggest concerns were. This was a great way for me to stay in

touch and keep my finger on the pulse of the company. There were times

when I didn’t like what I heard, but the input was frequently helpful in

determining action that we needed to take.

I also called to ask their opinions if we were planning a major change in a

program. These associates were ones who really loved the company and

therefore didn’t just tell me what they thought I wanted to hear. Instead, they

thought about it and gave me great feedback on exactly what they thought the

impact would be on associates, customers, and the overall company.

I believe that these informal relationships can be valuable to senior leaders

as long as they use the information they receive in a confidential way. It is

also a great encouragement to these associates to know that their opinions are

important to you, and that they can make a significant difference in the

company. This is another way to help your people understand that leadership

cares about them.

Associate Access to Senior Leadership

The doors to the executive offices were always open unless we had a

private meeting with someone. The physically open door was a symbol:

senior leadership was accessible to our associates. Associates always knew

they could walk into our offices anytime they wanted to and share with us an

idea that they had come up with or something that concerned them. We

always listened to our associates.

Another important way to stay informed was through what I described in

chapter 4, the Open Door. More than just a means of voicing complaints, the

Open Door was a useful way to hear what was on our associates’ minds and

listen to their suggestions for improving the company. And we didn’t just

wait for associates to come to us. The open door swung both ways. Our

leaders practiced MBWA in the home office in the same way they did in the

field. I still have people tell me how much they appreciated the access they

had to us and the opportunity we gave them to share their ideas in an informal

way and be themselves.

As you can see,Wal-Mart places a great deal of emphasis on

communication and staying in touch with the ground-level functioning of the

company. At the same time, I realize that this does not assure that everything

will be done perfectly. Wal-Mart, like every other company, is made up of