SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Business Technology Leadership
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's Information Systems Division played a key role in the company's success by deeply integrating with the business and embracing a merchant-centric mindset.
KEYWORDS: business technology, technology leadership, information systems, retail technology, Wal-Mart
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

business leaders, not merely technicians. The executive responsible for

technology was a member of the senior leadership team of the company—to

my knowledge, we were the first major retailer to place someone at this level

—who participated in all of our meetings and stayed involved in all major

business initiatives. The involvement and input from our tech staff on the

front lines was extremely valuable in the decision-making process in areas

where systems support would be needed. We were so fortunate, over the

years, to have leadership in technology that was not only highly competent in

the technical side but who also zealously focused on the needs of the

business. Our information-systems associates have all been visionaries who

anticipated the increasing growth of the business and prepared for the needs

of tomorrow.

They also had an unusual and contagious sense of urgency in what they

did, often causing the members of their entire department to think and act

with the same intensity. Anytime someone brought up a problem or issue

related to technology in a meeting, it was not uncommon to see one of the

systems associates get up and leave the meeting hurriedly, only to reappear

before the meeting was over with either an answer or a commitment to find

an answer before next week.

The systems associates developed systems by actually working in the areas

that they were assigned, interacting directly with the people who would have

to make the systems work. They were assigned to a specific functional team,

which allowed them to get a full understanding of the workings of that area,

not just the technical side. And at least once a year, usually during the

Christmas season when the stores were extremely busy, systems associates

did something we called Store (or Club) Appreciation, where nearly all of the

systems associates went out and worked in the stores and clubs, doing what

the store associates had to do. This was a great education for them, and they

learned about the practical application of the systems they developed.

Companies should strive to provide the individualized customer service of the old days, while

embracing the technology of the future.

The commitments of Wal-Mart’s Information Systems Division were:

1. Know the Business.

2. Build It Right.

3. Show the Value.

4. Count on Us.

5. Teach Them.

At Wal-Mart, these five commitments were based on and underscored by

the simple motto: “Think like a merchant.” Admittedly, this is an unusual

statement for a technology department, but that’s how Wal-Mart’s

technology workers stayed attuned to the needs and realities of our business.

Information-systems workers tend to be bright, resourceful, and creative. I

think that simple motto, “Think like a merchant,” is what made our

information-systems associates the very best in the business.

Leading the Way

In addition to their detailed involvement in our business, our information-

systems associates also have outstanding technical skills. Wal-Mart has been

at the forefront of almost all technological innovation in the retail industry.

We were one of the first retailers to effectively use electronic scanners for

point-of-sale (POS) capture of item movement at the cash register.

We were leaders in the development of the Universal Product Code (UPC)

and its placement on all merchandise, a process in which the manufacturer

assigns a unique but standardized code to each individual item. This method

has revolutionized order processing, scanning customers’ merchandise at the

front registers, data collection, replenishment, and other aspects of business

for every retailer and every manufacturer in the world. The retailing industry

did not generally accept UPC in its early days. Many thought it would be

impossible to get everyone to agree on standardization and that the method

would ultimately cost too much for everyone to adopt. Our perseverance

prevailed, though, and we made it happen. Today, nearly every retailer and

manufacturer in the world uses UPC and recognizes it as the very foundation

of all merchandise processing.

Wal-Mart was also the first retailer to extensively use Electronic Data

Interchange (EDI) for transmission of purchase orders for merchandise

directly to manufacturers, then receive their confirmation and invoices back

from them electronically. This process has considerably reduced time, errors,

and costs for the entire industry.

We’ve never shied away from a technological advance if it would help us

fulfill the Wal-Mart vision. To quote once again from Bradford C. Johnson in

the McKinsey Quarterly:

The company [Wal-Mart] invested in most of the waves of retail IT systems earlier and more

aggressively than did its competitors; it was among the first retailers to use computers to

track inventory (1969), just as it was one of the first to adopt bar codes (1980), EDI for better

coordination with suppliers (1985), and wireless scanning guns (late 1980s). These

investments, which allowed Wal-Mart to reduce its inventory significantly and to reap

savings, boosted its capital productivity and labor productivity. Wal-Mart’s secret was to

focus its IT investments on applications that directly enhanced its core value proposition of

low prices. The company’s later IT investments—such as the Retail Link program, which

captures sales data and gives vendors real-time stock and flow information—are aimed more

1

at increasing sales through micro-merchandising and cutting the incidence of stock-outs.

We’ve consistently been among the first in the retail industry when it

comes to finding and creating new opportunities through technology. In

1987,Wal-Mart developed a satellite communications network that extended

to every store, every club, and every distribution center in the country. We

used the network to transmit the stores’ merchandise orders directly into our

main computer for processing. After processing, the order-filling documents

were sent to the specific distribution center that evening for filling and

shipping the next day. Simultaneously, the computer adjusted and maintained

the store inventories for every item in the store.

Later on, we used the satellite network to speed up credit-card approval

and transactions for the stores and clubs. We also used this system for many

other types of communication, including transmission of training programs to