SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Management and Engagement
SUMMARY: This text discusses Walmart's approach to treating its associates with respect and dignity, leading to a highly engaged and loyal workforce.
KEYWORDS: employee engagement, employee treatment, Walmart culture, leadership approach, team work
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

people in other companies, but there is something very special about Wal-

Mart associates the world over. The biggest part of that special something

begins with the way management treats people. Hundreds and hundreds of

times I have had associates say to me that they have never experienced the

relationship they have with Wal-Mart management anywhere they previously

worked. Management is accessible to them, talks to them, listens to them, and

even works beside them. Wal-Mart associates are proud to be a part of the

“family” and are loyal to the company.

I will have no man work for me who has not the capacity to become a

partner.

—J. C. Penney

Whether your organization is a large corporate entity or a small business

with only a few employees, a winning team is born the day leaders purpose to

make people feel that they are significant and that their work has value by

treating them with dignity and respect.

What Do Respect and Dignity Look Like?

One of my most important lessons about treating people with respect and

dignity happened in Bartlett, Tennessee, in 1990. I walked into the Wal-Mart

store, and it looked great. I can walk into any Wal-Mart store and in five

minutes—ten at the outside—tell you how well that store is run by what I see,

what I hear, and what I observe on the part of the Wal-Mart associates.

This store looked terrific: the shelves were well stocked, the store was neat

and clean, and everybody was friendly and smiling. I didn’t introduce myself

to management; I just walked around, talking to associates and customers.

In the Infants Department, I saw three managers working together. I

walked over, introduced myself, and asked what they were all doing in the

same department. They pointed to the Infants’ manager and said, “Oh, she

just needs a little help—she is a brand-new manager and we are back here

helping her for a while.”

I asked who had told them to help her. They replied that no one had

specifically told them to help her, but they knew she was still trying to learn

the department and it was very busy that morning. “We just knew she had a

lot of work to do, so we came back to help her.”

What a delight to work in an environment where people don’t have to be

told everything that has to be done. Those associates in that store were

obviously well trained and had a great attitude. They operated as a team.

I went into the lunchroom in the back of the store and asked a group of

hourly associates to join me for a visit. I loved to do that every time I went

into a store because it gave me an opportunity to listen to our associates and

hear what was on their minds. I could easily get a feeling about how things

were going in the store, how they felt the manager was doing, and how he or

she was treating them. I asked them to evaluate their store on such things as

customer service, housekeeping, having products in stock, signage, morale,

and other issues. I found most associates to be incredibly honest and

forthright in describing their work world to me. (I think their candor is

powerful testimony to the fact that Wal-Mart truly has an open

communication style where most associates aren’t intimidated that a “big

shot” from corporate is visiting. Believe me, they aren’t intimidated!) They

knew they had the freedom to express themselves—and make a difference.

No man will make a great leader who wants to do it all himself, or to get all the credit for doing it.

—Andrew Carnegie

Sam set some dynamics in motion that were a joy to experience. Whenever

I left a store, I had gained so much knowledge and encouragement from the

associates, it was my humble privilege to thank them for what they were

doing and encourage them. Oftentimes, I wasn’t sure who had encouraged

whom the most!

As we sat there that day in Bartlett, Tennessee, I told a group of hourly

department managers about my experience in the Infants section and other

things I had seen in their store. I told them how proud I was of how they were

operating their store. One of the department managers asked me if I had seen

their rest rooms.

“No—why?” I asked back. “Should I have seen your rest rooms?”

She said that they had the cleanest rest rooms in any Wal-Mart in the

country. I asked her why and she told me that it was because of Gracie, the

cleaning lady. She said that she took the job seriously and did fantastic work.

I asked someone to go out to the sales floor and have her join us.

After a few minutes, a lady walked into the room, and immediately all of

the other associates and department managers stood and gave her a standing

ovation. She could barely look up because she was so embarrassed. But her

shy smile showed that she was pleased. What a wonderful way of doing

business—treating people with respect and dignity and honoring their hard

work. The associates working in Bartlett that day taught me a wonderful

lesson about respecting all of the associates, no matter what their titles or jobs

might be.

Everyone Equally Important

In Wal-Mart, we say that no one is more important than anyone else. The

Bartlett store showed me what that means. It means that we all have different

roles and titles, but everyone in this company is just as important as everyone

else. Furthermore, the best way to get people to perform is by treating them

right, by making them feel important. Giving people a sense of significance is

the best motivation, the best way to get people fired up about their jobs, their

company, and the contributions they can make. Find little ways of impacting