SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Business Culture and Leadership
SUMMARY: This text explores how Walmart's strong corporate culture and values-based leadership enabled the company to thrive even after the loss of its founder, Sam Walton.
KEYWORDS: corporate culture, values-based leadership, transition of leadership, Sam Walton, Walmart
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

How can we satisfy our customers better?”We viewed competition as healthy

and good because it always made us better, and I believe we in turn made the

competition better.

Sam’s Cultural Legacy

In the early morning hours of April 5, 1992, Sam Walton passed into

eternity. The founder, the entrepreneur, the leader, the legend was gone.

Surely, he would be missed, and Wal-Mart would never be the same again.

Many companies never recover when the founder leaves. And we certainly

knew that Sam Walton could never be replaced.

At the time, many business analysts predicted that Wal-Mart would

become just another company at best and that our aura of success would

certainly fade during the transition to a next generation of leadership. But the

Wal-Mart people had another thought in mind: “Let’s show the world that not

only did Sam Walton build a successful company—he built people, he built

confidence, he built a belief system, and he built a culture that is

enduring.”And so, as a fitting tribute to him,Wal-Mart has continued to be an

amazing success.

The single most important factor in determining the climate of an organization is the top executive.

—Charles Galloway

When Sam died, we had 1,945 stores in two countries, with 371,000

associates, and revenues of $43.8 billion. As of January 31, 2004,Wal-Mart

had 4,906 stores in eleven countries, with 1.5 million associates, and

revenues of $256.3 billion—a 600 percent rate of growth. No one would be

more pleased and proud than Sam.

There is no doubt in my mind that the culture of Wal-Mart was the force

that enabled us to prevail in the face of all kinds of challenges, including the

loss of our leader. And we have done so, rising to become the largest

company in the world. Culture is incredibly important in the success of any

organization. I’m not suggesting that it is a substitute for competence; but I

am emphatically saying that culture gives ongoing life to that competence

and allows it to achieve all that it can.

Values Are the Beginning of Culture

The Wal-Mart culture that I have been talking about begins with our values

—those things that you hold to be intrinsically good. Values identify what

you stand for. In a sense, these values are the very foundation of your culture,

those basic principles on which you are unwilling to compromise. All people

—even thieves—have values that they live by. It is extremely important that

the values in any organization be clearly articulated for and understood by

everyone in that organization.

The following core values have guided Wal-Mart associates over the years

and are woven into the very fabric of our culture:

• Integrity

• Respect

• Teamwork

• Communication

• Excellence

• Accountability

• Trust

We would never tolerate a breach in our integrity. From the beginning, it

was wrong to lie, cheat, or steal. We did not ignore even small instances of

failing to tell the truth. Leadership clearly spelled out disciplinary processes

on integrity issues, including the possibility of termination.

Respect meant that all employees were to be respected no matter their

positions, titles, genders, races, or religious beliefs. Your point of view was

important even if you disagreed with your supervisor.

Teamwork meant that no one could do it alone. You had to depend on

others, and others had to be able to depend on you.

Communication was essential at all levels in the company. This meant

communication in both directions—dialogue. It meant listening as well as

talking.

Excellence meant that we were always striving to improve—we had a

willingness to change if it would make us better.

Accountability meant that each person was responsible for his or her

personal actions. Each was expected to perform at an acceptable level.

Trust is the basis of all relationships. All associates were expected to act in

a manner that would engender the trust of those they worked with: customers,

suppliers, fellow associates, and members of the community.

Our values became our culture. Over time we changed everything about

our company—the look of our stores and clubs, the way we transported

merchandise, our merchandise assortment, our business systems, and many of

our strategies—but never our values. They were the foundation of everything

we did.

It is so sad today to see companies struggle and even fail because they lose

sight of the vision and values that were the very reasons they were successful

in the first place. When Sam passed away, we were determined not to let our

values deteriorate as individuals and as a company.

What You Do Is a Reflection of What You Believe

When I first joined Wal-Mart, wherever I spoke, people wanted to know

how Wal-Mart had been able to be so successful in the past, even though we

were still quite a small company in comparison to the giant retailers of that

day. I had observed the company both from the outside and then from the

inside and developed an important list of the things we did right. My outline

included our real estate strategy, our everyday low pricing of merchandise,

our merchandise assortment, our people programs—and numerous other

business strategies.

A principle is a principle. And in no case can it be watered down because of our incapacity to live it in

practice.We have to strive to achieve it, and the striving should be conscious, deliberate and hard.

—Mahatma Gandhi

After a while, I began to realize that these strategies weren’t the bottom-

line driving force behind our success. First of all, I had to recognize that we

certainly weren’t the only company with good business practices. And over

time, I had to acknowledge that strategies, to be effective, had to be fine-

tuned constantly. But there was something much more fundamental that

didn’t change: the foundational beliefs of the company. It became very

apparent to me that everything we did grew out of what we believed, and

what we believed was a direct result of our values.