SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and Leadership
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of treating employees with respect and dignity as a key to Wal-Mart's success, highlighting the company's family-like culture and the role of leaders in developing and energizing the team.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, employee engagement, leadership development, Wal-Mart, people management
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

approachability and can-do attitude infected his whole organization. Hey, if

all it took was a hula, it was a small price to pay.

For reflection and action:

1. Have you ever sat down to write out your core values and beliefs? Have

you determined those issues on which you are unwilling to compromise?

This need not be an extensive list. Better to be diligent with just a few

essential beliefs than to consider many things important but never really

adhere to any of them.

2. Have you embraced the values of your organization? (Do you even know

what they are?) Have you accepted the leadership task of being a role

model in your company in word and deed? How can you improve in this

area?

3. Describe in two or three sentences your company’s culture. Do you

practice it on purpose? Does it have you poised for success? What can you

do to build a more positive corporate culture?

Chapter 4

People Make the Difference

The highest compliment leaders can receive is the one that is given by the people who work

for them. It is only as we develop others that we permanently succeed.

—Harvey S. Firestone

Wal-Mart Way Principle #4

True success is achieved in direct proportion to the degree that an organization treats its people with

respect and dignity—and believes in them enough to help them grow.

The Wal-Mart Way is not about stores, clubs, distribution centers, trucks,

or computers. These tangible assets are all crucial ingredients in the

company’s business plan, but the real story of success is about people. It’s

about Sam Walton and other leaders who have served through the years. It’s

about middle managers and every single hourly associate who serves the

company and customer so faithfully.

Systems, strategies, and infrastructure are all extremely important. But

people make things happen! As much as any other company that I am aware

of, large or small, Wal-Mart has most closely resembled a true family. Yes,

we are diverse, with many different people—and different kinds of people—

in many different locations doing many different things, but we have always

worked together to make the company successful and be true to the vision

that we share. I am not suggesting that we did everything right, but we moved

quickly to correct our mistakes.

Energizing a Team

I know of no other company that has appreciated and respected the value

of every individual the way Wal-Mart has. Now, I do know of many

companies that treat their associates quite well—and I don’t know of too

many companies, though amazingly there are more than a few, which have

built into their culture a pattern of neglect and indifference. But the issue of

treating everyone in an organization with esteem is so important for success

and satisfaction in the workplace, I would say that if your company evidences

a greater appreciation and respect for associates than Wal-Mart, all the better

and I commend you. (And I want to know what you are doing so Wal-Mart

can learn and do better!)

Never minimize the positive impact of a pat on the back or a kind word at the right time.

Treating people with dignity was a key component of Sam’s business plan.

On the simplest of levels, he just plain liked people. Everyone. From all

walks of life—rich and poor, black and white, men and women, big city and

small town—he liked them all.

But Sam also shrewdly recognized the power of having everyone believe

in the same vision and work toward a common goal. He realized early on that

he couldn’t do it all himself and that the way to be most successful would be

to energize all of the team members to do and become their very best. He also

accepted the fact that people generally are a lot more capable than they’re

given credit for, and he embraced the task of encouraging his associates by

listening to them and treating them right.

Sam had a great quote on the wall in his office that was a constant

reminder to me of how to treat everyone I came in contact with:

If you treat an individual as he is, he will stay as he is; but if you treat him as if he were as he

ought to be and could be, he will become what he ought to be and could be. (Johann

Wolfgang von Goethe)

Sam understood and believed in people.

All of the people strategies we developed over the years were founded on

the belief that people are valuable and perform best when they are well cared

for. As a result, to say “Our people make the difference” is not just a nice-

sounding motto—it has truly taken wings as a major—the major—

component in the Wal-Mart success story. We are a group of ordinary people

who have valued each other and worked together in a way that has produced

extraordinary results.

The Power of Recognition

All people deserve to be treated with respect and dignity because, after all,

God created us all in His image. People need to feel that someone cares about

them; that someone is listening to their ideas. The return on the investment of

a “thank you” is infinite because it costs nothing—but what matters most to

people are time and attention.

Leadership is not wielding authority—it’s empowering people.

—Becky Brodin

Several years ago, Peter Drucker, a prolific author and incredibly insightful

thinker on the subject of leadership, was asked what he thought were the

three most important things he had learned about leadership over the years.

His response was:

1. Keep it simple; don’t overcomplicate anything you do.

2. The two most important phrases are “please” and “thank you.”

3. Never ask who is right, but always ask what is right.

I wish every supervisor, every manager, every officer, every CEO, every

leader in any organization could understand those three simple points. They