SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Cost Management Strategy
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's focus on driving down costs and passing the savings to customers through everyday low prices is a key part of their business strategy.
KEYWORDS: cost reduction, productivity loop, everyday low prices, cost management, business strategy
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

leaders practiced MBWA in the home office in the same way they did in the

field. I still have people tell me how much they appreciated the access they

had to us and the opportunity we gave them to share their ideas in an informal

way and be themselves.

As you can see,Wal-Mart places a great deal of emphasis on

communication and staying in touch with the ground-level functioning of the

company. At the same time, I realize that this does not assure that everything

will be done perfectly. Wal-Mart, like every other company, is made up of

imperfect people, and sometimes leaders make mistakes. But our leaders

make every effort to be aware of what’s going on so that we can head off

problems and continue to improve. In order to accomplish this, leadership

works extremely hard at paying attention to the details of the business.

Everyday Low Costs—the Productivity Loop

“If I’ve learned anything about Wal-Mart, it’s that cost is king,” said

Edward Fox, director of the J. C. Penney Center for Retail Excellence at

Southern Methodist University. He continued, “They have an almost single-

minded focus on reducing costs. It’s imbued throughout the organization.

They are very stingy when they buy for America and distribute products for

1

America.”

There is no argument that everyday low prices stand out as a significant

reason customers shop at Wal-Mart. And everyday low prices are not

possible without everyday low costs. Since the day I joined Wal-Mart, I

never questioned the company’s strong emphasis on keeping costs as low as

possible and finding ways to reduce them even further.

To fully understand the Wal-Mart strategy on controlling costs in order to

reduce prices to customers, you must understand the logic behind it. The

principle at the heart of making this work was what we called the

Productivity Loop.

Every time we save a dollar, that puts us one more step ahead of the competition—which is where we

always want to be.

—Sam Walton

The Productivity Loop says that if you can drive costs out of the business,

you can reduce prices to your customers. If you reduce prices to your

customers, your sales should increase. When your sales increase, your costs

as a percent of sales go down, making it possible to reduce your prices to

customers again, and so on. Add to that formula a constant cultural pressure

to reduce all other unnecessary costs in the business, and it is possible to

achieve a compounding effect. Although it’s really quite a simple formula,

many people didn’t believe that we could continue to make it work. But the

Productivity Loop method and philosophy are still working today, and we

keep reducing prices to the customer.

Driving Costs Out

The only way to continue to reduce costs is to make it a priority and weave

that philosophy into the very fabric of the culture of the organization. It also

requires the leaders’ diligence and discipline and demands accountability for

all costs, no matter how large or small. That’s a hallmark of the Wal-Mart

way of doing business: driving unnecessary costs out of every area. It is a

relentless pursuit of finding ways to do it better, improving productivity and

passing savings on to the customer.

There are many possible approaches to attacking costs in an organization,

but one thing I know for certain: you must attack them constantly or they will

grow disproportionate to your sales, and as a result, your profits will be in

jeopardy. The steps necessary for an effective expense control program in

any organization are:

• Create a company-wide consciousness about controlling all expenses.

• Carefully watch what you spend.

• Maintain a discipline about how you spend it.

• Periodically review your processes.

• Simplify the processes that you can.

• Eliminate what you don’t need (including entire functions).

• Consolidate functions that make sense.

• Improve productivity with the help of systems and automation.

• Establish accountability throughout the organization.

Since everyday low costs were essential to our overall marketing strategy,

cost control had to be ingrained into our daily lives at Wal-Mart. We believed

that we needed to have policies that reinforced this same attitude. We

believed that we needed to pay attention to the details of the business and be

very diligent in analyzing all of our numbers constantly to spot any

developing problems. Finally, we believed that we needed to stop every once

in a while and reexamine everything we did and look for opportunities to

change and improve.

Following are excerpts from an article by Bradford C. Johnson, a

consultant with the business research group,McKinsey Company.

Retail may be the last place you would expect to find a productivity miracle.Yet retail

productivity growth, as measured by real value added per hour, jumped from 2 percent

(1987–95) to 6.3 percent (1995–99), explaining nearly one quarter of the economy-wide

acceleration in productivity. More than half of the productivity acceleration in the retailing

of general merchandise can be explained by only two syllables: Wal-Mart. A variety of Wal-

Mart innovations, both large and small, are now industry standards. Wal-Mart created the

large-scale, or “big-box,” format; “everyday low prices”; electronic data interchange (EDI)

with suppliers; and the strategy of expanding around central distribution centers. These

innovations allowed the company to pass its saving on to customers.The Wal-Mart story is a

clear refutation of new-economy hype. At least half of Wal-Mart’s productivity edge stems

from managerial innovations that improve the efficiency of stores and have nothing to do

with IT [information technologies]; employees who have been cross-trained, for instance,

can function effectively in more than one department at a time. Better training of cashiers

and monitoring of utilization can increase productivity rates at checkout counters by 10 to 20

percent. Competitors began to adopt Wal-Mart’s innovations in earnest in the mid-1990s.

Wal-Mart still has a large productivity edge over its competitors and continues to raise the

2

bar.