SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Corporate Culture Management
SUMMARY: The Wal-Mart Way emphasizes a culture of continuous improvement, with frequent meetings and communication to share the company's values and beliefs with all associates.
KEYWORDS: continuous improvement, corporate culture, employee engagement, communication, Wal-Mart
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

A Culture of Continuous Improvement

Striving for excellence means never being satisfied—always doing things to keep improving, even if it means changing everything we do. It means we

never feel that we have arrived. We don’t believe our press clippings. We don’t get complacent and pat ourselves on the backs. We talk about what we could have done better. We believe that we can achieve extraordinary results when we strive for excellence in all we do.

Sharing the Culture

After the process of defining and developing a company’s core values and beliefs, how do you keep these dynamics—the culture of an organization— alive and relevant? The obvious answer is to talk about them and do so frequently, repeating them over and over again. At Wal-Mart, we are intentional about dispersing our culture throughout the company and determined that our values and beliefs be on the mind of every associate.

Our Friday morning meetings for all officers and division heads and Saturday morning meetings for all management people serve as important times to communicate and illustrate the culture of the company to leadership. Weekly and even daily meetings in stores and warehouses provide the opportunity for all general managers to share with associates not only information about operations, but also elements of the culture. Quarterly meetings for hourly associates in the home office reiterate important aspects of our culture. Year-beginning meetings and midyear meetings for store, club, warehouse, transportation, and specialty division associates are additional opportunities for sharing our beliefs. And we have taken advantage of every single one of these opportunities to preach Wal-Mart culture.

Every company’s leadership plans regular meetings to interact with its associates. The question for all companies, however, isn’t whether they hold meetings. The question to ask yourself: is your culture a high enough priority to invest time in it?

Each year Wal-Mart holds its shareholders’ meeting on the first Friday of June. There are usually over eighteen thousand people at the meeting, which lasts from 7:00 AM until noon. Every year, each store, club, warehouse, and home office department (including those in all international countries) sends at least one associate to these shareholders meetings as a representative of its operating unit. The associates come in on Tuesday and leave after the

meeting on Friday at noon. During this time, they have meetings scheduled with the buyers and other home office associates, where they ask questions and share their ideas on how to improve the company. They have great observations and suggestions, many of which are implemented throughout the whole company. Before they go home, they are given a recap of all their suggestions and what the company is going to do about them. When they go back to their stores, they are given a chance to share with the associates in their local operations about their experiences. During this process, they not only learn more about the company and the company culture, but they actually experience it—and pass it on.

Store managers and district managers are on the front lines every day and in constant contact with our customers. It is extremely important to keep them informed on company direction, supporting and living out the company culture and excited about the company. Therefore, we believe that it is important to have personal contact with them as frequently as possible. As a result, we hold large meetings twice a year in convention centers and bring them, along with key assistant managers, in from all over the country.

Every department provides large merchandise displays, buyers give seminars on product knowledge, and other home office associates review direction in categories like marketing, operations, and personnel. General sessions include presentations by outside speakers on leadership and by senior management on company performance and the direction for the company for the upcoming months and the rest of the year. These are motivational experiences for everyone, and culture is woven into most every part of the program.

Meetings are not the only time in which we communicate our culture.

Quarterly, several members of senior management, including the CEO, go into the television studio and send a televised broadcast to the stores, which is shown in our break rooms to share with all associates the state of the company. The broadcasts—spontaneous, humorous, and informal—are a fun way to let all associates in on the attitude and culture of the company.

The Saturday meeting might be the specific time in the week when Wal- Mart does its most important work as a company.

The Saturday Morning Meeting

When I first joined the company, I learned that all management in the home office gathered in a small meeting room in the back corner of the warehouse at 7:30 AM for the Saturday morning meeting.

I’ll never forget my first Saturday morning meeting. After we covered sales, Sam went row by row to see if anyone had anything he or she wanted to say, and to my surprise, many of the associates did.

A manager from the construction department stood up and said that he had been at one of our stores being built in Texas. He pointed out that we were well ahead of our construction schedule in that town and that we had pulled even with a competitor who had started building a unit in the same town much earlier. He told the merchandise team that if it could ship the merchandise early to our store, we could open before our competitor did.

That blew my mind. My experience was that construction people were interested only in building a building. But there was a Wal-Mart associate who was interested in beating the competition.