SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Recognition
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of treating people with dignity, respect, and recognition to motivate and engage employees for business success.
KEYWORDS: employee recognition, employee motivation, people management, leadership, Wal-Mart culture
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Never minimize the positive impact of a pat on the back or a kind word at the right time.

Treating people with dignity was a key component of Sam’s business plan.

On the simplest of levels, he just plain liked people. Everyone. From all walks of life—rich and poor, black and white, men and women, big city and small town—he liked them all.

But Sam also shrewdly recognized the power of having everyone believe in the same vision and work toward a common goal. He realized early on that he couldn’t do it all himself and that the way to be most successful would be to energize all of the team members to do and become their very best. He also accepted the fact that people generally are a lot more capable than they’re given credit for, and he embraced the task of encouraging his associates by listening to them and treating them right.

Sam had a great quote on the wall in his office that was a constant reminder to me of how to treat everyone I came in contact with:

If you treat an individual as he is, he will stay as he is; but if you treat him as if he were as he ought to be and could be, he will become what he ought to be and could be. (Johann   Wolfgang von Goethe)

Sam understood and believed in people.

All of the people strategies we developed over the years were founded on the belief that people are valuable and perform best when they are well cared for. As a result, to say “Our people make the difference” is not just a nice- sounding motto—it has truly taken wings as a major—the major— component in the Wal-Mart success story. We are a group of ordinary people who have valued each other and worked together in a way that has produced extraordinary results.

The Power of Recognition

All people deserve to be treated with respect and dignity because, after all, God created us all in His image. People need to feel that someone cares about them; that someone is listening to their ideas. The return on the investment of a “thank you” is infinite because it costs nothing—but what matters most to people are time and attention.

Leadership is not wielding authority—it’s empowering people.

—Becky Brodin

Several years ago, Peter Drucker, a prolific author and incredibly insightful thinker on the subject of leadership, was asked what he thought were the three most important things he had learned about leadership over the years.

His response was:

Keep it simple; don’t overcomplicate anything you do.

The two most important phrases are “please” and “thank you.”

Never ask who is right, but always ask what is right.

I wish every supervisor, every manager, every officer, every CEO, every leader in any organization could understand those three simple points. They don’t sound that sophisticated or significant, but if they were understood and practiced, they would have a profound impact on any organization. What could be more important than motivating your people through attention and respect? How do you think those you work with would feel if they truly knew you felt they were important?

One Saturday morning in a local Wal-Mart store, I stood behind a department manager who was talking to her husband, son, and daughter. She said to them, “See this counter that Mommy set up? The store manager came by and said I did a great job.”

She was already proud of the job she had done, but the fact that her store manager felt that she had done a good job and took the time to tell her was powerful. I believe those simple words of recognition and appreciation had a

very positive and significant impact on her feelings toward the manager, the company, the customers—and herself! People internalize recognition and encouragement from others, and these become a self-renewing source of motivation to continue growing and achieving—and buying into a company’s vision and doing a good job every day.

Recognizing someone’s efforts may not seem like a big deal in the overall scheme of corporate strategies, but it was a big deal to that department manager and her family. As Ken Blanchard once said,“Who needs encouragement? Anybody who is breathing!” I totally agree with that on a personal and a professional level.

Everybody Wants to Be Somebody

Author A. L. Williams, an insurance executive with keen insight into human nature, wrote the classic book Pushing People Up, which I have kept on my desk as a reminder of a number of important people principles. The first chapter is titled “Everybody Wants to Be Somebody.” The chapter title alone was worth the price of the book—it stopped me in my tracks and made me think differently about the world around me: everybody really does want to be recognized as an individual who can contribute something worthwhile. No matter what your job is or whom you work for, it is very important to feel important. If you feel that management genuinely cares about you and recognizes your worth, then you will be much more dedicated to that company.

Lest you think this is a simple pop-psychology technique to use to get others to do what you want, think about what it means for you to recognize fellow workers. It means:

You are paying attention to your environment—a common characteristic and discipline of ambitious, growing individuals.

You are self-assured of your own contributions and aren’t caught up in petty competitions and proving you’re smarter than everyone else.

You stand out because you are optimistic and positive—not everyone

chooses to find the positives in individuals or situations.

You have the confidence to express yourself—and communication is the lifeblood of all good relationships and organizations.