SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Entrepreneurial Vision
SUMMARY: The text describes how Sam Walton's dream of owning a store, driven by his values and commitment to growth, led to the creation of the Walmart empire.
KEYWORDS: entrepreneurship, vision, growth, values, Walmart
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

terms and in more fruitful areas.

—Melvin Powers

Wal-Mart Way Principle #1

Every successful venture begins with a dream that requires determination, passion, and the willingness

to grow if it is to be fulfilled.

O

nce upon a time there was a man, and that man had a dream. In some ways

it was an ordinary dream, not so different from the dreams of millions of

others. But it was also uncommon as dreams go. It wasn’t to build the tallest

building in the world or to build the longest bridge. It wasn’t to make a

million dollars before he was thirty years old, or to become the richest man in

the world. It wasn’t to bring honor and glory to himself, or to be one of the

most recognized men in the world. Nor was it to be the president of the

country he loved so much. His dream was really quite simple: he wanted to

own his own store.

Well, maybe his dream wasn’t quite that simple. Because he had some

very firm ideas on why—and how—he wanted to own a store. His dream was

empowered by his desire to:

• Serve people well.

• Build a winning team.

• Work hard.

• Impact people’s lives for good.

• Have fun.

• Support his family.

• Honor his Lord.

But what made this man’s dream extraordinary—and grow beyond his or

anyone else’s wildest expectations—was that he cultivated it with a personal

commitment to learn, to grow, to accomplish in one lifetime all that he could.

One day at a time and every day.

That man’s name was Sam Walton, and so the dream began.

• He bought his own store—a small variety store.

• He found a supplier of merchandise—Ben Franklin.

• He worked really, really hard.

• He had fun and created excitement wherever he went.

• He touched people’s lives.

• He treated people well.

• He made many friends.

• He was a loving husband and father.

• His sales increased, and his profits grew.

The First Detour—All Roads Lead to Bentonville

Sam unexpectedly lost the lease on his first store in Newport, Arkansas.

Did that end the dream? Not on your life; he had tasted success, and it tasted

good. He had the fever now and more than ever, he knew he could do it—he

knew it could be done!

So the dream continued. He searched the countryside, found a town named

Bentonville, Arkansas, and pinpointed a new store location. He improved his

business methods by constantly talking to his associates, his competitors, and

his customers. When things didn’t work, he changed them. When customers

asked for more value and variety, he worked doggedly to fulfill those

requests. He did a lot of things right. (And, of course, he made a few mistakes

along the way.) And with a growing passion for his dream, with a smile and

homespun charisma, he created a buzz, an excitement, a sense of anticipation

around and within his company. He had a lot of fun doing it. And his sales

continued to grow.

Sam was always looking to the future and his dream. Why not two stores?

Why not three—or even four? He went to his brother and said,“Bud, I need

your help. It’s getting too big for me. This business I have going really

works. If you treat people special and you sell customers what they want to

buy, they keep coming back. But I need to make some changes if I want to

grow. I can’t keep up with all the tasks and all the details anymore. I’ll stay

involved, you can bet on that, but I can’t do it all myself. I need to start

depending a whole lot more on others.

“Please come and join me. Let’s find some good people. Let’s train them.

Let’s show them what we want them to do. Let’s trust them with running our

stores, and then let’s pay them what they earn from the profits of our stores.

Let’s talk to our customers and our associates. We need to keep getting

better. We need to learn from our competitors but do it even better than they

do. We need to change the shelves in the store, the merchandise we sell, the

signs, and the store hours. We’ve got to do whatever it takes to satisfy our

customers.”

A Second Detour—the Birth of Wal-Mart

Sam’s business continued to grow. He and his brother, Bud, continued to

add stores until by 1962 they had built a regional chain of fifteen stores. They

had become Ben Franklin’s largest franchisee.

But not content to rest on his already considerable accomplishments, Sam

traveled across the land and watched what his most successful competitors

were doing. They were building larger and larger stores.

“Our stores are too small,” he said to Bud. “There’s not enough room for

all the merchandise our customers are asking for. They don’t want to have to

drive to larger cities to buy the merchandise they need and want right now.

They also want the lower prices that they pay in the larger cities. We’ve got

to rework our plan and start building bigger stores if we want to satisfy our

customers.”

The man needed to change and grow along with his dream to get where he

wanted to go, and he asked for help.

“Mr. Ben Franklin Company,” Sam said, “please help me build larger

stores in my small towns. I know it’s not been done before, but my people are

asking for more assortments and lower prices. I’ve got an idea for them. Will

you work with me and franchise these larger stores? Will you sell the

merchandise to me at a lower price since I need to reduce the prices to my

customers? You’ll do okay, too, because I’ll be buying a lot more

merchandise from you.”

“It will never work,” they said. “We can’t do that. There are not enough