SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Strategy and Growth
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of same-store sales, the need to focus on the core business, and Wal-Mart's strategic approach to new store and club openings.
KEYWORDS: Same-store sales, Core business, Real estate strategy, Retail growth, Wal-Mart
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

aren’t growing in existing stores, it may mean that there’s a problem with

your “product.” Increase in same-store sales is the strongest indicator of the

overall health of a retail organization. It means your merchandise and

marketing strategies are still relevant. It signals that you are continuing to

satisfy your customers, adding new customers, and improving your

productivity at the store level. Granted, this is much simpler in growing

markets, and much harder in stagnant markets. But the bottom line is, if you

are unable to get increases in your existing base of stores every year, it will

ultimately cause a decline in overall sales and there will be major erosion in

the foundation of your business.

Strategy is about stretching limited resources to fit ambitious aspirations.

—C. K. Prahalad

A leader must keep his or her eye on the core customers and core business.

I have seen many executives focus so much on new growth that they let the

core business slip away. Many companies report annual sales increases on the

basis of adding new stores, which allows them to hide serious flaws in their

business model. By all means, an overall retail growth strategy means adding

new stores, but if there’s a problem with existing outlets, the astute leader

will roll up his or her sleeves and start fixing things!

We recorded and analyzed same-store sales increases every single week at

Wal-Mart. Those were the first numbers we looked at every Saturday

morning. At the first sign of weakness, we jumped to find out what might be

the problem. We didn’t study the numbers for a long period of time, then

establish task forces to determine possible strategies—we took corrective

action immediately. In all the time I was with Wal-Mart, there never was a

year when aggregate same-store sales declined.

New Stores and Clubs

The real estate department maintained a rolling five-year development plan

based on target numbers and locations that it established in concert with

senior leadership each year. Regional real estate managers were responsible

for developing future potential sites in their market areas based on

demographics and cost-effectiveness. The overall plan was to grow out from

a current store base and then fill in any major gaps between stores. As soon

as we developed a base of stores on the fringe of a territory, we built a new

distribution center.

Our ultimate real estate strategy was to saturate a state and put stores and

distribution centers as close to our customers as possible. One early tactic

was to locate in a county-seat town as often as possible. We never wanted to

jump to new markets too far away from our existing base of stores and extend

our logistics line too far. Bentonville, Arkansas, was actually Wal-Mart’s

center point, and we grew out from there in all directions.

Decisions are made in a moment, but growth comes from daily discipline.

—John C. Maxwell

Another important part of our strategy was to find the best possible site in

a community for the best possible price. This wasn’t necessarily easy—once

a landowner or real estate broker heard Wal-Mart was looking at a parcel, the

prices immediately spiked up. This was particularly true as we became larger

and more well known.

It was important to have good visibility, enough room for adequate

parking, and easy access for our customers. But there were times we had to

turn down good locations because the price was too high, and we weren’t

willing to jeopardize everyday low prices because we paid too much for the

land. We learned that lesson well with our first two Hypermarts. We

overspent on both land and buildings and had to struggle to reach a profit.

Relocating, Expanding, and Remodeling Stores

We were always aggressive in relocating, expanding, and remodeling our

existing stores. In many cases we simply outgrew our stores or clubs. Strong

and continued same-store sales increases made it difficult to serve our

customers as well as we should in certain locations—and the numbers

gradually began to show that. If we could expand on the property we were

already on, we did. If we didn’t have enough room,we relocated the store or

club, usually as close as we could to the existing store. I remember expanding

a number of stores after being open for as short as a year-and-a-half or two

years. The determining factor in deciding to relocate or expand was always

whether we were serving the customers properly. When we were once again

able to serve the customers better, sales went up accordingly.

Change is inevitable, growth is intentional.

—Anonymous

Serving customers well involves maintaining a professional appearance,

and after a store has been open for a number of years, it begins to look

“shopworn.” If a particular location didn’t warrant an expansion, we went in

and remodeled the store, putting in new fixtures, replacing outdated cash

registers with the latest equipment—anything to freshen up the store.

Whenever we did that, we experienced an almost automatic increase in sales

and received great comments from our customers.

We were far more aggressive than the competition on remodeling and

expanding our stores, in part because we had to be. Growing sales meant

more customer traffic, which meant more wear and tear on the facility, which

meant more frequent remodeling and expansion, which meant more sales . . .

Whether we relocated, expanded, or remodeled a store, we never closed it for

even one day. If we weren’t going to let a fire shut down a store in Wabash,

Indiana, for even a single week, we weren’t going to let a remodel close us

for even one day! We felt we owed it to our customers to remain open, even

if the store was torn up and we were moving merchandise around. We did

most of the work at night with a crew of associates from other stores and

headed up by our Store Planning department.