SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Operational Oversight and Improvement
SUMMARY: The text describes Wal-Mart's centralized structure and hands-on leadership approach, with senior executives regularly visiting stores to observe operations, gather customer and employee feedback, and make immediate improvements.
KEYWORDS: store visits, operational oversight, customer feedback, employee engagement, continuous improvement
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

competitors’ stores, This centralized structure provided experienced eyes

examining the entire retail landscape every single day. We observed what we

were doing well, what we were doing poorly, and what others were doing

better than we were. Management made improvements store by store on all of

these trips.

Senior Leaders in the Field

In addition to the constant contact of the district managers and regional

vice presidents, Sam was personally in numerous Wal-Mart stores every

week. He went into the office around 4:00 or 5:00 AM to do some paperwork

and reply to letters he had received. He then headed for the airport and flew

out to get a firsthand look at how the stores were performing and looked, how

the associates were doing, and how we were serving our customers. He also

provided a lot of inspiration to the associates in the stores, and they loved

him. He thanked them for the way their stores looked and for their efforts,

and he reminded them of how important it was to satisfy the customers.

Sam also insisted that every senior officer travel to several Wal-Mart stores

at least one day every week. We flew out early in the morning on one of the

company planes to both large and small markets, visiting up to five or six

stores in a day. At the end of a long and productive day, we either flew home

that night or stayed the course for a second or third day of visits. We all

headed in different directions so we could get senior leadership into as many

stores as possible. We checked the merchandise, checked the condition of the

store, visited with as many associates as we could, visited with the customers,

shared our detailed observations with the store management team, usually

stopped at a competitor’s store to see what we could learn from them, then

went to the airport to fly to the next store.

While in each store,we asked the customers what they liked and what they

didn’t like about our store. You know what? They were very honest with us.

We also asked our associates how things were going in the store and how the

in-store management team was treating them. Sometimes they were reluctant

to say anything, but most of the time they called it like it was. We always

attempted to be accessible to anyone who wanted to visit with us, however, it

was impossible to help people with problems if they weren’t willing to come

forward and share their concerns.

If you see a snake, just kill it. Don’t appoint a committee on snakes.

—H. Ross Perot

If the store was having problems, that was usually very apparent, and

frequently we could provide assistance while we were there. If a store was

really operating badly, we might stay there all day and not visit any other

stores. As I look back on it now, those were special times for me. I loved

visiting with the associates—they’re great people! When traveling today,

even though I have retired from the company, I still stop by Wal-Marts just to

speak with the associates.

There is no question in my mind that these visits were powerful in keeping

the small-company feeling alive no matter how large we became. By visiting

our stores religiously, we were able to share and reinforce our values and

culture and to communicate to our associates how valuable they were to our

continued success and how critical it was to take extremely good care of our

customers. We worked hard to make sure our executive team was accessible.

We were ordinary people, and we genuinely cared about them as individuals.

A person who is successful has simply formed the habit of doing things that unsuccessful people will

not do.

—Anonymous

The Wal-Mart aviation department really made the centralized structure

work by getting the regional vice presidents, senior leaders, and other home

office associates out to the field on a timely basis. Pilots usually dropped us

off at small airports that were very near our stores, enabling us to spend a

maximum amount of time making our rounds. We also needed a good way to

get our buyers out to the field. They, too, traveled whenever possible to talk

with department managers and customers about their lines of merchandise, to

see how they were displayed and how well they were selling. We called this

“Eat what you cook.”We wanted our buyers to experience the same thing as

their customers in the store environment. The aviation department made all of

this possible.

Think about the travel and time expense of getting our management team

into the field. You may be wondering how we could afford such a

commitment of resources. We came to understand we could not afford any

less commitment than our best!

Sam understood and often quoted a very simple management principle:

“Retail is detail.”

Some detail-oriented management meetings were another way we stayed in

touch with how the company was operating.

The Friday Management Meeting

Every Friday morning, the regional vice presidents attended a management

meeting that included all company officers and division heads. During this

time, leadership members discussed all aspects of that week’s business. They

brought to the table any problems they observed during the week in any area

of the business; they made decisions and set plans. Anyone in the meeting

could share—and was expected to share—any pertinent information about his

or her area of the business. To some leaders this might seem a little

intimidating and too time consuming, but in Wal-Mart, this was a vital way

for us to stay on top of execution.

The discussion was very candid and open. No holds were barred, and we

got to the heart of an issue. Occasionally people’s feelings got hurt. We tried

not to get personal, but sometimes people crossed lines—and made

appropriate apologies! We tried to put all issues on the table, realizing if we