SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Development and Engagement
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of providing clear feedback, growth opportunities, and a sense of purpose to motivate and engage employees.
KEYWORDS: employee feedback, career advancement, employee satisfaction, worker dignity, Walmart culture
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

People want to know where they stand, if you are pleased with their performance. No associates want to be surprised when their year-end

evaluations do come around. If they are surprised, then the leader has not done his or her job throughout the year. And sadly, those individuals have not had a chance to improve their performance during the year, and everyone suffers—including the company.

How can I get ahead? How can I be promoted? How can I take on more responsibility? How can I grow? How can I be challenged further? It is true that some people don’t want more responsibility. They don’t want another job—they are happy just where they are—but they still want to get ahead. We have some people who are cashiers, for example, and that is all they want to be, but they still want to know how they can become a senior cashier, or how they can do their job better, or how can they make more money—all legitimate ways of getting ahead. They don’t want to run the company or the store or the department, but they do want to know how they can make progress, even if only for their own satisfaction.

Where can I get justice? Where do I go when things are going badly, when I think I am being treated poorly, when I think something has been done unfairly? This is an incredibly important question—and one that most companies do not even address. I think it is so important that I address it in detail in a section to come entitled “The Door Is Always Open.”

Is what I am doing important? All associates want to know that they are important and that they are doing something significant. They want to know that they are contributing to something bigger than themselves. They want to know that they have more than a job, that they have a place on a winning team, and that their efforts are meaningful. One way that happens at Wal- Mart is with the amount of attention given to the customer-as-boss concept. Every associate knows how significant Wal-Mart feels it is to enhance the lifestyle of everyday people through low prices—and great customer service.

All workers ask those five questions, and the answers are vital to how they function on the job. You and I have asked all five of those questions, too, sometimes several at the same time. They form the basic framework for the dignity of a worker, and it seems to me that if you can preanswer these questions for your people on a continuing basis, you can then motivate them to perform in an above-average way.

Little Things Mean a Lot

One of our goals in the early days at Wal-Mart was to unleash the potential in all of our associates. We recognized that we didn’t have all of the good ideas in the home office, so the challenge was to find a way to get associates on the front lines involved in company improvements. It wasn’t one or two big things but rather many, many little things all combined together to demonstrate our intentions.

As previously mentioned, we called everyone “associates.” This idea was born during Sam’s brief stint with J. C. Penney prior to his military service. Back then, Penney was the only company known to call its people “associates.” Many other companies have adopted that term, and now it doesn’t sound quite as special. The key, of course, is not what you call your people but how you treat them. And calling our associates by that name was a constant reminder of how we were to treat them.

One day Sam came back from a trip to San Antonio, where he had seen the ID badges on the employees of a supermarket chain called Randall’s that showed only their first names. He thought it was a great idea. In the next few months, we changed all our badges to show only first names, a much more personal way to refer to all of our people, whether they were management or hourly associates. That was when Sam asked all associates to begin calling him by his first name. Some individuals, out of respect for him, simply could not bring themselves to call him just “Sam.” So for some he was known as “Mr. Sam.”

There is nothing magical about it—if your employees are enjoying their jobs, if they are passionate about their work, it shows. If employees are having fun, excited about coming to work, happy to be there, the company is going to have a tremendous competitive advantage.

—Matt Weinstein

A number of years ago, one member of our board of directors suggested that since we placed such a high priority on the value of our people,we should rename our personnel department our “people division.” It didn’t take very long before that became a reality. I feel that the symbols used in a business can be a factor for change if there is genuine meaning behind them. We never again referred to our human resources department; it was always the People

Division. This was a small point, but relationships are made up of many small acts, and the truth is that all of us really are in the people business.

Personal Assistance for Associates

We care about our associates and want them to know that. And we recognize that our associates, like all people, have personal problems from time to time. We saw how personal crises impacted their attitudes, their relationships with colleagues and customers, and their performances on the job. Sam believed that healthy families were a key to an associate’s performance.

Sam Walton on Wal-Mart Associates

If you want a successful business, your people must feel that you are working for them—not that they are working for you.

Share profits with all your associates, and treat them as partners. In turn, they will treat you as a partner.