SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Operations Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses Walmart's management practices, including weekly meetings to stay informed on business operations and monthly profit-and-loss reviews.
KEYWORDS: retail management, operations, meetings, profit-and-loss, execution
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Think about the travel and time expense of getting our management team into the field. You may be wondering how we could afford such a commitment of resources. We came to understand we could not afford any less commitment than our best!

Sam understood and often quoted a very simple management principle: “Retail is detail.”

Some detail-oriented management meetings were another way we stayed in touch with how the company was operating.

The Friday Management Meeting

Every Friday morning, the regional vice presidents attended a management meeting that included all company officers and division heads. During this

time, leadership members discussed all aspects of that week’s business. They brought to the table any problems they observed during the week in any area of the business; they made decisions and set plans. Anyone in the meeting could share—and was expected to share—any pertinent information about his or her area of the business. To some leaders this might seem a little intimidating and too time consuming, but in Wal-Mart, this was a vital way for us to stay on top of execution.

The discussion was very candid and open. No holds were barred, and we got to the heart of an issue. Occasionally people’s feelings got hurt. We tried not to get personal, but sometimes people crossed lines—and made appropriate apologies! We tried to put all issues on the table, realizing if we didn’t thoroughly understand a problem, we would never be able to solve it. We expected the appropriate people to develop solutions and report back to the group by the next meeting, if not sooner. This meeting was crucial in helping senior leaders and all division heads stay close to every function of the business and provided the opportunity to ask questions about anything that wasn’t perfectly clear. It was also an ongoing challenge to the quality of our execution.

Hard work means prosperity; only fools idle away their time.

—Proverbs 12:11 NLT

Merchandise and Operations Meeting

At noon, the regional vice presidents then met with the buyers and together discussed what they had just seen in the stores and clubs from a merchandise standpoint that week. With the regional VPs fresh from the Friday management meeting, they could bring the entire buying division in touch with what was going on in the field and had the opportunity to share merchandising issues with the field operations. Senior leaders frequently attended and participated in this meeting as well. These meetings were not always fun—many debated differences of opinion, sometimes with strong feelings. The purpose of these meetings was not only to share information but also to solve problems, resolve differences of opinion, agree on solutions, and then go out and make it happen.

Profit-and-Loss Review

Once a month, we held a profit-and-loss review meeting within the regular Friday morning meeting. We examined the P&L in detail—and as you already anticipated, no holds were barred. Everyone had to come prepared.

We reviewed even small items such as postage or phone charges, and we gave each item close scrutiny. All leaders were expected to be able to answer questions about any of their departments’ numbers that were not on budget. This kind of accountability forced everyone to analyze his or her numbers very carefully and take corrective action immediately. Constant monitoring of expenses at all levels helped to keep our costs in line and kept us from having any big quarterly or year-end surprises to report to stockholders. Everyone was involved in expense control all the time.

Informal Feedback

If you want to be an effective leader, you need to cultivate one-on-one feedback from trusted individuals throughout your organization, touching all the different levels. Not people who will tell you what you want to hear, but what you need to hear.

Success, real success, in any endeavor demands more from an individual than most people are willing to offer—not more than they are capable of offering.

—James Roche

Over time, I developed relationships with a number of store managers, district managers, distribution managers, regional vice presidents, and longtime hourly associates whose opinions I respected. I knew I could trust them to tell me exactly what they thought. I frequently called them and found out how they felt things were going, how the associates’ morale was, and what their biggest concerns were. This was a great way for me to stay in touch and keep my finger on the pulse of the company. There were times when I didn’t like what I heard, but the input was frequently helpful in determining action that we needed to take.

I also called to ask their opinions if we were planning a major change in a program. These associates were ones who really loved the company and

therefore didn’t just tell me what they thought I wanted to hear. Instead, they thought about it and gave me great feedback on exactly what they thought the impact would be on associates, customers, and the overall company.

I believe that these informal relationships can be valuable to senior leaders as long as they use the information they receive in a confidential way. It is also a great encouragement to these associates to know that their opinions are important to you, and that they can make a significant difference in the company. This is another way to help your people understand that leadership cares about them.

Associate Access to Senior Leadership

The doors to the executive offices were always open unless we had a private meeting with someone. The physically open door was a symbol: senior leadership was accessible to our associates. Associates always knew they could walk into our offices anytime they wanted to and share with us an idea that they had come up with or something that concerned them. We always listened to our associates.