SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Marketing Strategy
SUMMARY: This text discusses Wal-Mart's unique marketing approach, including advertising channels, pricing strategy, and cost-saving measures to maintain low everyday prices.
KEYWORDS: Retail marketing, Pricing strategy, Advertising channels, Everyday low pricing, Cost management
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

And then there’s promotion. How will your products and services—how will you—be advertised? Newspapers, magazines, radio, TV, the Internet,word of mouth, home parties, door-to-door?

One last element that will clearly impact sales of the product is the pricing strategy you will employ. Obviously, a key factor in that decision is the cost to produce and deliver the product. The ultimate goal of Wal-Mart is to reduce the cost on a continuing basis in order to provide value to the customer and a fair return to the company.

Finally, taking the previous four components of marketing into account, the overall company message must be clear and easily understood. It must succinctly convey the message you want your audience to hear. It must be believable and truthful, as well as compelling, without overstating your case. Don’t promise something you can’t deliver.

Marketing must be unique and different, dramatic, or even humorous in order to attract attention. If the marketing program is carefully and deliberately crafted, it can give any organization a powerful competitive advantage and add significantly to sales.

Unique and Compelling Wal-Mart Themes

The Wal-Mart marketing strategy has been unique among retailers. The product, as I have explained, is a store designed to satisfy customers by offering the everyday household needs of families in a friendly and fun

atmosphere; it is a wide assortment of merchandise, with an emphasis on brand-name products; it is friendliness of the associates; and it is everyday low pricing. (Always.)

In the early years,Wal-Mart advertised, as did most of the retail industry, primarily in local newspapers and in monthly circulars. Many of the items selected were shown at reduced prices. Over time, it became apparent that reducing prices on several hundred selected items wasn’t completely consistent with—or nearly as effective as—everyday low prices, so we decided to change that element of our advertising. Television became the primary medium for sharing who we were, and we changed the monthly circular to feature items at their everyday low prices, thereby reinforcing our pricing strategy. We designed the television spots to show Wal-Mart as a friendly place to shop, where you could find the merchandise you needed every day for your home and family; as a place where you could depend on prices being low every day and even being consistently rolled back; as a place where you could bump into your neighbors and leave satisfied with the quality and price of your purchases.

Another strategic element in Wal-Mart promotion and advertising plans was that we kept costs down and passed the savings on to the customers. We consistently spent at least 2 percent less than our major competitors in our marketing budget. In the retailing business, this is a tremendous cost advantage to have over your competition and was another way that we could maintain lower prices every day. We didn’t need to draw customers into our stores with circulars showing items at special prices; our image of everyday low prices already did that. In addition to the reduced cost of advertising itself, we had further savings at the store level by not having to price and reprice the merchandise with every circular. We were always looking for ways to reduce our costs and pass the savings on to the customer.

In the midnineties, another ingenious idea came from our marketing department and advertising agencies. Why don’t we use our own associates instead of professional models in our TV ads and monthly circulars? We tried it. Our associates did a great job, and it was a huge success. The associates who appeared in TV spots and circulars became celebrities in their communities, and Wal-Mart associates from all over the country wanted to be

in the commercials.

Our customers noticed the change and loved it. Our marketing department responded once again and came up with the idea of using our customers as models in our ads as well. This was another huge success that made customers associate Wal-Mart as a “people company. ”

We were also able to tell our customers about our commitment to the environment, about our many Good Works projects, and about our involvement in community activities. We let them know that Wal-Mart is a company for families, and your neighbors are the ones who will be serving you when you come into your local Wal-Mart store. Maybe most importantly, how we present Wal-Mart in our advertising is what customers actually find when they come into our stores. Our marketing has always painted an accurate picture of who we really are and what you can expect when you shop with us.

When Disaster Strikes Your Customers

On May 30, 1982, a tornado devastated Marion, Illinois. It destroyed scores of homes and many businesses. The Wal-Mart store was hit hard as well—the tornado ripped off the back one-third of the building. The people in town were in great need of supplies, not only to live on, but also to clean up the remnants of the devastation. Sam and Jack Shewmaker, the president and COO for Wal-Mart at that time, got in Sam’s plane and flew up to assess the situation. When they saw that the town was nearly destroyed and the people had been thrown into dire straits, they first decided to build a temporary wall right where the tornado had cut off the back of our building. They next brought in teams of associates from other Wal-Marts to clean up the store, ordered new merchandise, and reopened within days. They continued to operate the store while the reconstruction of the rear of the building was in process.

The Wal-Mart Way of Enhancing Quality of Life

A UBS Warburg study found that Wal-Mart grocery prices are 17 to 20 percent lower than other supermarkets, which has the greatest benefit for

low-income families.

According to the New England Consulting Group, Wal-Mart saved consumers $20 billion last year—enough to put a $100 bill in the hands of every adult in America.