SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Growth Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses Wal-Mart's growth strategy, focusing on same-store sales, new store and club openings, and acquisitions to continuously expand the business.
KEYWORDS: same-store sales, new store expansion, retail growth strategy, Wal-Mart, competitive advantage
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

competitors who were one thousand times our size, because they didn’t have an adequate growth strategy—they had lost their momentum and were heading in the wrong direction!

Sam believed in momentum. We continually plowed the lion’s share of our profits straight back into the business.

The Wal-Mart growth strategy had six basic components:

Increase same-store and same-club sales each year.

Add new stores and clubs.

Relocate, expand, and remodel stores and clubs.

Acquire U.S. competitors.

Acquire international chains.

Develop new retail concepts.

Same-Store Sales

Sales increases in stores that have been open at least one year are the most important component in any company’s growth plan. Why? Because if you aren’t growing in existing stores, it may mean that there’s a problem with your “product.” Increase in same-store sales is the strongest indicator of the overall health of a retail organization. It means your merchandise and marketing strategies are still relevant. It signals that you are continuing to satisfy your customers, adding new customers, and improving your productivity at the store level. Granted, this is much simpler in growing markets, and much harder in stagnant markets. But the bottom line is, if you are unable to get increases in your existing base of stores every year, it will ultimately cause a decline in overall sales and there will be major erosion in the foundation of your business.

Strategy is about stretching limited resources to fit ambitious aspirations.

—C. K. Prahalad

A leader must keep his or her eye on the core customers and core business.

I have seen many executives focus so much on new growth that they let the core business slip away. Many companies report annual sales increases on the basis of adding new stores, which allows them to hide serious flaws in their business model. By all means, an overall retail growth strategy means adding new stores, but if there’s a problem with existing outlets, the astute leader will roll up his or her sleeves and start fixing things!

We recorded and analyzed same-store sales increases every single week at Wal-Mart. Those were the first numbers we looked at every Saturday morning. At the first sign of weakness, we jumped to find out what might be the problem. We didn’t study the numbers for a long period of time, then establish task forces to determine possible strategies—we took corrective action immediately. In all the time I was with Wal-Mart, there never was a year when aggregate same-store sales declined.

New Stores and Clubs

The real estate department maintained a rolling five-year development plan based on target numbers and locations that it established in concert with senior leadership each year. Regional real estate managers were responsible for developing future potential sites in their market areas based on demographics and cost-effectiveness. The overall plan was to grow out from a current store base and then fill in any major gaps between stores. As soon as we developed a base of stores on the fringe of a territory, we built a new distribution center.

Our ultimate real estate strategy was to saturate a state and put stores and distribution centers as close to our customers as possible. One early tactic was to locate in a county-seat town as often as possible. We never wanted to jump to new markets too far away from our existing base of stores and extend our logistics line too far. Bentonville, Arkansas, was actually Wal-Mart’s center point, and we grew out from there in all directions.

Decisions are made in a moment, but growth comes from daily discipline.

—John C. Maxwell

Another important part of our strategy was to find the best possible site in

a community for the best possible price. This wasn’t necessarily easy—once a landowner or real estate broker heard Wal-Mart was looking at a parcel, the prices immediately spiked up. This was particularly true as we became larger and more well known.

It was important to have good visibility, enough room for adequate parking, and easy access for our customers. But there were times we had to turn down good locations because the price was too high, and we weren’t willing to jeopardize everyday low prices because we paid too much for the land. We learned that lesson well with our first two Hypermarts. We overspent on both land and buildings and had to struggle to reach a profit.

Relocating, Expanding, and Remodeling Stores

We were always aggressive in relocating, expanding, and remodeling our existing stores. In many cases we simply outgrew our stores or clubs. Strong and continued same-store sales increases made it difficult to serve our customers as well as we should in certain locations—and the numbers gradually began to show that. If we could expand on the property we were already on, we did. If we didn’t have enough room,we relocated the store or club, usually as close as we could to the existing store. I remember expanding a number of stores after being open for as short as a year-and-a-half or two years. The determining factor in deciding to relocate or expand was always whether we were serving the customers properly. When we were once again able to serve the customers better, sales went up accordingly.

Change is inevitable, growth is intentional.

—Anonymous

Serving customers well involves maintaining a professional appearance, and after a store has been open for a number of years, it begins to look “shopworn.” If a particular location didn’t warrant an expansion, we went in and remodeled the store, putting in new fixtures, replacing outdated cash registers with the latest equipment—anything to freshen up the store.

Whenever we did that, we experienced an almost automatic increase in sales and received great comments from our customers.