SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Customer Service and Pricing Strategy
SUMMARY: Walmart's customer-centric approach, including hassle-free returns, creating an exciting in-store experience, and establishing everyday low prices to reduce the cost of living for customers.
KEYWORDS: customer service, pricing strategy, everyday low prices, cost reduction, in-store experience
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

It means accepting merchandise back if the customer is not satisfied. If something doesn’t fit, is the wrong color, or doesn’t work, bring it back

without a hassle—just have your sales receipt. We have tried to eliminate the hassle and make it easy. (Unfortunately, however, some customers try to take advantage of our liberal returns policy, and this has caused the company to tighten up on returns so that our honest customers are not penalized by increased prices.)

It means creating an atmosphere of excitement in every store. Our associates love doing fun things like dressing up in costumes for holidays, decorating their stores for the different seasons, displaying balloons and signs, having style shows, or having local organizations do bake sales and other fund-raisers out front. These are high energy activities that lift the spirits of the customers and associates alike and simultaneously create a festive atmosphere in the stores. They make Wal-Mart a fun place to shop. Let me ask you: Do your customers enjoy doing business with you?

Prices Aren’t Everything, but They Come Close

Wal-Mart has established a great reputation for low prices. The real key is everyday low prices—not just advertised low prices on a few selected items for a week or weekend. I remember in past years going to seminars and conferences with other retailers and discussing our respective marketing strategies. They talked about their weekly or biweekly advertising circulars and how those were their bread-and-butter method for drawing customers into their stores. Then they would politely acknowledge our idea of everyday low prices as a strategy for attracting customers but never sounded too impressed.

What our competitors didn’t realize was that little by little, we were drawing their customers away from them, because customers were finding that on a day-in and day-out basis, they were paying less for their purchases at Wal-Mart and were significantly reducing their cost of living. This seriously undermined classic retail strategies of the loss leader and bait and switch with customers, who were getting a better value from everyday low prices. No matter what business you are in, value is what your customers are looking for.

You can’t maintain low prices without low costs, so Wal-Mart has always

worked closely with suppliers to drive costs out of the system (I’ll describe this more fully in chapter 10, “Creating Supplier Relations”). When we cut costs, we pass this savings on to the customer and have what we call price “rollbacks.” We advertise rollbacks to draw the attention of the customer to the fact that we have reduced the price of an item or a category. This has been a tremendous reinforcement to our everyday low-price image and has further reduced the cost of living of our customers.

To completely understand this strong emphasis on setting the lowest prices possible on the items in our stores, you need to understand that we really do believe in Sam’s vision of improving the lifestyle of everyday Americans— and people throughout the world. We came to view ourselves as the “agent” of the customers. As their agent, we believed that it was our job to buy wisely for our customers, not just sell to them. This is a completely different approach from what is common in other organizations. Though simple, it is revolutionary, and many leaders in the retail industry still do not understand it. Our role as the customers’ agent explains why we sometimes have an item that our closest competitor prices at $19.95, which we price for just $14.86. I have been asked many, many times why we don’t raise the price to, say, $16 or $17.95. We would still be pricing lower than the competition but increase our margins and make more money. Surely the market would bear the extra buck or two. As hard as it is for many to understand, we actually try to sell our merchandise as low as we can, not as high as we can. Why? We are the agent for the customer. And by the way, our customers know what we are trying to do. They have come to recognize that “Everyday low prices” is more than a slogan.

World-class leaders know that customer loyalty, employee commitment, and operating efficiency are all essential elements of business success.Therefore, they refuse to trade off one for another.

—George Labovitz

The Marketing of Wal-Mart

A carefully thought-out marketing strategy is a key element in the success of any organization. Marketing is not to be confused with advertising.

Advertising is only one part of marketing, albeit an important part. But marketing is the total face you show to your existing and potential customers

—your product, your place of purchase, your promotion, and your pricing. What is it you really want customers and potential customers to think about when they hear your name? What image do you want to appear in their minds at the thought of you?

Marketing begins with the product itself. What does it look like? How does it operate, and who are the potential users? What makes it unique or different? How is it packaged? Why would someone want to buy it?

The next step in marketing involves getting the product to the customers— that is, your place (or point) of purchase. Are you brick-and-mortar? Internet? Both? What channels will you use to distribute your product?

And then there’s promotion. How will your products and services—how will you—be advertised? Newspapers, magazines, radio, TV, the Internet,word of mouth, home parties, door-to-door?

One last element that will clearly impact sales of the product is the pricing strategy you will employ. Obviously, a key factor in that decision is the cost to produce and deliver the product. The ultimate goal of Wal-Mart is to reduce the cost on a continuing basis in order to provide value to the customer and a fair return to the company.