SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Productivity
SUMMARY: The article discusses how Wal-Mart's innovative practices, such as large-scale formats, everyday low prices, and efficient store management, have driven a significant increase in retail productivity.
KEYWORDS: Wal-Mart, Retail Productivity, Managerial Innovations, Efficiency, Everyday Low Prices
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Following are excerpts from an article by Bradford C. Johnson, a consultant with the business research group,McKinsey Company.

Retail may be the last place you would expect to find a productivity miracle.Yet retail productivity growth, as measured by real value added per hour, jumped from 2 percent (1987–95) to 6.3 percent (1995–99), explaining nearly one quarter of the economy-wide acceleration in productivity. More than half of the productivity acceleration in the retailing    of general merchandise can be explained by only two syllables: Wal-Mart. A variety of Wal- Mart innovations, both large and small, are now industry standards. Wal-Mart created the large-scale, or “big-box,” format; “everyday low prices”; electronic data interchange (EDI) with suppliers; and the strategy of expanding around central distribution centers. These innovations allowed the company to pass its saving on to customers.The Wal-Mart story is a clear refutation of new-economy hype. At least half of Wal-Mart’s productivity edge stems  from managerial innovations that improve the efficiency of stores and have nothing to do    with IT [information technologies]; employees who have been cross-trained, for instance,    can function effectively in more than one department at a time. Better training of cashiers    and monitoring of utilization can increase productivity rates at checkout counters by 10 to 20 percent. Competitors began to adopt Wal-Mart’s innovations in earnest in the mid-1990s.

Wal-Mart still has a large productivity edge over its competitors and continues to raise the bar.2

There are numerous examples of the way we kept costs down on a day-to- day basis. We chose not spend a lot of money on fancy offices and found that they worked just as well as the finest offices in the country. Our home office is very modest. In fact, a number of years ago, a stock analyst referred to our offices as looking like an “early bus station.”A major portion of the office space is converted warehouse space. It is an open office layout with small modular offices outfitted with very plain but functional office furniture.

Executive offices are also very small, but functional. We never had to explain to store associates who visited the home office why we had such elaborate

offices while we were asking them to keep costs down in the stores and clubs. We spent our dollars where they counted most: in the stores and clubs and for our customers.

People of mediocre ability sometimes achieve outstanding success because they don’t know when to quit. Most men succeed because they are determined to.

—George Herbert Allen

Some representatives from McDonald’s corporate office showed me a video many years ago. They had interspersed excerpts of speeches given by Sam Walton and Ray Kroc, the legendary geniuses responsible for the development of their fine companies. They did it to demonstrate how similar Sam and Ray were in their approaches to business. Mr. Kroc said in this speech to his people, “We should never forget how we did it when we were poor.”When I heard that, it hit me how important it is to remember how we got where we are and to never forget what it took. One of the important reasons that Wal-Mart achieved what it did was by controlling costs.

Two to a Room

For newcomers to the Wal-Mart management team, perhaps the first cultural hurdle is embracing our travel policy. When the business requires travel, each associate shares a motel room with another Wal-Mart manager of the same gender. Oh, and don’t plan on staying at the Four Seasons; it’s more likely to be the La Quinta Inn or Motel 6. They have nice, clean rooms and are moderately priced.

It is important to have good, healthy meals while you travel, but we didn’t feel that extravagant meals in five-star restaurants or hotels was a good return on investment. If you choose to order alcoholic beverages after work, you do so at your expense. At the same time, you can’t have suppliers pay for your meals; always go Dutch treat.

If you fly commercial airlines, you book your ticket in advance to get the maximum discount. If an emergency comes up and you must book a ticket less than seven days before departure, an executive vice president has to approve the fare. No first-class seats, only coach. Frequent-flyer miles? They stay with the company and help defray the cost of future business trips. All

those cost savings get plowed into price savings for our customers, and that’s what makes it all worthwhile.

Two to a room, though, has a more important place in Wal-Mart culture than just cutting costs. In many respects two to a room is a blending of several important elements in our culture. The emphasis on costs is obvious. Probably less obvious is the one-on-one communication opportunities it provides. It was a very valuable way for associates, even officers, to share ideas, talk about the business, and learn from each other. As Sam Dunn, the vice president and CFO of Sam’s Club, recently shared with me: