SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and Values
SUMMARY: The text discusses how Walmart's foundational beliefs and values, such as respect, customer satisfaction, and continuous improvement, are the driving force behind the company's success.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, corporate values, customer-centric, continuous improvement
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

—Mahatma Gandhi

After a while, I began to realize that these strategies weren’t the bottom-

line driving force behind our success. First of all, I had to recognize that we

certainly weren’t the only company with good business practices. And over

time, I had to acknowledge that strategies, to be effective, had to be fine-

tuned constantly. But there was something much more fundamental that

didn’t change: the foundational beliefs of the company. It became very

apparent to me that everything we did grew out of what we believed, and

what we believed was a direct result of our values.

Values and beliefs go hand in hand and together determine how you think

and act—and whether you will succeed and reach your full potential as a

company. I have experienced firsthand that this is the case with Wal-Mart!

If you were to stop any associate in Wal-Mart and ask him or her what our

three basic beliefs are, I am sure you would hear the following in their own

words:

• We treat everyone with respect and dignity,

• We are in business to satisfy our customers, and

• We strive for excellence in all that we do.

Now, when I speak or am interviewed about the secrets of Wal-Mart’s

success, I begin with our beliefs. I am amazed at how many times those who

aren’t part of the Wal-Mart family challenge this, even minimizing the

importance of our beliefs. I have had many people suggest that all this talk

about beliefs sounds more like a simple bromide: Mom, apple pie, and

baseball. Our beliefs are simple—no question about that—but Wal-Mart

people understand what they mean and work hard at making them a reality

every day.

A Culture of Respect

Treating everyone with respect and dignity means everyone. We start with

our associates. We don’t call them “employees”; they are associates in the

true sense of the word, and there is no question in my mind that our people

have made the difference in our success. We work hard to provide an

environment where everyone can contribute and be successful. We treat

people as more than pairs of hands to do jobs: we treat them as sources of

new ideas. As Sam often said, most of the new things we do in the company

come from our people.

A Culture of Customer Satisfaction

As I will address more fully in the next chapter, we treat our customers as

the truly important people they are. We know that they’re the real “boss.” We

believe that our goal is to satisfy our customers every time they are in our

stores or clubs. We work hard to make every customer feel welcome, to make

him or her feel like family. Our focus on the customer drives so much of

what we do. As an example, our everyday low-price strategy did not grow out

of a new, hot marketing trend. It developed out of our core belief that we

exist to satisfy the customer. We continue to do everything in our power to

add value to what the customer gets when he or she comes into a Wal-Mart

store or a Sam’s Club.

A Culture of Continuous Improvement

Striving for excellence means never being satisfied—always doing things

to keep improving, even if it means changing everything we do. It means we

never feel that we have arrived. We don’t believe our press clippings. We

don’t get complacent and pat ourselves on the backs. We talk about what we

could have done better. We believe that we can achieve extraordinary results

when we strive for excellence in all we do.

Sharing the Culture

After the process of defining and developing a company’s core values and

beliefs, how do you keep these dynamics—the culture of an organization—

alive and relevant? The obvious answer is to talk about them and do so

frequently, repeating them over and over again. At Wal-Mart, we are

intentional about dispersing our culture throughout the company and

determined that our values and beliefs be on the mind of every associate.

Our Friday morning meetings for all officers and division heads and

Saturday morning meetings for all management people serve as important

times to communicate and illustrate the culture of the company to leadership.

Weekly and even daily meetings in stores and warehouses provide the

opportunity for all general managers to share with associates not only

information about operations, but also elements of the culture. Quarterly

meetings for hourly associates in the home office reiterate important aspects

of our culture. Year-beginning meetings and midyear meetings for store,

club, warehouse, transportation, and specialty division associates are

additional opportunities for sharing our beliefs. And we have taken advantage

of every single one of these opportunities to preach Wal-Mart culture.

Every company’s leadership plans regular meetings to interact with its

associates. The question for all companies, however, isn’t whether they hold

meetings. The question to ask yourself: is your culture a high enough priority

to invest time in it?

Each year Wal-Mart holds its shareholders’ meeting on the first Friday of

June. There are usually over eighteen thousand people at the meeting, which

lasts from 7:00 AM until noon. Every year, each store, club, warehouse, and

home office department (including those in all international countries) sends

at least one associate to these shareholders meetings as a representative of its

operating unit. The associates come in on Tuesday and leave after the

meeting on Friday at noon. During this time, they have meetings scheduled

with the buyers and other home office associates, where they ask questions

and share their ideas on how to improve the company. They have great

observations and suggestions, many of which are implemented throughout

the whole company. Before they go home, they are given a recap of all their

suggestions and what the company is going to do about them. When they go

back to their stores, they are given a chance to share with the associates in