SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Disaster Management and Business Continuity
SUMMARY: A fire at a Wal-Mart store in Wabash, Indiana, caused extensive damage, but the store was reopened within 7 days through a coordinated effort.
KEYWORDS: disaster response, business continuity, operational efficiency, teamwork, Wal-Mart
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

to see happen.

—Frank Lloyd Wright

A Passion for Excellence in Wabash, Indiana: A Snapshot

On Monday, October 25, 1999, a fire started in the furniture department on

the lamp counter in our Wabash, Indiana, store. The store manager was

alerted, and he attempted to extinguish the fire but was unsuccessful. He

discovered later that lamp oil on the counter fueled the fire. The fire

department arrived and was able to put out the fire fairly quickly.

Unfortunately, however, there was extensive smoke damage throughout the

store. All of the merchandise had to be removed from the store and salvaged,

all of the ceiling tile had to be replaced, and all of the store fixtures had to be

cleaned off or repainted. In essence, the entire store had to be cleared out and

cleaned up before the new merchandise could be brought in and set in place.

This was a major undertaking, almost like setting up a whole new store.

When aligned around shared values and united in a common mission, ordinary people achieve

extraordinary results.

—Ken Blanchard

The store manager called the executive vice president of operations and

said he would have to close the store for approximately twenty-one days. The

executive vice president indicated that three weeks was too long for the store

to be closed for our customers and challenged the district manager and store-

planning vice president to do it in no more than seven days. The race was on.

What did we do?

• Thursday: inventoried the store.

• Friday: shipped all the merchandise out of the store and removed all of

the ceiling tile.

• Saturday: cleaned every fixture in the store; painted the store; replaced

the carpet and ceiling tile.

• Sunday: received freight.

• Monday: set the merchandise on the counters and opened the store for

business at 4 PM

Some of the most significant achievements during the six days included:

• We built a temporary pharmacy by the front door of the store that

operated continuously throughout the crisis.

• The trucking department drove all fourteen thousand ceiling tiles from

Oklahoma to Wabash in less than forty-eight hours.

• The store operated a number of departments from tents in the parking lot

during the six-day period.

• The Specialty Division reset the photo and jewelry areas in forty-eight

hours.

• Company pilots volunteered to help receive and move the merchandise from

the back room as it was being unloaded from the company trucks.

• The salvage-company owner said that in his forty-two years in business, he

had never seen anything this big accomplished so quickly—that the week

should have been submitted for inclusion in the Guinness Book of World

Records.

• The local K-Mart brought in twenty additional trailers of merchandise into

their stores in response to the situation. They thought we would be down

for three months. The K-Mart district manager walked around in disbelief

when we opened only six days later.

• Store planners drove twelve hours through the first night to get there and

guide the setup.

• Carpet layers did a four-day job in eighteen hours.

• Marketing got the store signage to the store from Kansas City in twenty-

four hours.

• Merchandising replenished the store from ground zero in less than a week.

• Local warehouses sent a driver to do nothing but move trailers and facilitate

the loading and unloading in the store.

• Surrounding Wal-Mart stores sent three hundred associates to help reset the

store.

• The local Supercenter fed three hundred workers per day in the parking lot

for a week.

• Loss Prevention was on site providing security throughout the entire

process, twenty-four hours per day. When the store was inventoried again

after the setup, all merchandise was accounted for, and nothing was

missing.

And finally, what were the lessons we learned?

• Wal-Mart associates respond to challenges like no other team—it is part of

the company culture and gets inside people’s thinking. We were vividly

reminded that this company and team of people can do anything they put

their hearts and minds to.

• Set high goals—get the store up and running in seven days—and then get

out of great people’s way.

• You can change the way things are done. Who cares if you’re supposed to

be down for three months or even three weeks?

• Celebrate achievement. The pride the associates showed inspired everyone

in Wal-Mart, and management invited key associates in this undertaking to

a Saturday meeting to recognize them for their incredible accomplishment.

• It is possible to do the impossible.

The bar had been raised, and every store that has experienced a similar

disaster since that time has reopened in less than one week. People from all

over the world have called to find out how they did it. This is another

example of how the passion for excellence at Wal-Mart has continued to

impact industry standards and expectations worldwide.

A Passion for Excellence Means Investing in Your Business

Our Loss Prevention team developed a program that they called Restitution

and Civil Recovery, which was a way of getting money back from people

who were caught stealing from Wal-Mart. Although our restitution people

had done a great job, I knew we weren’t reaching our full potential in that

area. They had recovered about $2.5 million—about industry standard based

on our sales. The $2.5 million was important because it went right to the

company’s bottom line—ultimately saving our customers money—and was a

big increase over the previous year.

The departmental team came in and presented a budget to me for the next

year of $3.5 million. They were rightfully proud because percentage-wise, it

was a significant increase. I complimented them on their plan to significantly

increase recoveries, then asked what it would take to get to $10 million. Their

response was, “Ten million? We can’t do $10 million. That’s not realistic,

Don.”

I asked them why it wasn’t realistic. And they said, “We would have to