SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Supply Chain Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses Walmart's evolution in improving its in-house distribution system, including building warehouses, implementing mechanization, and integrating with suppliers.
KEYWORDS: supply chain, distribution, logistics, warehouse, automation
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

both the internal and the external arenas, the changes Wal-Mart implemented

have been dramatic and the impact significant. All of their logistics

developments have their own unique stories, but as they happened on parallel

tracks, they are clearly intertwined.

Improving the In-House Distribution System

While many of the steps we took to improve our efficiencies within our in-

house distribution system were cutting-edge and revolutionary, the overall

process was gradual and evolutionary:

Phase 1:We built and operated our own warehouses to receive merchandise in

order to redistribute that merchandise to our stores.

Phase 2: Next, we began to store some merchandise as a backup for our

stores to order directly from our warehouses, instead of ordering from our

suppliers.

Phase 3: Then we began to implement mechanization and automation,

eventually converting these warehouses into full-line distribution centers

complete with inventory replenishment and control systems.

Phase 4: Finally, we became a model of a vertically integrated supply chain,

complete with automatic replenishment for our stores’ inventories as well

as comanaged inventories with many of our suppliers.

Some of these things happened almost by accident as the logistics team

simply sought to fulfill the constant objective of more effectively and

efficiently serving our stores so that they could, in turn, serve our customers

better than any other retailer. We were open and willing to do whatever it

took to make that objective a living reality. Although you will clearly see the

emphasis we placed on internal efficiencies and streamlining costs in the

distribution centers, it is important to understand that there were many times

that we had to spend extra dollars in the distribution centers in order to save

time dollars at the store level. As was the case with technology, we had to

weigh tough decisions on the basis of making sure that new expenses were, in

fact, investments. That consistently was the case, and this evolution of the

internal functions of our supply chain further aided productivity gains in the

stores and helped us reduce prices to our customers even more, in keeping

with the Wal-Mart vision.

Success by Necessity

We started out by opening small warehouses and ended up reinventing the

entire supply-chain concept in the retail industry. In the early years, the

development of a warehouse system to receive, store, and ship merchandise

to our stores was basically a necessity. Our stores were in small, rural

markets, and the store managers could order only limited quantities of

thousands of items of merchandise. Suppliers had the expected problems in

shipping so many small orders to this new and growing chain in Arkansas,

and it was almost impossible to maintain a continuous flow of merchandise to

our stores.

Even if you are on the right track, you’ll get run over if you just sit there.

—Will Rogers

Transporting goods to our stores via big trucking companies was also

problematic. The trucking companies didn’t have many loads to send to our

markets, so they sent the merchandise to consolidators who then held the

merchandise in a warehouse until they had a large enough load to make it

economical to make a delivery to the small towns and businesses in a given

geographical area. In addition to costing us a premium, this system also

caused major time delays and stores ran out of merchandise frequently, which

was completely contrary to Sam’s desire to satisfy his customers.

The First Warehouse

In order to deal with this problem, Sam leased a small building in

downtown Bentonville, Arkansas, and literally became his own consolidator.

Not that we were strangers to financial risk, but initially leasing the

warehouse added cost to the operation without any assurance that there would

be payback, which created a significant amount of worry for such a small

company. Fortunately, the risk paid off in the form of greater efficiency and

greater customer satisfaction, and therefore in profits.

The next step was to stock some of the staple items in the warehouse and

let the store associates order these items directly from the warehouse instead

of from the manufacturer. This also worked extremely well and represented

the dawn of the Wal-Mart distribution system. We drew even closer to the

full-line distribution center in 1970, when Sam built a modest headquarters in

Bentonville that provided both warehouse and office space. As the company

grew and more stores were added, Wal-Mart built and operated additional

warehouses in the areas where the stores were being opened.

At any point in time, there are numerous experiments under way, and many of them result in

new systems that improve productivity and service. Wal-Mart culture has helped us to avoid

the temptation to believe that “we have arrived.” We are always acutely aware that we still

have a lot more to learn.

Over time, more and more of the items were added to the warehouse for

convenient shipping to the stores. Eventually, over 80 percent of the

merchandise that was sold in Wal-Mart stores was shipped directly from

Wal-Mart warehouses. This significantly reduced the dollars tied up in

inventory and improved the “in stock” position in all stores. We reached a

point where we could control the flow of most of the merchandise we sold in

our stores, thereby significantly improving our service to our customers. This

may not sound like a big deal more than thirty years later. But remember, at

that point, we were the only retailer managing freight this way, and we had

established the framework for revolutionizing logistics.

Continuous Improvement

As our company grew and expanded geographically,we continued to open

new warehouses. We always aimed to build in smaller communities where

we could help the local economy and provide jobs for the local people—we

felt a loyalty to our roots in small communities and found that the people

living in these communities were usually very friendly and hardworking.

We started by looking in a general area on a map and identifying potential