SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Motivation and Retention
SUMMARY: An executive's encouraging words to an unhappy employee lead to a change in attitude and eventual promotion to president.
KEYWORDS: employee motivation, employee retention, positive reinforcement, career advancement, leadership development
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

—Dennis McCarthy

Well, on Tuesday, I was walking down the hallway and this crusty old executive vice president stopped me and said,“Don, I’d like to visit with you for a few minutes in my office.” In the year and a half since my first interview with him, I’d never been in that office again. And since I had

already decided to leave the company, it didn’t really matter to me if I ever visited it again.

“Tell me, how are things going?” “Well, you know, they’re okay.”

“Tell me about what you are doing these days. Do you like what you do?”

He proceeded to interrogate me again and found out that I was unhappy. I didn’t tell him I was going to leave, but I told him I was not satisfied with my job there. He looked me in the eye and said, “Don, you know what? I’ve been around a long time. I have observed that ordinary people can get the job done if everything is going just fine and there are no bumps in the road. But I believe that an extraordinary person can get the job done no matter what the circumstances are. Don, I think you’re an extraordinary person.”

Wow! I had received plenty of positive affirmation in my life, but I didn’t think I was an extraordinary person. I’m just running the computer department. But he thinks I’m extraordinary. Did he know I was going to give my resignation notice on Friday and was encouraging me to stay?

There’s no way he could have known. I’ll never know why he called me into his office on that day, but I’m sure glad he did. In light of my future career in retail, I am convinced the meeting was divine Providence in my life.

After much thought and prayer, I decided I was going to stay at Ben Franklin Stores. I reluctantly called my friend and said, “Bud, I’m sorry. I’ve decided to stay here.” I felt bad. I’d given my word. I had told him I was going to come, and now I was taking it back. I felt even worse the next Sunday when I saw him at church. He treated me fine, but I felt a strain in the relationship from my side for quite some time.

I stayed with Ben Franklin. Nothing changed with my job or the environment. I still reported to the same person. Everything was exactly the same—except my attitude. The only difference between Tuesday and Wednesday was that on Wednesday I came to work with a completely different attitude and I felt good—someone thinks that I’m an extraordinary person.

The executive vice president didn’t change my reporting relationship (supervisor) until six months later. That was okay with me, though, because my whole perspective on the situation had changed, and I was determined to prove that he was right. As I think back, this one encounter caused me to approach every situation in my career with the attitude that I could do whatever needed to be done, no matter what the circumstances. In fact, nine years later I became the president of Ben Franklin, a promotion I attribute to the confidence I gained that critical Tuesday.

Has anyone ever told you that you are an extraordinary person? If so, do you remember how it made you feel? Better yet, have you ever told anyone else that he is an extraordinary person, or have you ever made anyone feel that she is extraordinary?

You and I can have a tremendous impact on the job performances of the people around us—but more importantly, we can have an impact on their entire lives. It could happen during a five-minute conversation, with just a few words of encouragement delivered at the right time and in the right way.

The greatest joys I have had in my entire career are the times when associates have come up to me, maybe even years later, and told me that I had in some way impacted their lives: a kind word at just the right time, a pat on the back for something they had done well, a word of encouragement when their spirits were down, a listening ear when they needed to talk with someone, even something I had said in a speech or a suggestion I had offered them on how they could improve what they were doing. Some have even said that they stayed with Wal-Mart because of something I had said that encouraged them to carry on.

Life offers each of us many choices. What could be more rewarding than knowing that you have positively influenced the lives of the people you have encountered? What are you waiting for?

A Friendly Idea

An associate named Lois Richard at the Wal-Mart store in Crowley, Louisiana, had a simple idea that launched a program throughout the entire

Wal-Mart chain, which has become one of the most recognized hallmarks of the company. The store in Crowley had experienced a lot of shoplifting and, as a result, it had a high inventory shrinkage rate year after year.

Lois’s husband was a police officer in town. One night she and her husband were talking about the problem, and she came up with a great idea. Lois went to her manager the next day and shared a new thought with him: “Since we have such a great reputation for customer service, taking good care of our customers and being a friendly store, what would happen if we put someone up at the front of the store to greet customers as they came in? This would make all of our customers feel even more welcome. At the same time, this people-greeter would be a deterrent to shoplifting as they could watch everyone going out the front door.”

The Wal-Mart Ownership Strategy