SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Supply Chain Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of logistics and how Wal-Mart has innovated its supply chain to improve efficiency and pass on savings to customers.
KEYWORDS: logistics, supply chain, distribution, cost reduction, technology
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

examples to illustrate the importance of logistics. Just as technology has

impacted the way many companies think and operate, so logistics has

impacted the way business is conducted in the supply chain.

Our senior logistics executives have always been change-agents and have

continued to adjust the way Wal-Mart handles the distribution of

merchandise. They have changed systems over and over again, and the

Information Systems Division became a real partner with the logistics crew.

Together they have set the standard in the industry for efficient, effective

distribution and continue to operate at the lowest cost of any retailer handling

similar products. Logistics is clearly one of Wal-Mart’s core competencies

that have set us apart from our competitors.

What it takes is leadership that fosters a desire and willingness of their

people to continually look for better ways to do their job, and a strong desire

to be the best that they can be and work together in pursuit of that goal.

Rollin Ford, executive vice president of logistics for Wal-Mart Stores,

recently shared Wal-Mart’s ongoing passion in this area:

Reinventing the supply chain has been about much more than distribution centers, trucks and

trailers, and material handling equipment. The innovations that enhanced our systems and

efficiency have been remarkable, but the true impact is that it has allowed Wal-Mart to stay

true to its vision of creating a great shopping experience for the average family by reducing

retail prices and increasing quality merchandise options for our customers.

For reflection and action:

1. How much attention do you pay to the most basic, ground-level aspects of

your business and life? Why is it so tempting to devote time and resources

to the “big” things, while ignoring the many “little” things that really add

up?

2. What aspects of your business need more attention in order to improve?

3. Do you continually look for ways to improve personally? Is there any area

of your life that has been off-limits to positive change? What is holding

you back?

4. Take a walk through the areas of your organization where work takes

place. Have a notebook and pen in hand. Can you come up with a page of

areas you can improve?

Chapter 10

Creating Supplier Relationships

Coming together is the beginning.

Keeping together is progress.

Working together is success.

—Henry Ford

Wal-Mart Way Principle #10:

When you create win-win relationships with your business partnerships based on trust and open

communications, you maximize your potential for growth.

Y

ou can’t have everyday low prices without everyday low costs. At Wal-

Mart we constantly work with our suppliers to find ways to cut the costs out

of our merchandise so we can pass those savings on to our customers.

Effective use of technology and information systems allow us to

communicate faster and more accurately with each other, and therefore,

become more efficient. As pointed out in the previous chapter, the whole

supply chain offers many opportunities to eliminate hidden and unnecessary

costs in the handling of merchandise. But none of this is possible without

cooperation and collaboration with our suppliers.

I need to tell you, it hasn’t always been this way. The story of how we

forged this new form of supplier-retailer partnership is every bit as vital as

other keys to Wal-Mart’s success.

While we were reinventing our distribution centers and other aspects of the

supply chain, it was obvious that there was still a major disconnect in the

system. To put it simply, we were doing our thing and suppliers were doing

theirs. The relationships were basically cordial, but certainly not collaborative

—we were not working together for the benefit of our customers. That had to

change.

The Traditional Seller-Buyer Relationship—And a Canoe Trip

Seemingly since the beginning of time, the relationship between buyers

and sellers has tended to be somewhat adversarial. The salesperson presents

his or her items to a prospective buyer. They discuss a price and negotiate—

the salesperson attempts to get the highest price and the buyer attempts to get

the lowest price. Either they mutually agree on a price, or no sale would take

place. Wal-Mart conducted business this same way in its early years. That

was the common practice everyone accepted and understood.

In the late eighties, two events took place that drastically changed the

entire buyer-seller dynamic between Wal-Mart and our suppliers. First, Sam

Walton and a personal friend of his, a senior executive at Procter & Gamble

(P&G), took their families on a canoe trip down a stream in Arkansas. In the

course of conversation, they discussed the relationship between the two

companies. We were one of P&G’s largest customers at the time, and it was

our largest supplier.

Sam told his friend that Procter & Gamble was the most difficult supplier

we had to work with. His friend replied that Wal-Mart was P&G’s hardest

retailer to work with. They talked about what would happen if the people in

the two companies worked together more closely to eliminate some of the

friction. They agreed that if they could accomplish that, both companies

could become much more efficient and successful and do a better job of

satisfying our customers. Shortly after that canoe trip John Smale, then

chairman and CEO of Procter & Gamble, called Sam and invited him and

several of us to come to Cincinnati, sit down with his executive team, and see

if the two companies could reach some common ground.

Life is much less a competitive struggle for survival than a triumph of cooperation and creativity.

—Fritjof Capra

As a side note, this momentous meeting almost didn’t happen. John

Pepper, also a former CEO of P&G, shared with me an incident that occurred

several days before the meeting was to take place. Sam called John Smale

and suggested that we probably couldn’t make the trip because it was going

to cost too much. It so happened that the hotel that P&G had reserved for us