SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Leadership Communication
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes Wal-Mart's open-door policy and accessibility of senior leadership to associates, fostering a culture of communication and idea-sharing.
KEYWORDS: leadership accessibility, open-door policy, associate communication, idea-sharing, organizational culture
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Associate Access to Senior Leadership

The doors to the executive offices were always open unless we had a private meeting with someone. The physically open door was a symbol: senior leadership was accessible to our associates. Associates always knew they could walk into our offices anytime they wanted to and share with us an idea that they had come up with or something that concerned them. We always listened to our associates.

Another important way to stay informed was through what I described in chapter 4, the Open Door. More than just a means of voicing complaints, the Open Door was a useful way to hear what was on our associates’ minds and listen to their suggestions for improving the company. And we didn’t just wait for associates to come to us. The open door swung both ways. Our leaders practiced MBWA in the home office in the same way they did in the field. I still have people tell me how much they appreciated the access they had to us and the opportunity we gave them to share their ideas in an informal way and be themselves.

As you can see,Wal-Mart places a great deal of emphasis on communication and staying in touch with the ground-level functioning of the company. At the same time, I realize that this does not assure that everything will be done perfectly. Wal-Mart, like every other company, is made up of imperfect people, and sometimes leaders make mistakes. But our leaders make every effort to be aware of what’s going on so that we can head off problems and continue to improve. In order to accomplish this, leadership

works extremely hard at paying attention to the details of the business.

Everyday Low Costs—the Productivity Loop

“If I’ve learned anything about Wal-Mart, it’s that cost is king,” said Edward Fox, director of the J. C. Penney Center for Retail Excellence at Southern Methodist University. He continued, “They have an almost single- minded focus on reducing costs. It’s imbued throughout the organization.

They are very stingy when they buy for America and distribute products for America.”1

There is no argument that everyday low prices stand out as a significant reason customers shop at Wal-Mart. And everyday low prices are not possible without everyday low costs. Since the day I joined Wal-Mart, I never questioned the company’s strong emphasis on keeping costs as low as possible and finding ways to reduce them even further.

To fully understand the Wal-Mart strategy on controlling costs in order to reduce prices to customers, you must understand the logic behind it. The principle at the heart of making this work was what we called the Productivity Loop.

Every time we save a dollar, that puts us one more step ahead of the competition—which is where we always want to be.

—Sam Walton

The Productivity Loop says that if you can drive costs out of the business, you can reduce prices to your customers. If you reduce prices to your customers, your sales should increase. When your sales increase, your costs as a percent of sales go down, making it possible to reduce your prices to customers again, and so on. Add to that formula a constant cultural pressure to reduce all other unnecessary costs in the business, and it is possible to achieve a compounding effect. Although it’s really quite a simple formula, many people didn’t believe that we could continue to make it work. But the Productivity Loop method and philosophy are still working today, and we keep reducing prices to the customer.

Driving Costs Out

The only way to continue to reduce costs is to make it a priority and weave that philosophy into the very fabric of the culture of the organization. It also requires the leaders’ diligence and discipline and demands accountability for all costs, no matter how large or small. That’s a hallmark of the Wal-Mart way of doing business: driving unnecessary costs out of every area. It is a relentless pursuit of finding ways to do it better, improving productivity and passing savings on to the customer.

There are many possible approaches to attacking costs in an organization, but one thing I know for certain: you must attack them constantly or they will grow disproportionate to your sales, and as a result, your profits will be in jeopardy. The steps necessary for an effective expense control program in any organization are:

Create a company-wide consciousness about controlling all expenses.

Carefully watch what you spend.

Maintain a discipline about how you spend it.

Periodically review your processes.

Simplify the processes that you can.

Eliminate what you don’t need (including entire functions).

Consolidate functions that make sense.

Improve productivity with the help of systems and automation.

Establish accountability throughout the organization.

Since everyday low costs were essential to our overall marketing strategy, cost control had to be ingrained into our daily lives at Wal-Mart. We believed that we needed to have policies that reinforced this same attitude. We believed that we needed to pay attention to the details of the business and be very diligent in analyzing all of our numbers constantly to spot any developing problems. Finally, we believed that we needed to stop every once in a while and reexamine everything we did and look for opportunities to change and improve.

Following are excerpts from an article by Bradford C. Johnson, a consultant with the business research group,McKinsey Company.