SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and Leadership
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of organizational culture, how it can be a positive or negative force, and the role of strong leadership in spreading and maintaining a company's values and beliefs.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, leadership, values, beliefs, company culture
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

ever attended, the associates have always been fired up and ready to go. I

have even been to openings where one or more members of the management

team has had to shave his head or some other silly thing on a dare because the

associates achieved a certain challenging goal. Part of the Wal-Mart culture is

having fun, and that begins before the store is even open.

It is a fact that you project what you are.

—Norman Vincent Peale

Throughout the setup process, the in-store management and the Store

Planning team live the culture every single day, and they expect the new

associates to observe and follow them in all they do. We put a lot of faith in

our managers and planning teams and count on them to spread the culture.

Your Culture Can Help You Fail

The NASA investigating committee that reviewed the Columbia space

shuttle disaster reported the following:

In our view, the NASA organizational culture had as much to do with this accident as the

foam. Organizational culture refers to the basic values, norms, beliefs, and practices that

characterize the functioning of an institution. At the most basic level, organizational culture

defines the assumptions that employees make as they carry out their work. It is a powerful

force that can persist through reorganizations and the change of key personnel. It can be a

positive or a negative force. (Columbia Investigation Accident Board Report. Government

Published Report by NASA.)

NASA is a unique and legendary institution that still holds the distinct

honor of being the only organization to put a man on the moon! So how could

a culture with such a history of success have contributed to such a disaster?

Apparently, over years, a simple but understandable flaw had crept into the

organization. NASA workers, as a rule, did not like to give their bosses bad

news, which was viewed and treated as a negative.

Your culture can sow both the seeds of success and failure in your

organization.

Will the Real Leaders Please Stand Up?

We allow our management teams to have such an important role in

spreading culture because we believe that the key to a strong and meaningful

culture is strong leadership.

From the start, we constantly asked our leadership team to make sure our

people were aware of what our culture was all about and understood what our

values were. There were some individuals, however, who didn’t stay with our

company because they didn’t agree with our values; they just didn’t fit in.

The best thing for them was to leave and join companies where they were in

alignment with those companies’ cultures. And frankly, I believe our

emphasis on the Wal-Mart culture was probably a big favor to them. Why

stay in a job you can’t enjoy?

Let me tell you that what we believed in, we believed in very strongly. We

communicated our three basic beliefs and values frequently in meetings

because the culture of our company was important enough to us that we

wanted to weave our values into everything we did. I see so many companies

that state their values only in the associate handbook and never mention them

to their people again, either in writing or verbally. How can you expect

people to live out the values of a company if they are never reminded about

them? Some companies do place them in hallways or on bulletin boards but

never talk about them in meetings or remind their people how essential they

are in successfully running their divisions, departments, or the company. Be

aware that such neglect will not get the job done for your organization. A

culture must be sustained by constant regeneration, and the responsibility for

the culture lies with the leaders.

Sustaining the Culture

John Gardner, whom I quoted at the beginning of the chapter, says:

“Values always decay over time. Societies that keep their values alive do so

not by escaping the process of decay, but by the powerful processes of

regeneration.”

Three Essentials for Leadership

The key to a strong and meaningful culture is strong leadership. The task of

developing and sustaining a company culture cannot be delegated—it is too

important! While there are many things that leaders can do to emphasize the

importance of the culture of a company, three things are essential.

1. Leaders must unequivocally believe in the culture themselves.

2. Leaders must be visible role models to all their people—in other words,

leaders must “walk their talk.”

3. Leaders must constantly remind people what the values really mean in the

workplace, to show what these values actually look like and how they are

put into practice every day on the job.

When I first read this statement, I didn’t like the way it sounded. In fact, I

took it personally. You mean that in Wal-Mart we can’t keep our focus on

what made us successful in the past? Wait a second—why do values have to

decay? I don’t understand that. I don’t agree with that.

But then it hit me. Look at our own culture in America. I think a serious

decay of shared values has occurred over the past quarter of a century, a

process that seems to have accelerated in the last ten to fifteen years. There

no longer seems to be common ground on what is right and what is wrong.

Absolutes have become blurred at best.

Why? Why would values decay over time? I think several things threaten a

value system. In America, perhaps the single biggest issue is our own

success. We are part of the most prosperous generation and society in history.

Prosperity leads to materialism, which leads to a strong desire to get more for

ourselves—selfishness. Our selfishness causes us get so wrapped up in our

own needs, wants, and issues that we forget about others. Tragically, when

we forget about others, we often drift away from our core values.