SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Private Label Product Development
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart embarked on developing high-quality, cost-effective private-label products to provide customers with name-brand quality at reasonable prices.
KEYWORDS: private label, product development, quality control, customer value, packaging
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

from comparisons.

In the early years, we offered a limited number of private-label items, but

they represented only a small portion of our sales. The most familiar private-

label item we carried was dog food named Ol’ Roy after Sam Walton’s

favorite hunting dog.

In the late 1980s, however, the prices of numerous national brand items

were continuing to increase beyond levels that we believed to be reasonable.

Even at our comparatively lower prices, we didn’t believe we were providing

adequate value for our customers. Wal-Mart management determined that our

customers should have the option to buy name-brand quality at a reasonable

cost. As a result, the company embarked on the development of several lines

of store-brand or private-label items that would be at least comparable to

national brands in quality, but significantly lower in price. This was a major

departure from the historical practice of private-label merchandise in

retailing. The standard at that time for private-label merchandise was

definitely lower price, but also significantly lower quality sold in unattractive

packaging.

Each item Wal-Mart selected, whether it was food or one of the general

merchandise categories, was sent out to independent testing laboratories to

ensure that the quality met our specifications and our customers’

expectations. Only the highest level of quality was acceptable. In fact, we

aimed to exceed the quality of the name-brand items whenever possible.

Packaging was also extremely important. With the package being the window

to the product, we thought it critical that the package represent the same

quality as the product inside. As a result of our rigorous efforts, we

introduced to U.S. retailing private-label items with not only great quality and

low prices, but also in extremely attractive packages with very colorful

graphics.

Why do I keep emphasizing the packaging? What does that have to do with

quality? What does that have to do with putting the customer first? What

made this so important to Wal-Mart was that we were attempting to affirm

that cost-conscious people deserve and can afford quality items,without the

emotionally negative stigma associated with such inferior packaging.

Remember, Sam started in the retail industry when people living in small

towns did not have an equal shopping experience with those living in larger

metropolitan areas.

We carefully reviewed and tested each item during development to make

sure that it was exactly what our customers were looking for and represented

a genuine value. We added easy-open lids and zippers if needed and chose

sizes that provided the best value relationship between quantity and price to

the customer. Sam’s Clubs also began developing its own private-label

merchandise and selling some of the Wal-Mart brands to their members.

As each of these fine brands continued to gain our customers’ acceptance

and trust, sales increased, and as an unexpected outcome, our private labels

became name brands. The next step was to introduce these offerings to our

International Division, and they have likewise become international brands in

countries all over the world. This has allowed us to expand our original goal

of providing U.S. customers with a low-priced, quality alternative to name

brands and giving that same opportunity to international customers

worldwide. Today many of the company’s store brands, such as Ol’ Roy and

Great Value, have become the number-one brands in the U.S. and are

growing in acceptance globally.

Family Store Values

As a family store, we made merchandising decisions that cost us sales

because they were in conflict with our values and our heritage. We chose not

to carry certain magazines that we did not find appropriate for family. We

decided that we should not stock CDs that had suggestive pictures on the

cover or vulgar words in the lyrics; the same rule applied for games and

videos. While this caused quite a stir in the record industry and the media at

first, companies began producing edited versions that we would sell, and we

even became involved in some of the coding and rating systems of the music

and gaming industry. Eventually, other discounters chose to sell the edited

versions in their stores as well.

Wal-Mart is the greatest thing that ever happened to low income Americans.They can stretch their

dollars and afford things they otherwise couldn’t.

—W. Michael Cox, chief economist,

Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, the

New York Times, December 2003

While you can’t please everyone, and I’m sure we have stocked

merchandise in our stores that we weren’t fully aware of content-wise, we

have consistently attempted to honor the morals and sensibilities of the

everyday individuals who shop in our stores and clubs. With our emphasis on

being a family store, we were particularly sensitive in our merchandising

decision not to embarrass parents who bring their children into our stores

while shopping.

We Are All Merchants First—The VPI Contest

Sam Walton was a great merchant—he had an uncanny sense of what

people wanted to buy—and he wanted everyone in the company to be a great

merchant also, from our buyers to our hourly associates. We talked about

merchandise all the time. In many of our meetings, we showed all of our

people the new and “hot” items and categories. I strongly believe that if you

want your associates to have a real interest in your company, you have to

expose them to your products. A common saying in our company was “We

are merchants first.” That was even a motto in the technology department.

One of the most successful—and entertaining—programs we developed

was called “VPI,” which stands for a Volume-Producing Item. Every

department manager in every store selects an item that he or she believes can

become a fast seller. They then feature the items in their stores, perhaps on an

end cap or with special signage, and keep track of the sales of that item.

Meanwhile, the store managers and assistants also pick an item. So all

throughout the store a friendly competition begins—to see whose item does