SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Leadership and Organizational Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges leaders face in staying involved in the details of their organization as it grows, and provides strategies for leaders to stay informed and engaged.
KEYWORDS: leadership, organizational growth, employee engagement, customer focus, information monitoring
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

certainly not easy, especially as a company becomes large. There are so many

critical decisions and actions that must happen on so many different levels,

made by so many different people, and in so many different locations. How

does a leader make sure all that happens?

As leaders move higher in an organization and as that organization grows,

there is a mistaken assumption, a widespread myth, that they no longer have

time to be involved in the details of the business. As it correctly and

appropriately becomes necessary for them to delegate more responsibilities

and authority to others and to reallocate their time to activities that they

consider of higher priority, many leaders make the critical error of losing

touch with the frontline people in the organization and with their true boss,

the customer.

Failure is the opportunity to begin again, more intelligently.

—Henry Ford

When leaders lose sight of the details, it is almost impossible for them to

effectively evaluate how well their organization is executing. As an

additional by-product, I would suggest to you that nothing will demoralize

those who work for you more quickly than when you no longer have an

active knowledge of what’s going on in the business.

There is no question that when people get promoted up the corporate

ladder, they can no longer do everything they once did or in the same way

they once did it. There simply aren’t enough hours in the day. I believe,

however, it is essential that to be effective, a leader must continue to find

ways to stay in touch with how the company operates.

The first key for a leader to stay intimately involved in the details of the

organization is to have a system in place that allows him or her to monitor

details at a glance. We live in an information age, and with all the reports and

sortable data that is instantly available at any manager’s fingertips, it is

amazing how many leaders allow reports to stack up and gather dust on a

corner of their credenzas. I’m not calling for more reports. But do read the

ones you have.

The second key for leaders to stay intimately involved in the details of

their organizations is to get out of their offices and head to where the action

is. Work beside someone for a couple of hours. Ask him questions about his

job. Talk to customers. (I will cover this in more detail later in the chapter.)

We have heard in recent years about too many senior leaders denying any

responsibility for significant wrongdoing in their organizations because they

weren’t aware of what was happening. While it is true that no organization is

immune to individual managers and supervisors making bad and unethical

decisions on key strategic issues, leadership must find a way to stay

informed.

I do not believe that there is one right way for a leader to stay involved; the

very nature of a particular business will dictate what is and what is not

possible, and what is most important. But the key is for the leader to find a

way to continue to receive feedback, both formally and informally, in order

to effectively judge what’s going on.

Leaders Must Stay in Touch

Effective communication within an organization takes hard work. To stay

in touch, you must remove physical distance as a barrier to be sure that your

communication is not being filtered through too many layers. You must find

a way to remain close to your associates and customers, making sure that you

are available and not living in an ivory tower. Long before it became a

popular business acronym, Sam believed in MBWA (management by

walking around). Apart from all the good intentions and principles of

providing outstanding customer satisfaction, there must be a method of

evaluating the actual execution of those intentions and principles. You have

to be sure that what you think should happen is actually taking place. We did

it several ways.

Constant In-Store Presence

First of all, we established a structure that kept leadership in constant

contact with associates and customers. In Wal-Mart or any large retail chain,

with stores and clubs scattered across large geographic areas, you obviously

can’t be aware of everything that goes on everywhere at every moment, but

that doesn’t mean you don’t try.

In Wal-Mart, from the beginning, every store manager reported to a district

manager who supervised six to twelve stores, depending on the size of the

stores and the geography. The district manager lived in close proximity to

those stores and spent time in each one at least once every two weeks,

helping the management team and associates to improve their store. Their

chief responsibility was to see that the Wal-Mart programs—including people

programs for our associates—were being executed effectively. No wonder

programs such as the Open Door worked. Associates got to know the district

manager by name and could count on seeing him or her on a regular basis.

Each district manager reported to a regional vice president who supervised

approximately ten district managers and one hundred stores. The regional

vice presidents lived in northwest Arkansas and flew out to their stores every

Monday morning on a Wal-Mart plane and returned home every Thursday

evening. They visited every one of their stores approximately every three

months. In addition to visiting Wal-Mart stores, they also visited our

competitors’ stores, This centralized structure provided experienced eyes

examining the entire retail landscape every single day. We observed what we

were doing well, what we were doing poorly, and what others were doing

better than we were. Management made improvements store by store on all of

these trips.

Senior Leaders in the Field

In addition to the constant contact of the district managers and regional

vice presidents, Sam was personally in numerous Wal-Mart stores every

week. He went into the office around 4:00 or 5:00 AM to do some paperwork