SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Recruitment and Hiring
SUMMARY: The passage describes the author's experience with a thorough job interview process and his decision to switch to a new job with better opportunities.
KEYWORDS: job interview, hiring process, employee decision-making, career change, job satisfaction
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

to check it out and went through the normal interview process. Several days

later, I received a call and was asked to come back in because the executive

vice president of the company wanted to talk to me. I was somewhat

surprised because back then computers weren’t a big deal, so I didn’t

understand why I was talking to the executive vice president of the company

when I wouldn’t even be working for him.

I went through the interview and didn’t feel that I did very well. The

drapes in his office—already dark with its mahogany paneling—were closed,

and the lights were on a dim setting. Behind the mahogany desk sat this

crusty old guy. He didn’t get up when I walked into the room but just sat

there until I walked up to the desk.

He said, “You may be seated,” so I sat down. In the next thirty minutes, he

proceeded to interrogate me as I had never been interrogated before. And in

that short period of time, he found out everything about me. When I went

home that night, I told my wife, “Whoa, did I blow it today. I mean, there’s

no way they’ll hire me—I’ll be surprised if I even hear from them again.” To

my surprise, a few days later I was offered the job.

Over the next year and a half as I worked for Ben Franklin, I saw the

executive vice president a few times as we passed in the hallway. He always

remembered my name and said,“Hi, Don,” but that was it. Unfortunately, I

was unhappy with my job and my supervisor and frustrated. I would go to

one of the operating departments and attempt to develop a computer system

based on what that specific department told me it needed to improve or

reduce costs. Then my direct manager would come around and tell the

department, “That’s not what you need. Let me show you what you need.”

After going through that a few times, I was at the point where I was irritated

with nearly anything—and everything—the man I worked for did.

Then one day, a good friend of mine, who went to the same church I went

to, called me and said, “Don, I understand you’re in computers. We need a

computer person to come down to our savings and loan and run the

technology department. Would you be interested in an interview?”

“Well, Bud, you caught me at a good time,” I answered. “I sure would.”

I went downtown to the largest savings and loan in Chicago and

interviewed with him and the personnel department. Bud was executive vice

president, and I would be working for him. He offered me more money than I

was making at Ben Franklin. Plus, I would become assistant vice president—

now that was a big deal. And the benefits didn’t stop there; I’d be working

for a friend. And instead of driving one hour to work each way every day, I

could ride a train downtown and read the paper and do some work. On a

Monday, I accepted the job and said, “I’ll give my two weeks’ notice on

Friday.”

If you want your employees to put forth the discretionary effort that ensures customer loyalty, you need

to focus as much on your employees as you do on your customers.

—Dennis McCarthy

Well, on Tuesday, I was walking down the hallway and this crusty old

executive vice president stopped me and said,“Don, I’d like to visit with you

for a few minutes in my office.” In the year and a half since my first

interview with him, I’d never been in that office again. And since I had

already decided to leave the company, it didn’t really matter to me if I ever

visited it again.

“Tell me, how are things going?”

“Well, you know, they’re okay.”

“Tell me about what you are doing these days. Do you like what you do?”

He proceeded to interrogate me again and found out that I was unhappy. I

didn’t tell him I was going to leave, but I told him I was not satisfied with my

job there. He looked me in the eye and said, “Don, you know what? I’ve been

around a long time. I have observed that ordinary people can get the job done

if everything is going just fine and there are no bumps in the road. But I

believe that an extraordinary person can get the job done no matter what the

circumstances are. Don, I think you’re an extraordinary person.”

Wow! I had received plenty of positive affirmation in my life, but I didn’t

think I was an extraordinary person. I’m just running the computer

department. But he thinks I’m extraordinary. Did he know I was going to

give my resignation notice on Friday and was encouraging me to stay?

There’s no way he could have known. I’ll never know why he called me into

his office on that day, but I’m sure glad he did. In light of my future career in

retail, I am convinced the meeting was divine Providence in my life.

After much thought and prayer, I decided I was going to stay at Ben

Franklin Stores. I reluctantly called my friend and said, “Bud, I’m sorry. I’ve

decided to stay here.” I felt bad. I’d given my word. I had told him I was

going to come, and now I was taking it back. I felt even worse the next

Sunday when I saw him at church. He treated me fine, but I felt a strain in the

relationship from my side for quite some time.

I stayed with Ben Franklin. Nothing changed with my job or the

environment. I still reported to the same person. Everything was exactly the

same—except my attitude. The only difference between Tuesday and

Wednesday was that on Wednesday I came to work with a completely

different attitude and I felt good—someone thinks that I’m an extraordinary