SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Supplier Relationship Management
SUMMARY: This passage discusses Wal-Mart's collaborative relationship with suppliers, leading to dramatic improvements in inventory turns and cost savings.
KEYWORDS: supplier relationship, inventory turns, cost savings, negotiation, fairness
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

embarked on this relationship with Procter & Gamble, our annual purchases

from them were approximately $350 million. In the year ending January 31,

2004, these purchases surpassed $8 billion.

Another dramatic example was what happened to the inventory turns of

some items. In 1987, inventory turns on disposable diapers was

approximately twenty times per year. As a result of Wal-Mart and Procter &

Gamble’s working together, the number of turns was increased to seventy-

five times per year. This type of improvement would appear to be impossible,

but it happened. While this is certainly an extreme case, there were thousands

of items that showed marked improvement.

Our relationship with Wal-Mart is an extension of our own family. They care about us. Yes,

they expect a lot of us as they do of themselves.They’re wonderful at sharing direction and

ideas. They will let you be as involved as you want to be, to the point of serving on some

advisory boards. It’s not about us or them but “we.” It’s a real team effort.

—Skip Rein, vice chairman,

Bernstein-Rein Advertising,

Kansas City, MO

But the success wasn’t limited to Procter & Gamble and GE. We have

similar results with many, many other suppliers. In fact, the trust-relationship,

open-communication revolution has impacted the entire retail industry.

Retailers and suppliers all over the world have learned from what we did and

changed many of their practices as well.

This is another example about striving to be the best we can be in all we

do. There were obviously risks involved in what we did and investments we

had to make, but everyone involved experienced enormous payback. With the

changes that we instituted with our suppliers, we entered a new era of supply

chain management.

Everyday Low-Cost Negotiating

Driven by our constant focus on keeping prices low for our customers, we

have always attempted to buy merchandise at the lowest cost possible. The

collaboration with suppliers that I have just explained has helped drive

millions of dollars of unnecessary cost out of operations and logistics.

But in addition to real cost savings, I must confess that Wal-Mart buyers

have always been tough negotiators. Literally hundreds and hundreds of

suppliers have told me personally that Wal-Mart’s buyers are the toughest

negotiators in the retail industry. They are also quick to add that Wal-Mart is

likewise the fairest company to work with, and that their own companies are

definitely better because of doing business with Wal-Mart.

Wal-Mart leadership insists we pay our bills on time and that we keep any

promises we have made to suppliers. Any buyer who accepts gifts, trips, or

any other special personal considerations from a supplier will be terminated.

Our buyers are rotated among departments so that their decisions remain fair

and objective rather than personality-driven. Our goal has always been to

keep business dealings aboveboard.

Yes, Wal-Mart can be a demanding customer for suppliers, but always in

an ethical and fair manner. It stands to reason that Wal-Mart must have

successful and healthy suppliers in order to stay successful itself. We depend

on well over ten thousand suppliers to provide the merchandise for our stores.

We need them every bit as much as they need us.

Another way that we have kept our costs down is to ask our suppliers to

eliminate the practice of periodic special deals, allowances, and other forms

of temporary cost reductions. How does this keep costs down? Simple. We

tell them to forget the specials and sell the merchandise to us without any

frills at their rock-bottom prices every day. We don’t want great deals on

unpopular merchandise that customers don’t want unless it’s drastically

reduced. We believe our everyday low cost approach best serves our

customers by providing the everyday low prices and the right merchandise. It

also greatly simplifies the inventory management process because we don’t

have to keep track of a myriad of special deals that are still so common in the

retail industry.

Wal-Mart has also focused on working with small suppliers and minority

suppliers. It is amazing how many of these companies have experienced rapid

growth and become highly successful organizations in their own right. We

love that. Remember, Sam’s original vision was to provide for customers in

small rural markets. Also, the concept of Sam’s Clubs is to sell supplies and

merchandise to the owners of small businesses at lower prices than they can

get anywhere else. Although Wal-Mart has become the largest company in

the world, we are still focused on reducing the cost of living for every single

customer at every socioeconomic level. By working in partnership with our

suppliers and continuing to drive costs out, we will maintain our focus on

doing what is right for our customers.

Wal-Mart’s expectations of suppliers are high but fair and their tough negotiation is always

conducted in a professional and principled manner to better serve their customers. The Wal-

Mart/Procter & Gamble partnership approach created tremendous benefits for both

companies and changed the face of customer/supplier relationships worldwide.

—Tom Muccio, retired president of

Procter & Gamble Global

Customer Teams and team leader of

Procter & Gamble’s Wal-Mart team

OrangeGlo’s Simple Formula for Success

How does a company go from creating, testing, refining, and

manufacturing home cleaning products in the garage—using a secondhand

Maytag washer as the mixer—to grow into a major world supplier of thirty

household cleaning products with great brand recognition, including

OxyClean,KaBoom, and others? Max Appel and his wife had a simple

formula that included hard work and a dogged determination to test every

sales channel.

• The Appels began selling a variety of their homegrown products at home

shows and state fairs in and around Colorado in 1985.

• Through countless hours of trial and elimination, they created OrangeGlo,

their first signature product. It was a squirt-and-wipe product made from

orange oil, which dissolved grease, handprints, and grime from hard

surfaces. After several improvements to the formula, including a better-