SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Customer Service and Workforce Management
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's success is attributed to its focus on hiring friendly and engaged associates, creating a welcoming in-store experience for customers.
KEYWORDS: customer service, employee hiring, store atmosphere, Wal-Mart culture, Ten-Foot Rule
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

something reminding you how important the customer is. Our associates have

bought into Sam’s vision. They believe in the company and what we stand

for. And it shows up every time a customer enters the store.

How do you create a friendly workforce? One of the simplest ways is to

hire cheerful people. For Wal-Mart then, our friendliness begins with the

hiring process. We look for positive, outgoing people—people we would

enjoy talking to and working with. So we ask our associates if they have

friends that would like to work here—people they would recommend. In

many of our stores, the hiring committee is made up of hourly associates who

have demonstrated that they are pleasant and hardworking and care about

other people. They generally make excellent choices about who would fit in

well at Wal-Mart. We tell them to hire happy people and then release them on

the customers.

Three Simple Business Reminders

1. Customers know what they want. Listen to them.

2. Timing is everything—stay in stock!

3. Half of consumers agree that if they find a helpful salesperson, they often

end up spending more money than intended.

In the chapter “The Power of Culture,” I mentioned that not everyone who

has come to work for Wal-Mart buys into the Wal-Mart culture, and because

of the ongoing emphasis we put on our culture, they often don’t stick around.

That is particularly the case with friendliness. Some people think that smiling

and trying to be helpful is a bit too naïve, unsophisticated, and even sappy for

their personas. That’s okay. These people simply need to find a company or

organization that presents a different demeanor. Wal-Mart is small-town

friendly.

What’s the Ten-Foot Rule?

Sam instituted what he called the Ten-Foot Rule. When you come within

ten feet of a customer, no matter what you are doing, look up, look the

customer in the eye, and speak to him. If you are asked where something is,

instead of pointing to the aisle or trying to explain where it is, take him to the

merchandise. This amazes many customers.

As a result,Wal-Mart customers feel as if they belong in our stores. Our

customers are frequently in our stores several times a week—some even

daily. Our associates actually get to know the names of many of their

customers, and people love to be called by name. Customers come in looking

for certain associates to talk with when they are in the store. Frequently,

customers refer to a particular store as “my Wal-Mart.” They actually feel a

sense of ownership, which leads to a real family atmosphere and very

positively influences their entire shopping experience. Our advertising

agency frequently interviews customers in our stores and asks them what they

like about Wal-Mart and why they shop there. One customer they

interviewed responded, “I trust Wal-Mart; it’s like my grandma told me to

shop here.” The associates’ friendliness makes the customers feel at home

and, we believe, really sets Wal-Mart apart from our competitors.

Businesses planned for service are apt to succeed; businesses planned for profit are apt to fail.

—Nicholas Murray Butler

Little Things Mean a Lot

Customer loyalty doesn’t just happen; you have to work on it every day. It

isn’t only big things; it’s a lot of little things done over and over again. Over

time, these little things demonstrate to your customers that you really care

about them and are genuinely interested in satisfying them. It is important to

understand that you don’t do it only to increase sales; you do it because it’s

the right thing to do.

It means having a people-greeter in every Wal-Mart store to welcome

every customer when he or she comes in the front door. It means that it is

incredibly important to be in stock on every item, so we don’t disappoint any

customer. In fact, “in stock”may be the most important element of customer

satisfaction because, obviously, customers come in to buy merchandise. If

they can’t find what they came for, they will leave disappointed. If that

happens too frequently, they will shop somewhere else. That’s why Wal-Mart

puts so much emphasis on execution. You can be a pretty store—brightly lit,

clean and attractive, with friendly sales clerks—but if you are out of stock,

the customers will leave your store unhappy.

It means accepting merchandise back if the customer is not satisfied. If

something doesn’t fit, is the wrong color, or doesn’t work, bring it back

without a hassle—just have your sales receipt. We have tried to eliminate the

hassle and make it easy. (Unfortunately, however, some customers try to take

advantage of our liberal returns policy, and this has caused the company to

tighten up on returns so that our honest customers are not penalized by

increased prices.)

It means creating an atmosphere of excitement in every store. Our

associates love doing fun things like dressing up in costumes for holidays,

decorating their stores for the different seasons, displaying balloons and

signs, having style shows, or having local organizations do bake sales and

other fund-raisers out front. These are high energy activities that lift the

spirits of the customers and associates alike and simultaneously create a

festive atmosphere in the stores. They make Wal-Mart a fun place to shop.

Let me ask you: Do your customers enjoy doing business with you?

Prices Aren’t Everything, but They Come Close

Wal-Mart has established a great reputation for low prices. The real key is

everyday low prices—not just advertised low prices on a few selected items

for a week or weekend. I remember in past years going to seminars and

conferences with other retailers and discussing our respective marketing

strategies. They talked about their weekly or biweekly advertising circulars

and how those were their bread-and-butter method for drawing customers

into their stores. Then they would politely acknowledge our idea of everyday

low prices as a strategy for attracting customers but never sounded too

impressed.