SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Management
SUMMARY: This book provides insights into the success of Walmart, a legendary retail company, through the perspective of its long-time friend and confidante, Don Soderquist.
KEYWORDS: Walmart, Retail Success, Management Principles, Entrepreneurship, Sam Walton
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Praise for

THE WALMART WAY

by Don Soderquist

“This fascinating story of the American Dream has become a part of the Americana—vision, discipline, passion, when governed by conscience, changes the world. The centerpiece is people. Read this book and enjoy the ride!”

—Dr. Stephen R. Covey | Author, The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People and

The 8th Habit: From Effectiveness to Greatness

“The Wal-Mart Way is a fascinating and historic look at the story of one of the world’s most legendary companies, written from the inside by Sam Walton’s long-time friend and confidante. You’ll learn a lot about how a great company was built.”

—Jack Welch | Former Chairman and CEO, General Electric

“Retailing has always been in my blood. Like Sam Walton, I spent as much time as I could visiting other people’s stores, but through the years I learned that Wal-Mart is in a class all by itself. It’s the epitome of retail. The story of this unbelievable organization began in—of all places—Bentonville, Arkansas, and is the greatest retail story of all times. Don Soderquist gives us insight on how it was accomplished and offers a useful guide to entrepreneurs everywhere who want to take advantage of our great free enterprise system.

The Wal-Mart Way truly shows what can be achieved out of this life. Great reading.”

—Bernie Marcus | Cofounder, The Home Depot

“Sam Walton was a passionate man. His passions were his God, his family, his country, and his business. All of us who knew Sam Walton have wished we could leave for posterity a proper portrait of this uncommon man. One of his closest friends and business associates has done it. In The Wal-Mart Way you are going to meet Mister Sam through the friendly eyes of Don Soderquist. Good for you.”

—Paul Harvey | Paul Harvey News

“As Don Soderquist can uniquely relate, the Wal-Mart phenomenon is the result of a strong culture and clear values, sound strategy and vision, outstanding leadership, and disciplined management execution—necessary ingredients to any great organization’s success.”

—Frederick W. Smith | Founder and CEO, FedEx Corporation

“I always hoped that Don Soderquist would take the time to explain the foundations of Wal-Mart’s success. He has done it superbly, capturing its essence—from Sam Walton’s vision that started it all; to the unrelenting focus on the customer; to respect for people and values, teamwork, and relationships; to the never-ending quest for improvement and growth and commitment to excellence. Soderquist has done this in a way that not only explains Wal-Mart but can be applied to any institution, profit or nonprofit. The lessons in The Wal-Mart Way are at once concrete, accessible, highly engaging, and broadly applicable. This is a book that countless readers will benefit from.”

—John E. Pepper Jr. | Retired Chairman and CEO, Procter & Gamble

“Although many books and stories have been published featuring Sam Walton and the amazing success of his company, no one relates the inside story of the company better than Don Soderquist. Sam Walton was . . . visionary, an inspiring motivator, and an extremely intelligent individual with

high personal integrity . . . His remarkable ability to blend strategies, operating principles and personal values together formed a company culture that carried the organization to unparalleled success . . . Above all, the Wal- Mart success story is an exciting and encouraging example of the unlimited opportunities available in the American free enterprise system. The Wal-Mart Way is a book that readers will find openly revealing, highly informative and truly enlightening.”

—Stanley C. Gault | Retired Chairman and CEO, Goodyear Tire & Rubber

Company, Rubbermaid, Inc.

“Don Soderquist has written a book that not only gives us insight into the success of Wal-Mart, but also shows us how we can be responsible role models in our own businesses and communities. Thank you, Don, for clearly defining the how-to’s of being an ethical leader in the 21st century.”

—Anne Beiler | Founder and CEO, Auntie Anne’s, Inc.

“The Wal-Mart Way terrifically captures the Wal-Mart soul in a way only Don Soderquist could do. A powerful story of the past and a roadmap for the future, it is presented in a very engaging way.”

—Steven S. Reinemund | Chairman and CEO, PepsiCo

“This is a story about the vision, values, drive, and commitment that created the strongest retail machine ever. It’s about compassion, caring, and understanding. It is not a history story; it is the story of how it all gets done. It’s The Wal-Mart Way—envied, emulated, and often feared. And it is eloquently told by one of the key architects of the culture that created it all.”

—Joe Scarlett | Chairman of the Board, Tractor Supply Company

THE           WAL MART® WAY

THE

WAL	MART®

WAY

THE INSIDE STORY OF THE SUCCESS OF THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMPANY

Don Soderquist

Copyright © 2005 by Donald Soderquist

All rights reserved. No portion of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means—electronic, mechanical, photocopy, recording, scanning, or other—except for brief quotations in critical reviews or articles, without the prior written permission of the publisher.

Published in Nashville, Tennessee, by Thomas Nelson, Inc.

Nelson Books titles may be purchased in bulk for educational, business, fund-raising, or sales promotional use. For information, please e-mail: SpecialMarkets@ThomasNelson.com.

All Scripture quotations, unless otherwise indicated, are taken from the HOLY BIBLE: NEW INTERNATIONAL VERSION®. Copyright © 1973, 1978, 1984 by International Bible Society. Used by permission of Zondervan Publishing House. All rights reserved.

Scripture marked NLT is taken from the Holy Bible, New Living Translation, copyright © 1996. Used by permission of Tyndale House Publishers, Inc.,Wheaton, Illinois 60189. All rights reserved.

Cover Photo by Debrorah Billingsley Photography

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

Soderquist, Don.

The Wal-Mart way: the inside story of the success of the world’s largest company / Don Soderquist.

p. cm.

Includes bibliographical references. ISBN 0-7852-6119-2 (hardcover)

1. Wal-Mart (Firm)—Management. 2. Discount houses (Retail trade)—United States—Management. I. Title.

HF5429.215.U6S63 2005 381'.14906573--dc22