SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Merchandising Strategy
SUMMARY: Walmart's merchandising strategy focuses on offering a wide range of everyday products for families across all socioeconomic levels, with an emphasis on quality, low prices, and a large assortment.
KEYWORDS: Retail Merchandising, Family Store, Assortment, Low Prices, Quality
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Wal-Mart Merchandising Strategy—The Family Store

Customers come to our stores and wholesale clubs for the merchandise we offer for sale. Since the customers are the boss, our merchandising strategy focuses on what they need, what they want to buy. Wal-Mart buyers make thousands of decisions every single day on what to buy for those customers. From the very beginning, we needed to establish ground rules for our buyers to follow as they made those decisions.

What kind of a store are we? We are a family store. We want to supply the everyday needs of every member of the family. Furthermore, we want to offer merchandise that every family in the country needs, regardless of its socioeconomic level. In other words, every single family is a candidate to be a Wal-Mart shopper for something; therefore, we carry most of the items needed to run a household, with heavy emphasis on consumable items. After all, we have one hundred million family members shop in our stores each week.

We recognized that we couldn’t be everything to everybody, so we made choices to focus primarily on basics. That meant that we would stay away from the higher-priced lines, such as dress clothes and other high-end merchandise lines. In the apparel area, for example, we chose to sell basic sportswear and casual office wear. At the same time, it was extremely important for us to always offer quality to our customers, and therefore we emphasized buying name-brand merchandise wherever possible, and we never sold seconds.

Another dimension to our merchandising strategy is that we always offered as wide an assortment of merchandise as possible. Today, in an average Wal- Mart store we have more than eighty thousand individual items, and more than one hundred thousand items in a Supercenter, approximately 30 percent more than our competitors. Because of the diversity of our markets, our stores actually choose from more than four hundred thousand items. Our customers told us that’s what they wanted. Every market research report I have ever seen shows that customers, in general, want a large assortment.

Whoever renders service to many puts himself in line for greatness—great wealth, great return, great satisfaction, great reputation, and great joy.

—Jim Rohn

Recognizing that many of our customers are average American families working hard to make ends meet,we believe that low prices are essential, and we never stop working to keep our prices low. Coupling our buying strategy with our pricing strategy, as a result of our overall merchandising strategy we have been able to achieve a dominant market position in categories as diverse as dog food, fabric and crafts, toys, men’s and boys’ underwear and socks,

and music and videos.

Sam’s Clubs—A Different Customer and Approach

The merchandising strategy in Sam’s Clubs is completely different from that in Wal-Mart stores. Since the primary customer has joined the store, making him or her a “member,” and he is usually a small-business owner, the breadth of assortment is not as important as in family-driven stores. Each club carries between thirty-five hundred and four thousand individual items. What is important is that we offer the most common items our members need in their businesses and carry them in mass quantities and in larger servings sizes. By limiting the assortment and handling the merchandise by full pallet loads, we keep costs at a minimum, thereby offering prices to the members at the lowest level possible.

As a special courtesy to business owners and in respect for their time, Sam’s also sets certain hours in the morning when only business owners can shop. Since they purchase large quantities of items and usually load them on flatbed hand trucks, it makes it easier for them to get what they need without other shoppers and families crowding the aisles.

Sam’s merchandise assortment is also geared to higher-priced items for individual members that are usually sold in department stores. We sell these items at unbelievably low prices, offering a huge savings over what a member would pay anywhere else. This practice attracts many members who regularly do much of their shopping in department stores and specialty shops.

Another important concept of the Sam’s Club strategy is to always have new merchandise flowing in for a limited period of time and then replacing it with other new items. This creates a sense of a “treasure hunt” every time a member shops in the club because there is always something new. The expect-the-unexpected feel is a great appeal to the individual members as well as the business owners for their personal needs. Periodically, for example, a “road show” of items such as fine furniture, pool tables, or luxury gifts will be brought into a club for several weeks and then moved to another club. The novelty also adds to the excitement of shopping in a Sam’s Club.

As you can see, the merchandising strategies of Wal-Mart’s different

divisions are not the same, but the thinking processes behind the strategies are identical. The common threads are:

Focusing on the customers by providing the merchandise they are asking for, not what you may want to sell them.

Driving down the costs of operations.

Keeping prices as low as possible.

Creating a fun and friendly shopping environment.

The Power of Accountability

Over the years, we learned that every time we drifted from these basic fundamentals of merchandising, our business suffered, and we had to get back to square one. Sometimes it’s difficult to reverse direction and correct yourself, and that’s where some once-great companies have floundered to the point of extinction. They were either unwilling or unable to admit that they had slipped in their relevance to the market.

Anytime our sales fell below certain defined expectations, we had to remind ourselves that it wasn’t the customers or our competition that was to blame: it was us. As Julius Caesar said to Brutus in Shakespeare’s play: “The fault, dear Brutus, is not in the stars, but in ourselves.”

Addition of Private-Label Merchandise