SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Supplier Relationship Management
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart and Procter & Gamble overcame their lack of trust and started collaborating to improve efficiency and customer satisfaction.
KEYWORDS: supplier relationship, trust, collaboration, efficiency, customer satisfaction
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

In the late eighties, two events took place that drastically changed the entire buyer-seller dynamic between Wal-Mart and our suppliers. First, Sam Walton and a personal friend of his, a senior executive at Procter & Gamble (P&G), took their families on a canoe trip down a stream in Arkansas. In the course of conversation, they discussed the relationship between the two companies. We were one of P&G’s largest customers at the time, and it was our largest supplier.

Sam told his friend that Procter & Gamble was the most difficult supplier we had to work with. His friend replied that Wal-Mart was P&G’s hardest retailer to work with. They talked about what would happen if the people in the two companies worked together more closely to eliminate some of the friction. They agreed that if they could accomplish that, both companies could become much more efficient and successful and do a better job of satisfying our customers. Shortly after that canoe trip John Smale, then chairman and CEO of Procter & Gamble, called Sam and invited him and several of us to come to Cincinnati, sit down with his executive team, and see if the two companies could reach some common ground.

Life is much less a competitive struggle for survival than a triumph of cooperation and creativity.

—Fritjof Capra

As a side note, this momentous meeting almost didn’t happen. John Pepper, also a former CEO of P&G, shared with me an incident that occurred several days before the meeting was to take place. Sam called John Smale

and suggested that we probably couldn’t make the trip because it was going to cost too much. It so happened that the hotel that P&G had reserved for us to stay in was going to cost over one hundred dollars per night, per person, and Sam said that was too expensive. (That’s how serious Sam was about the corporate culture of conserving costs!) Smale said he would look into the matter and call back. Several hours later he reached Sam and said they had found another hotel and it was only going to cost fifty-nine dollars. Sam agreed we would come then. In truth, P&G had picked up the other half of the bill.

With that issue resolved, Sam and five or six of us flew to Cincinnati and spent several days reviewing the issues and discussing possible solutions. We reached a point where we all had to agree that the basic problem was a lack of trust. Fundamentally, we didn’t trust them, and they didn’t trust us.

The issue wasn’t the integrity of either side, but the fact that the people in both companies were unwilling to share any company information with the representatives of the other company. They did things their way, we did things our way, and neither of us was even willing to consider changing. Both companies were suspicious of the other’s goals and motives, carefully guarding strategies or any information that we each thought represented a competitive advantage. After all, if we told them things about our operation, they might share that information with our competitors.

We came to the conclusion that we were not really adversaries. If the people in both companies could be more open, communicate more effectively, and develop more of a trust relationship, we could have a significant positive impact on both of our businesses. Ultimately we were not competitors; we were on the same side, both wanting to sell more of our merchandise to our customers.

Dinner with Jack Welch and GE

The second event, which happened within a few months of our visit with Procter & Gamble, was a dinner meeting that Sam and several of us attended with Jack Welch and a few other General Electric (GE) executives. During dinner,we discussed how we could simplify our business relationship. David

Glass, the Wal-Mart president and CEO, suggested that an ideal picture might look like this:Wal-Mart would capture the sale by item at the cash register in all stores of every item GE supplied to Wal-Mart. Based on that data, the

Wal-Mart computer would calculate and transmit an order for merchandise to GE over the telecommunications network on Monday directly into its computer. GE would process the order that night on its computer, fill the order on Tuesday, and ship the merchandise to us on Wednesday. We would receive the merchandise on Thursday, wire-transfer a check to GE on Friday, and reconcile any differences at the end of the quarter. We agreed that this process would require a new level of trust between the people in both of our organizations—but it was well worth a try

When the board asked me to take over the bankrupt Fruit of the Loom, one of the first phone calls I received was from Wal-Mart asking me what they (Wal-Mart) could do to help.

—Dennis Bookshester, CEO of Turtle Wax

Revolutionary Transformation

Today, neither of these meetings and developments sounds like a big deal. But in the late 1980s, these were revolutionary ideas. To our knowledge, no one had truly tested these waters on a large scale. As a result of these two separate meetings, we eventually changed the way we transacted business with all of our suppliers. We worked closely with Procter & Gamble and GE to simplify the processes and enhance relationships, which started us on a thought process of examining everything that we had done in the past with all suppliers.

Wal-Mart has always dealt with our company consistently and fairly.During the twenty-plus years that Oil-Dri has been a Wal-Mart vendor, we have found them to be among the most ethical companies with whom we do business. They have made us a better company as we have grown our systems and professionalism as they have grown.Oil-Dri is proud to be a partner with Wal-Mart.

—Daniel Jaffee President and CEO of Oil-Dri