SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Career Development
SUMMARY: Walmart implemented programs to enable associates to purchase company stock, receive performance-based incentives, and be promoted from within, fostering a sense of engagement and growth opportunities.
KEYWORDS: employee stock ownership, performance-based incentives, internal promotion, Walton Institute, talent development
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

and true to Sam’s vision, at a discount price. So they put in place a program for all associates to buy Wal-Mart stock through a payroll-deduction plan.

They could choose to set aside any amount of money and have it invested in company stock at a discounted price and not have to pay any brokerage fees. Over the years, thousands and thousands of associates—consistently more than 50 percent of all Wal-Mart associates—have taken advantage of this plan as a way to share in the growth of the company.

Through the years,Wal-Mart leadership added numerous benefit plans, as well as cash incentive plans to make it possible for associates to receive additional income based on the performance of their stores, clubs, distribution centers, dispatch offices, and the entire company. Management added all of these programs to reward the associates for their performance and the success of the company, which fostered a greater sense of engagement and involvement.

Where Do Tomorrow’s Leaders Come From?

We want all levels of Wal-Mart associates to be as engaged as possible, including and not least of all, our management team. In order to prepare management talent for a growing company, we came up with a simple plan to grow our own management team. We believed in and followed the practice of promoting from within. This does not mean that we didn’t hire anyone from outside the company—we sprinkled some in to meet specific needs and also recruited from college and university campuses. But we always encouraged our hourly associates to consider the opportunity to move into management.

Candidates for promotion needed to be ambitious, work hard, learn their jobs, be team players, live out the culture, and demonstrate leadership ability.

We also believed in what I will call “cross-pollination.” That meant that promotional opportunities weren’t limited to one’s store or department but included other areas of the company, including logistics, Sam’s Club, Neighborhood Markets, or the International Division. This expanded the opportunities for advancement within the company immensely and was a great motivational tool for our associates. We wanted our associates to grow and be all that they could be.

As a result of our policy of in-house promotion, over three-quarters of the men and women managing Wal-Mart stores today began as hourly associates with the company. I know of no other company that even comes close to accomplishing a feat like that.

Responsibility for Self-Development

If an organization plans to promote people from within on a continuing basis, the associates need help in developing their God-given talent. In 1983, we launched the Walton Institute for the purpose of helping all levels of management in all divisions become better leaders. The purpose of the institute was not improving job skills but rather helping our people develop leadership and interpersonal skills. In addition, instructors placed a great deal of emphasis on living out the Wal-Mart culture. Over the years, more training programs have been developed for this purpose, including a computer-based learning program so that people could be taught the technical skills right in their own stores or clubs.

An organization has a responsibility to develop its people, not just in technical skills but also in the area of leadership. There is no doubt in my mind that some individuals seem to be especially gifted with a natural talent to lead. I am a strong believer, however, that leadership skills can be learned. I purposely choose the word “learned” rather than the word “taught.”By that I mean it is not in the teaching that someone can develop an understanding of a principle or concept—it is in the learning.

Much of the training we did in Wal-Mart was not focused on teaching but rather on helping people to learn. Even our skill training was called CBL— computer-based learning.

If you accept that as an approach, your focus must be on the individual taking the initiative to learn everything he or she can. A company can do only so much in preparing associates for greater responsibility. As fast as Wal- Mart has grown, there has been a continuing need to produce more and more leaders. The opportunity was always there for everyone, but it was up to the individual to be prepared. I once heard a speaker say, “It’s better to be prepared and not get the opportunity than to get the opportunity and not be

prepared.”

Wal-Mart provided schooling, mentoring by existing leaders (i.e., store managers, district managers, regional vice presidents, and so on), Dale Carnegie Training courses in the home office, evaluations focused on helping individuals grow, and a constant reminder and encouragement of the opportunities that existed in Wal-Mart.

One example of how we mentored young leaders and helped them own their personal development was through a program Sam initiated and called the “Store Within a Store.” Every month each department manager in all our stores would receive a computer report of the key numbers in his or her department—sales, markdowns,margin, inventory, and so on. The store manager—sometimes with the district manager present—would sit down and review the numbers with each individual and develop merchandise plans for the upcoming months. The idea was that department managers should look at their areas as though they were stand-alone stores. This was a great learning experience, and it allowed department managers to interact with leadership on strategic issues.

Another opportunity for development comes through reading books, which is an excellent way to learn more about leadership. I always encouraged our management team to develop their own library of good business and personal development books—and to actually read as many as they possibly could.