SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Business Growth
SUMMARY: The text describes the growth and expansion of Wal-Mart, driven by Sam Walton's leadership, innovation, and commitment to his team and customers.
KEYWORDS: Wal-Mart, Retail Expansion, Entrepreneurship, Team Building, Customer Service
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Wal-Mart was born.

The Dream Continues to Grow

Not giving up meant that Sam had to acquire computers, warehouses, trucks, and many other things that were all brand-new to his business. It also meant the birth of Wal-Mart discount stores. It was a big risk, it took a lot of courage and openness to change, but he and his associates made it work.

Little by little, the dream would grow one successful Wal-Mart at a time.

In early 1971, Sam wrote to all Wal-Mart associates and said:

If any generalization is true of retailing in the 70s, it would have to be that our business is    one of constant change. Increasingly, this is just as true in our small trade centers as well as   in the larger metropolitan areas. Consequently, it is most important that all of us in Wal-    Mart be alert and curious to new trends and developments in retailing. It is imperative that each new process be studied and analyzed thoroughly to see if we can adopt the idea for Wal- Mart, but the total key for our stores is that we retain our philosophy of being not only the dominant store in our areas, but more importantly, that we do the best job of anybody around in rendering effective, friendly customer service.

Sam continued to be involved in the stores, with his people, in his community, and in his church. He remained a common man, always giving credit to others for everything he achieved. But he refused to be complacent

—he was always challenging, always thinking, always experimenting, always raising the bar, and always striving for the impossible.

Our goals and achievements for 1971 have all been met and exceeded as of this date. Most people and other companies would have said that what we have done is impossible. I’m convinced that nothing is impossible for this Wal-Mart team and that we’ll again meet these goals and challenges as projected for 1972. This can be done. Again, let me thank each of you for what you have done to make 1971 our biggest and best year yet. I’m confident 1972 will be even better. Together we can do it.

He continued to be the leader and servant, the student and teacher, the preacher and critic, the coach and cheerleader.

We have quite a company. As I stated this week in New York, it is one composed of exceptionally interested, enthused, and dedicated people all determined to achieve our Wal- Mart program, and make it totally the best retail chain in the United States. More and more our long range sales goal of one billion dollars by 1981 looks attainable and entirely likely  as we build a broader base, increase competence of all management levels, and create a company and program that is not only interesting and challenging for all of us but also creates good benefits and economic security for all families. Our policy of being fair and

honest with each other must continue at every level.Nothing can stop Wal-Mart as we maintain this team spirit, morale, and continue to work together. That is an unbeatable combination. Let’s keep the doors open. It will be tough but I’m confident.

The dream kept growing and with that growth came many changes—the stores looked better and better and service to the customers improved as Sam and his team worked to perfect all aspects of operations and merchandising. Change wasn’t easy, even for Sam. In change there are always risks. Every organization wants to grow, but there are just as many if not more risks when a company gets bigger. And for a company built on a sense of family, it’s possible to lose the personal touch with the people and with the customers as well. Recognizing that, Sam wrote:

When people are through changing, they’re through.

—Bruce Barton

Sometimes I wish we were the small company we once were not so long ago, so I could personally see all of you occasionally, and thank you for the good job being done. It’s much more difficult now to get around, but it doesn’t mean that any of us in management  appreciate any of you any less than ten years ago. Our situation is different in 1975 than in 1965. Our company has increased in size over 25 times in ten years with our total personnel increasing from about 250 in 1965 to approximately 6,500 in 1975.

Yes, the company grew and the better it became, the bigger it got. No matter how big Wal-Mart became, though, Sam shared his dream with all of us one by one, and we all became a part of it. Near the end of his life he wrote to his associates again:

I had no vision of the scope of what I would start, but I always had confidence that as long as we did our work well, and were good to our customers, there would be no limits to us. I    would like to be remembered as a good friend to everyone whose lives I’ve touched as their friend, as someone who meant something to them or helped them in some way. That is important. I have such strong feelings for the folks in our company. They have meant so much to me.

He led us to become the most successful retail company in the United States—and the world. In the end, he did receive honor and glory from the world over, including several U.S. presidents; he did make friends across the land and was recognized by sight and name probably as much as any single man in the United States. So, you see, the dream—to do good for others— resulted in what others often dream about.

If Sam Were Here Today