SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Corporate Culture and Cost Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of symbols in teaching principles, the dangers of bureaucracy in a growing business, and the need to control costs while maintaining a people-oriented culture.
KEYWORDS: Corporate culture, Cost management, Bureaucracy, Symbols, Growth strategy
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

had breakfast together, and spent our days in meeting on a growth strategy for Mexico.

Imagine what it meant that the chairman of the board would hang out after business hours

and exchange ideas with a young, developing director!

The Power of a Symbol

“Two to a room” is a symbol of our cost consciousness. It is constant

reminder to our associates when they travel that they must watch their

expenses in everything they do.

I believe that symbols are a very important way of teaching principles.

Symbols can present a mental picture of an important idea or concept. The

yellow smiley face that we use a great deal in Wal-Mart promotion is an

example of how we all should look. It is a reminder of friendliness and

treating others with kindness and respect. Another example of a meaningful

symbol is the Wal-Mart cheer. People outside the company don’t understand

the relevance of a cheer in a business—it sounds like high school stuff. The

cheer, however, is a way of having a little fun and at the same time bringing

everyone together in a form of celebrating our company. It signifies unity and

helps us to begin each day and each meeting on a happy note.

We use many other symbols of cultural issues at Wal-Mart, including the

modest office decor, the people-greeters, the posting of the Wal-Mart stock

price in the home office and every store and club every day, and many other

things big and small. I believe that many leaders underuse symbols as a tool

that offers a wonderful opportunity to reinforce the culture of any

organization.

The Dangers of Bureaucracy

As a business grows larger, it is even more important to control costs, but

at the same time, it gets harder. The further the leadership gets away from the

details of the operations, the greater the chance for slippage. Unnecessary

costs creep into a business in many ways. Everyone needs an assistant, the

assistants need assistants, and instead of managers being generalists, they call

for more specialists. At this point, the bureaucracy has arrived. We install

computers to reduce the clerical work but don’t reduce the payroll

accordingly—we need people to read and interpret the myriad of reports. We

grow larger, and the bureaucracy grows faster than the sales. The bureaucrats

add to the workload by developing new reports that everyone needs to

receive. The list of people who receive reports becomes endless. Before long,

the bureaucracy is full-blown and costing the company money.

Bureaucrats not only add to the payroll and create additional work, but

they also stifle innovation and initiative so that it takes longer to get things

done. A U.S. congressman spoke at a Saturday morning meeting many years

ago and shared his view on bureaucrats. He compared bureaucrats to

cockroaches. He said that “it isn’t what they eat that’s the problem, it’s what

they get into and mess up that’s the real concern.”

Bureaucracy is clearly a danger to the cost structure of any organization.

At Wal-Mart, it was a constant battle to keep bureaucracy from growing.

Management carefully scrutinized all departmental expenses monthly and

challenged all recommended changes in structure. Periodically, we called for

a moratorium on hiring any additional people and a reassessment of staffing

in each department to determine what work could be eliminated. A basic

principle that we followed was that you can’t reduce costs without

eliminating the work. It’s really remarkable how many expenses are

unnecessary and how much waste can build up in any organization over time.

We found that even with constant diligence, periodic soul-searching was

essential.

Continuing to keep pressure on costs in every area requires constant

discipline because they slip in from everywhere. In order to maintain that

discipline, a leader must pay attention to details, keep in touch with people,

and continually monitor execution at all levels.

Throughout this book, the subject of culture keeps coming up. It is

inevitable. I can’t share the Wal-Mart success story with you without the

constant reminder that at the heart of everything we have done is this special

and unique culture. Without a firm conviction over the years in senior

leadership to maintain and strengthen that culture, there is no doubt in my

mind that we could never have accomplished what we have.

Genuine success does not come from proclaiming our values, but from consistently putting them into

daily action.

—Ken Blanchard

I strongly believe that any individual and any organization are capable of

doing the impossible, if they choose to. At the same time, I believe that it

won’t just happen by itself. I only wish that all leaders could understand the

incredible impact that a carefully thought-out and consistently demonstrated

culture can have on the results of their organization. I’m talking about a

culture rooted in sound core values, totally focused on the customer as the

reason for being in business, and recognizing the importance of treating their

people with the respect and dignity that they deserve.

Sam’s Eagle Eye

Shortly after I retired, I received this e-mail from Harry Jordan, a Wal-

Mart buyer. He describes, very effectively, how seemingly little things can

impact the performance of a large company on a continuing basis and how

the culture is preserved from one generation to another.

Dear Don,

I read a story today in the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette newspaper on a recent speech you

made to a business group in Little Rock. Your topic concerning Mr.Sam’s “Eagle Eye” for

detail brought back an experience I feel compelled to share. The memory that came to mind

occurred a few years ago while I was working as a Wal-Mart Buyer in the Automotive

Electronics category. I happened to be in the modular layout room one day when your

assistant somehow tracked me down by phone and asked, “Do you have a few minutes to

come see Don this afternoon?” The thought that a person at your level of responsibility in a