SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Supplier Relationship Management
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart and its suppliers revamped their relationship to focus on customer needs, streamline communication and processes, and support local businesses.
KEYWORDS: supplier relationship, communication, process improvement, local suppliers, customer focus
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

—Albert Einstein

This began an ongoing dialogue, a series of meetings between the senior

leaders of Wal-Mart and our suppliers, in order to rethink and alter the nature

of our relationship. Our suppliers began to see that their customers were not

Wal-Mart and other retailers, but the people who bought the merchandise off

our counters in the stores and clubs. Suppliers began to talk about customers

as real live people, instead of “consumers.”We worked together on what was

good for our customers.

A beginning point in revamping our relationship with suppliers was to

review and change the way we ordered merchandise, followed by a review of

the entire buying process. Previously, our buyer interfaced with the supplier’s

salesperson, and all communication flowed between those two people. The

problem was that our buyer knew our business from the all-important

merchandising standpoint, but he or she did not fully understand important

details about technology, logistics, accounting, or other functions in Wal-

Mart. The same was true about their salespeople, which left us with continual

struggles and problems in other functional areas of the company.

Our suppliers’ computers were operating one way; our computers were

operating in a completely different way. Their accounts-receivable

department was operating under certain rules; our accounts-payable

department was operating under another set of rules.

Our orders called for suppliers to ship fifteen to twenty loads of

merchandise to one of our distribution centers once every two weeks, but we

could unload only one of their trucks a day. We sent our orders to them on

our forms and they had to reenter identical information on their forms and

then into their computers. Not only did this redundancy create unnecessary

work and expense, but many human mistakes were made in the translation

process. The exact same thing was taking place on the invoicing side. This

caused a lot of confusion and frustration at both ends.

When we were willing to sit down together and look at these processes

with a critical eye, it was obvious that what we were doing didn’t make

sense. After extensive dialogue about ways to create a better, more seamless

flow between us and our suppliers, our first change was to stop funneling all

communications through one person at each company and find appropriate

ways to get the right people talking to the right people to solve problems. We

developed cross-functional teams with many of our suppliers. The teams

worked together on how to simplify and streamline our communications.

Wal-Mart and Local Suppliers

• Wal-Mart buys the vast majority of its merchandise from well over ten

thousand U.S. suppliers. This includes some of the largest manufacturers in

the world as well as small, even “mom and pop” suppliers, small farmers,

and minority and women-owned businesses.

• Buying from these small local businesses supports Wal-Mart’s Store of the

Community concept, which showcases local products from local

producers. For example, Wal-Mart buys apples in Washington, pumpkins

in Illinois, bacon in Minnesota, pies in California, household chemicals in

Colorado, barbecue sauce in Missouri, bedroom slippers in Ohio, and

many other products too numerous to mention.

• Wal-Mart has established a special U.S. export office to send goods to our

stores overseas. Last year, Wal-Mart sold more than $2 billion in U.S.

goods in Wal-Mart stores in other countries.

Because we established a new relationship model with our suppliers, now

our technology people work directly with their technology people, our

logistics people work directly with their logistics people, and our accounts-

payable department works directly with their accounts-receivable department.

We streamlined both ordering and invoicing processes by transmitting orders

and invoices electronically, directly into each other’s computers, and letting

the computers do the translating.

Instead of shipping fifteen or twenty truckloads every two weeks, we

agreed it would be much more efficient to spread out the merchandise flow

and ship just what we could handle at a given time. As a direct result of this

change, we eliminated countless errors and reduced the frustration level in

both companies, and we have also significantly improved the flow of

merchandise through the supply chain. We have reduced inventory levels

significantly and improved the “in stock” rate in our stores for our customers.

Finally, we drove millions of dollars of cost out of the process for both the

suppliers and Wal-Mart and have been able to reduce thousands of our prices

for our customers.

Our success in establishing a trust relationship led us to develop what we

described in chapter 8, a system we call Retail Link. We gave our suppliers

direct access to our computers to follow and analyze on their PC screens the

retail sales of all their items by store, district, region, state, or the whole

country. They are now able to track daily sales on any item in any location

and test new items anywhere in the country and get instant feedback on how

those items are selling in the stores. We trusted that our suppliers would not

share the information with our competitors, which provided a whole new

foundation for our relationship with our suppliers.

No One Wins Until Everyone Wins

A fundamental element of a trust relationship that needs to be underscored

is that the relationship must be beneficial for all parties involved. No one

wins until everyone wins. Again, the supplier has to win, the retailer has to

win, and the customer has to win—and we all won. In 1987, before we

embarked on this relationship with Procter & Gamble, our annual purchases

from them were approximately $350 million. In the year ending January 31,

2004, these purchases surpassed $8 billion.

Another dramatic example was what happened to the inventory turns of

some items. In 1987, inventory turns on disposable diapers was

approximately twenty times per year. As a result of Wal-Mart and Procter &

Gamble’s working together, the number of turns was increased to seventy-

five times per year. This type of improvement would appear to be impossible,