SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Organizational Culture
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of creating a shared vision, values, and expectations across an organization to build a successful company culture.
KEYWORDS: vision, values, shared expectations, leadership, organizational culture
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

If you don’t know where you’re going, it doesn’t matter which way you go.

—Lewis Carroll

Just to show how audacious his vision was on that day in 1971, the following chart shows the sales of some of the well-known retailers in that

same year:

Wal-Mart, then only the thirty-sixth-largest discount chain in the country, passed all of those other retailers one by one, eventually becoming the largest company in the world. It could happen only in America.

For reflection and action:

How do you go about creating a vision? Unless you are awakened in the middle of the night by a dream that presents to you a magnificent vision of your future, there’s probably no better place to begin than with questions.

So where are you going? Based on your activities and efforts today, where are you taking your department, your organization, your industry? What is it that you really want to become? How do you want to look ten years from now? What is the picture of the future that inspires you—and the people around you? Do you ever stop and notice the little things that others simply ignore?

But don’t stop with questions. Capture your answers in writing with a notebook or journal and then develop a plan.

Chapter 3

The Power of Culture

Every great institution is the lengthened shadow of a single man. His character determines the character of his organization.

—Ralph Waldo Emerson

Wal-Mart Way Principle #3

To build a great company, you must create a culture where everyone shares the same values, purposes, and expectations of success.

Everyone knows what separates Wal-Mart from the competition. It’s everyday low prices, right? Not so fast!

When I first arrived at Wal-Mart in 1980, that was my assessment too. But it didn’t take me very long to discover a much more profound and powerful reality that Sam had set in motion. As you read this chapter, I hope that you, too, discover what I believe is the most important factor in the future success of your company or organization.

John Gardner, former secretary of health education and welfare, founder of Common Cause, a nonpartisan organization that holds elected officials accountable, and author of numerous books on leadership, has a profound understanding of the most important responsibilities leadership requires, while offering unique insights into the essence of culture:

A great civilization is a drama lived in the minds of a people. It is a shared vision, shared norms (values), shared purposes, and shared expectations! In any healthy, reasonably coherent community, people come to have shared views concerning right and wrong, better and worse. (On Leadership)

Shared vision, shared values, shared expectations, shared purposes, shared

views—obviously, the key word here is “shared.” In other words, Gardner believes that a successful culture is one where the people are united by common standards, and those standards provide the basis for all their actions. And that’s where the role of leadership—from the boardroom to the frontline department manger—becomes so crucial. It is the leader’s responsibility to “tell the story,” “paint the picture,” “walk the talk” of what is truly important to an organization. In great organizations, a leader’s words and actions model what really matters, and as a result, everyone gets on the same page and pulls together.

One of the keys—I believe, the key—to Wal-Mart’s success story has been our commitment to forge common ground among the hundreds of thousands of people in the organization. To a remarkable degree, associates across demographic lines of gender, age, race, creed—and even across international borders—share the same vision, the same values and beliefs, the same high expectations and purposes. Why? Because Wal-Mart works hard on nurturing a unique culture.

In an age that celebrates differences and diversity (often appropriately and for many good reasons), I am still convinced that the most successful organizations define, emphasize, and celebrate common ground. How is your company’s culture today? Be assured, you will either create a corporate culture on purpose—or your associates will accomplish the task for you, both with and without your input!

Author Note: From the time I joined the team, I felt a keen sense of responsibility to preserve Wal-Mart culture, that exceptional commitment to doing what is right, especially after Sam passed away. But in truth, while leadership must set the direction, in the end, culture is everyone’s responsibility. One of the most powerful dynamics for Wal-Mart is that the culture is so deeply ingrained in so many of our people that it continues to be passed on to new associates, one person and one day at a time. My prayer is that Wal-Mart associates will   never quit fighting to keep the culture alive, that they will always maintain their zeal for treating people right. That is what Sam would have wanted.

So What Is Culture?

When we observe the different nations in the world, we readily see how differently they think and act from one another—and from our own nation. We find this reality to be both fascinating and, at times, difficult to

understand—or, in a few cases, even frightening. The key to understanding any culture is discovering the dominant belief system that its people share.

In the same way, companies and organizations experience and express different cultures on the basis of their different belief systems. Some people attempt to minimize the notion of belief in general, but I would argue that all of us, whether or not we are religiously minded, hold certain foundational beliefs that affect our every relationship and decision.

Culture is the personality of an organization. Therefore, culture governs much of how people think, act, interact with others, and do their work. It is extremely powerful in determining the present and continuing success and the future direction of any organization. Culture can literally determine whether a company has a future.

A Culture of the Can-Do Attitude