SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Business Growth and Expansion
SUMMARY: This text describes Walmart's remarkable growth from $1.25 billion in sales in 1980 to $256 billion by 2004, highlighting the power of vision, communication, and believing in the impossible.
KEYWORDS: business growth, expansion, Walmart, vision, communication
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

When I joined the company in the first quarter of 1980,Wal-Mart had just completed a year with sales of $1.25 billion, Wal-Mart’s first billion-dollar year.

When Sam passed away twelve short years later, in April 1992, our sales had reached $44 billion, making us the largest retailer in the world.

By the end of fiscal year 2004, sales topped $256 billion—an increase of

$212 billion over the past twelve years. We had become the largest company in the world. Truth is stranger than fiction, and what I just described to you is impossible. But we did it.

The concept of “impossible” can do funny things to our thinking. We really do limit in our minds what people working together can accomplish in

organizations. The extraordinary, the “impossible” things that Wal-Mart accomplished were done by ordinary people. I don’t believe that such results are limited to Wal-Mart. I believe there are hundreds and thousands of stories just waiting to be written by organizations and companies who have leaders that inspire people to accomplish things that seem impossible. The only way that can happen, though, is if the leader believes it is possible—has even a mustard seed of faith—and can convince his people that the seemingly impossible is indeed possible.

Passion for Excellence Means Communicating, Communicating, Communicating . . .

Every year we had a different annual theme, which we introduced at the year-beginning meeting held in late January. But our theme didn’t fade away when the banner came down; we repeated it over and over again throughout the year. These themes were more than neat little slogans—they were really a focus point to drive home an idea, a rallying point to engage everyone’s thoughts. It was an emotional appeal to help us realize we could achieve even higher goals than we had in the past. It was even a way to share our beliefs with everyone in the company—to communicate our culture—and bring everyone in alignment with a high goal. Several examples of the themes for past years are:

We’ve Only Just Begun! You Can Do It!

Yes We Can!

Let’s Make It Happen! It’s My Wal-Mart!

In 2001, our theme was “Imagine the Possible.” Some of us were like little kids getting in trouble for having too-active imaginations. (Usually there was some mischief involved.) All of us have been told in one form or another to get our heads out of the clouds and our feet on the ground. I think to succeed in business and life that there are times when we need do the exact opposite: get our heads back in the clouds and our feet off the ground. In other words,

stretch your mind and just imagine, envision, dream of how much better you and your organization can be than you are right now. When was the last time you sent your mind wandering beyond today to imagine a brighter tomorrow? Let your mind go, dream a little, and you might just discover that anything is possible.

Too many leaders are afraid of letting their minds wander too far; they put fences around their dreams. If you want to accomplish great things, you must dare to venture beyond today’s realities. The thinking behind “Imagine the Possible” was that we needed to push even further, beyond the self-imposed limits of our current thought processes and previous experiences. My first thought was Imagine the possible by striving for the impossible, because that’s what we had actually done in the past; why couldn’t we do it in the future?

In preparation for my talk to all our store managers about the new theme, I looked the word impossible up in dictionary and found the following definition: “Felt to be incapable of being done, attained, or fulfilled.”

The key phrase in this definition that jumped off the page to me was “felt to be.” There have been many events in history that people perceived to be impossible but then accomplished. Consider:

The Pyramids of Egypt

We still don’t know how they were built. How did they get those big rocks on the top levels? Modern engineers still marvel. This was an unbelievable accomplishment for the ancient Egyptian civilization.

Beethoven’s Fifth

In 1804, Beethoven completed his Fifth Symphony in spite of the fact that he was completely deaf. He went on to write several other symphonies after losing his hearing. How is it possible to write music when you are deaf? You can’t do that—wouldn’t you have to know how it sounds? He accomplished what seemed to be impossible.

Breaking the Four-Minute Mile

Track athletes viewed running a mile in under four minutes as impossible. Some doctors believed that it was past the threshold of human potential and would lead to death. Then one day, a young medical student, Roger Bannister of England, ran a mile in 3:59:4. In the next several years, runners achieved the four-minute mile over three hundred times. Once Bannister broke through the barrier, people believed it could be done—and did it.

The Heart Transplant

When I was growing up, it seemed like science fiction to think that you could take a heart out of one person and transplant it into the body of another. Then,Dr. Christiaan Barnard of South Africa did it. Today, organs are being transplanted hundreds and thousands of times a day all across the world.

Land a Man on the Moon

When I was a child, I read the popular comic strip Buck Rogers. Rogers wore a funny-looking outfit and traveled around in space in a shiny rocket. I liked reading Buck Rogers because it was like magic—the world of make- believe for young people. But later, the U.S. actually did it: we landed men on the moon and we got them back to Earth. In the 1950s two Harvard scientists conclusively proved that space travel was impossible (because of the weight of the fuel). Today we take space travel for granted.