SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Business Strategy and Growth
SUMMARY: The text discusses Wal-Mart's principles and how the company's success has led to increased public scrutiny and criticism from various stakeholders.
KEYWORDS: Wal-Mart, Business Principles, Public Scrutiny, Growth Challenges, Reputation Management
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Wal-Mart Way Principle #5

You will succeed when you make a commitment to help your customers succeed first.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #6

Achieving excellence becomes a reality when you set high expectations, humbly face and correct your mistakes, stay optimistic, and avoid the quicksand of complacency.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #7

Your success is in direct proportion to your ability to plan, monitor, and ultimately execute all phases of your business.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #8

To build a great company, you must actively and continually seek out, evaluate, and invest in the tools that best serve the people and aims of your organization.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #9

The most basic operations in your company represent tremendous opportunities for improvement, growth, and savings. Don’t overlook the obvious.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #10

When you create win-win relationships with your business partnerships based on trust and open communications, you maximize your potential for growth.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #11

The ongoing success of your organization is in direct proportion to your ongoing commitment to grow.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #12

When you cultivate a spirit of charitable giving and civic involvement within your organization, you exponentially increase your tangible and intangible returns—including the personal character of your team.

APPENDIX B

Perspective on External Criticism of Wal-Mart

As Wal-Mart has grown to become the largest company in the world, so too has the public focus on the company. Today,Wal-Mart is very likely the most visible and scrutinized company in the United States. Because of the company’s size and success, it has become a lightning rod for some of the most challenging issues we face as a society and country. Wal-Mart is featured prominently in the public debates on health care, world trade, revitalization of downtown areas, and even the free enterprise system itself. Moreover, now the company finds itself in a position where it is judged on a standard of perfection. Every mistake has the potential to appear on the evening news or on the front page of the local newspaper. To put it another way, with more than one million people working for Wal-Mart in the U.S., the company has become larger than many big cities. Can you imagine a city of one million people, for example, that is held to a standard of zero mistakes by its citizens?

In addition, like any successful company or organization, the company faces challenges from a host of detractors who want to slow or completely stop the company’s growth. In recent years, many of these have chosen to attack Wal-Mart’s reputation rather than trying to compete with the company at the retail level. These reputation attacks can take the form of lawsuits, negative coverage in the news media, laws and regulations written specifically with Wal-Mart in mind, and even organizing activity by labor unions in the company’s stores.

All this said, Wal-Mart leaders are the first to say the company is not perfect and needs to improve. This commitment to “continual improvement” was a personal priority for Sam Walton, and it remains an important part of the Wal-Mart culture today. Ironically, those who attack Wal-Mart will ultimately play a key role in making it a better company, and even a more successful retailer.

Recommended Reading

GOOD TO GREAT

Why Some Companies Make the Leap . . . and Others Don't

by Jim Collins

SOUL OF THE FIRM

by C. William Pollard

LEADERSHIP BY THE BOOK

Tools to Transform Your Workplace

by Ken Blanchard, Bill Hybels, and Phil Hodges

PRIMAL LEADERSHIP

Realizing the Power of Emotional Intelligence

by Daniel Goleman, Annie McKee, and Richard E. Boyatzis

LEADING CHANGE

by John P. Kotter

IF ARISTOTLE RAN GENERAL MOTORS

The New Soul of Business

by Thomas V. Morris

CREDIBILITY

How Leaders Gain and Lose It,Why People Demand It

by James M. Kouzes and Barry Z. Posner

THE LEADERSHIP ENGINE

How Winning Companies Build Leaders at Every Level

by Noel M. Tichy with Eli Cohen

THE FIVE TEMPTATIONS OF A CEO

A Leadership Fable

by Patrick M. Lencioni

AUTHENTIC LEADERSHIP

Rediscovering the Secrets to Creating Lasting Value

by Bill George

Notes

Chapter 7

Constance L. Hays, “The Wal-Mart Way Becomes Topic A in Business Schools,” New York Times, July 27, 2003.

Bradford C. Johnson, “Retail: The Wal-Mart Effect,” The McKinsey Quarterly, 2002, No. 1.

Chapter 8

Johnson, “Retail: The Wal-Mart Effect.”

Steve Berry, James Burrows Moffat, professors of economics, “Wal-Mart Is No Enemy—It’s a Boon for the City’s Shoppers,” Yale University’s Daily News, January 16, 2003.

Chapter 11

1. Richard Ernsberger Jr., “Wal-Mart World,” Newsweek,May 20, 2002.

Conclusion

1. Jim Collins, “Bigger, Better, Faster,” Fast Company, June 2003, page 74.

Founded in 1998, the Soderquist Center for Leadership and Ethics is a

not-for-profit organization located in Siloam Springs, Arkansas, and affiliated with John Brown University. The Center is named for Don Soderquist, who firmly believes that business ethics are not a luxury, but an essential element in creating a high-performance organization; he also understands that the responsibility for creating an ethical organization belongs to its senior leaders. The Center, which exists to equip men and women with the transforming power of ethical leadership, hosts retreats at its retreat center located on the shores of beautiful Beaver Lake in Northwest Arkansas for CEOs and other senior leaders to dialogue with their peers and explore how to become more effective and successful principled-centered leaders. In addition, retreats are held for high-potential and fast-track middle managers and senior leaders to significantly accelerate their development. By creating, developing, and implementing customized strategic planning, succession planning, strategic alignment sessions, and leadership development paths for organizations, their leaders, and their people, the Soderquist Center has become a catalyst for organizations that want to move from today’s reality to the unlimited possibilities of the future.

We invite you to explore our Web site: www.soderquist.org

If you enjoyed The Wal-Mart Way by Don Soderquist, consider these other quality leadership titles from Nelson Business:

THE FOUR ELEMENTS OF SUCCESS