SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Development and Training
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's approach to developing its associates through in-house promotion, training programs, and a focus on leadership and personal development.
KEYWORDS: in-house promotion, leadership development, personal responsibility, Walton Institute, computer-based learning
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

and be all that they could be.

As a result of our policy of in-house promotion, over three-quarters of the

men and women managing Wal-Mart stores today began as hourly associates

with the company. I know of no other company that even comes close to

accomplishing a feat like that.

Responsibility for Self-Development

If an organization plans to promote people from within on a continuing

basis, the associates need help in developing their God-given talent. In 1983,

we launched the Walton Institute for the purpose of helping all levels of

management in all divisions become better leaders. The purpose of the

institute was not improving job skills but rather helping our people develop

leadership and interpersonal skills. In addition, instructors placed a great deal

of emphasis on living out the Wal-Mart culture. Over the years, more training

programs have been developed for this purpose, including a computer-based

learning program so that people could be taught the technical skills right in

their own stores or clubs.

An organization has a responsibility to develop its people, not just in

technical skills but also in the area of leadership. There is no doubt in my

mind that some individuals seem to be especially gifted with a natural talent

to lead. I am a strong believer, however, that leadership skills can be learned.

I purposely choose the word “learned” rather than the word “taught.”By that I

mean it is not in the teaching that someone can develop an understanding of a

principle or concept—it is in the learning.

Much of the training we did in Wal-Mart was not focused on teaching but

rather on helping people to learn. Even our skill training was called CBL—

computer-based learning.

If you accept that as an approach, your focus must be on the individual

taking the initiative to learn everything he or she can. A company can do only

so much in preparing associates for greater responsibility. As fast as Wal-

Mart has grown, there has been a continuing need to produce more and more

leaders. The opportunity was always there for everyone, but it was up to the

individual to be prepared. I once heard a speaker say, “It’s better to be

prepared and not get the opportunity than to get the opportunity and not be

prepared.”

Wal-Mart provided schooling, mentoring by existing leaders (i.e., store

managers, district managers, regional vice presidents, and so on), Dale

Carnegie Training courses in the home office, evaluations focused on helping

individuals grow, and a constant reminder and encouragement of the

opportunities that existed in Wal-Mart.

One example of how we mentored young leaders and helped them own

their personal development was through a program Sam initiated and called

the “Store Within a Store.” Every month each department manager in all our

stores would receive a computer report of the key numbers in his or her

department—sales, markdowns,margin, inventory, and so on. The store

manager—sometimes with the district manager present—would sit down and

review the numbers with each individual and develop merchandise plans for

the upcoming months. The idea was that department managers should look at

their areas as though they were stand-alone stores. This was a great learning

experience, and it allowed department managers to interact with leadership

on strategic issues.

Another opportunity for development comes through reading books, which

is an excellent way to learn more about leadership. I always encouraged our

management team to develop their own library of good business and personal

development books—and to actually read as many as they possibly could.

One a week? One a month? I challenged them to set their own goals and stick

to them. I also encouraged them to return to their college days and underline

or highlight the points that made the biggest impression on them and to refer

back to those highlighted areas often. We routinely passed out copies of

excellent books to our five to six thousand leaders who attended the Wal-

Mart semi-annual corporate meetings.

In my opinion, the associates that were most successful over time were

those who were determined to learn all they could. I always encouraged our

associates to accept the personal responsibility to become sponges and absorb

all they could from watching others who were successful. Watch them, study

what they do and how they do it, and ask questions such as “Why?” Learn

both good skills to practice and bad practices to avoid by watching others.

One Person Can Make a Difference

Is there a better way to make people feel they are important than listening

to their ideas and then implementing them? Management constantly

encourages associates to share their ideas about how to improve the

company, reduce unnecessary costs, and satisfy the customers more

effectively. We have implemented thousands of these ideas over the years.

Some have been small and have impacted only a particular store, while others

have impacted systems company-wide, but all the ideas have made Wal-Mart

a better place to work and shop. Wal-Mart people were working on

continuous improvement before it was a management catchphrase coined by

the proponents of the Total Quality. It works, because it is just good common

sense.

The Impact of Leadership Attitude

I was working as the computer manager of a relatively small company.

One day our IBM salesman came in and told me that a company called Ben

Franklin was looking for someone to run its technology department. I decided

to check it out and went through the normal interview process. Several days

later, I received a call and was asked to come back in because the executive

vice president of the company wanted to talk to me. I was somewhat

surprised because back then computers weren’t a big deal, so I didn’t

understand why I was talking to the executive vice president of the company

when I wouldn’t even be working for him.

I went through the interview and didn’t feel that I did very well. The

drapes in his office—already dark with its mahogany paneling—were closed,