SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Organizational Culture Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of a strong organizational culture and attention to detail in maintaining Wal-Mart's success.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, attention to detail, leadership, customer focus, employee respect
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Continuing to keep pressure on costs in every area requires constant discipline because they slip in from everywhere. In order to maintain that discipline, a leader must pay attention to details, keep in touch with people, and continually monitor execution at all levels.

Throughout this book, the subject of culture keeps coming up. It is inevitable. I can’t share the Wal-Mart success story with you without the constant reminder that at the heart of everything we have done is this special and unique culture. Without a firm conviction over the years in senior leadership to maintain and strengthen that culture, there is no doubt in my mind that we could never have accomplished what we have.

Genuine success does not come from proclaiming our values, but from consistently putting them into daily action.

—Ken Blanchard

I strongly believe that any individual and any organization are capable of doing the impossible, if they choose to. At the same time, I believe that it won’t just happen by itself. I only wish that all leaders could understand the incredible impact that a carefully thought-out and consistently demonstrated culture can have on the results of their organization. I’m talking about a culture rooted in sound core values, totally focused on the customer as the reason for being in business, and recognizing the importance of treating their people with the respect and dignity that they deserve.

Sam’s Eagle Eye

Shortly after I retired, I received this e-mail from Harry Jordan, a Wal- Mart buyer. He describes, very effectively, how seemingly little things can impact the performance of a large company on a continuing basis and how

the culture is preserved from one generation to another.

Dear Don,

I read a story today in the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette newspaper on a recent speech you made to a business group in Little Rock. Your topic concerning Mr.Sam’s “Eagle Eye” for detail brought back an experience I feel compelled to share. The memory that came to mind occurred a few years ago while I was working as a Wal-Mart Buyer in the Automotive Electronics category. I happened to be in the modular layout room one day when your assistant somehow tracked me down by phone and asked, “Do you have a few minutes to come see Don this afternoon?” The thought that a person at your level of responsibility in a company as large as ours was calling me directly was frankly both thrilling and scary! As I jumped into my car and sped to the home office my mind raced with anticipation; was it my sales? My inventory? A supplier or store issue? What was so important that “Mr.

Soderquist”would take the time to ask to see me personally? As I sat down in front of your  desk after a cordial greeting, you might remember that you held up the package for one of my items and the conversation went something like this: “Harry, I bought this radar detector   cord the other day. The directions on the package say ‘refer to Figure B’—well, can you    show me where ‘Figure B’ is?”

I was stunned, not by the fact I made a mistake by not proofing my supplier’s packaging better, but because you cared enough to take the time to personally point this out. You were deeply concerned that it would be very confusing to a customer. This incredible attention to detail and the will to follow through and take action not only impacted me, but has been a real-life “teaching parable” that I’ve repeated many times since. Young buyers and new suppliers understand our unique culture better when they hear this story as an example of how everyone from the top down strives to understand the details of our business. Though I never had the privilege of seeing Mr. Sam’s passion for questioning the details in person, I want to thank you for serving as a personal example that I can share with others as we expand the Wal-Mart culture.

My success just evolved from working hard at the business at hand each day.

—Johnny Carson

For reflection and action:

Is your organization known for its follow-through and execution?

Do you inspect what you expect?

How aware are you of the various details that make your business work?

In your personal life, what are some ways you can improve on your follow-through and execution?

Chapter 8

Technology—the Ultimate Change Agent

Give me six hours to chop down a tree and I will spend the first four sharpening the axe.

—Abraham Lincoln

Wal-Mart Way Principle #8

To build a great company, you must actively and continually seek out, evaluate, and invest in the tools that best serve the people and aims of your organization.

It is the responsibility of every leader to maximize the contribution of every asset in the business. Generally, only a few of those assets have the potential to be significant drivers in the business and facilitate change throughout the enterprise. Technology and logistics (which I will discuss in the next chapter) are two such resources that have had a dramatic impact on the performance of Wal-Mart. They also represent the principle of teamwork between functional units in a business and the synergy that can result. While numerous articles have been written about Wal-Mart’s technology, few people recognize the significant role it has played in supporting the company’s total operation.

It would be wrong to begin this chapter without first talking about our associates in relation to technology. You may have noticed that Wal-Mart associates and Wal-Mart culture are the continuing themes woven throughout this book. From the beginning of our testing and use of computers, Sam insisted that all of our systems be people-supportive, not the other way around. Our goal has been to literally put the power of the computer into the hands of our associates in order to make their work more productive and to help them make well-informed decisions.