SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Technology Integration in Operations
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's strategic focus on using technology to automate and improve store operations, with the IT department as a key business partner.
KEYWORDS: technology integration, operational automation, business-IT partnership, continuous system refinement, systems leadership
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

We always focused our technological efforts on the areas of the business where they could make the greatest impact. We focused, therefore, on the automation of store operations—anywhere we could improve service to our stores and therefore to our customers. It was the responsibility of the operating departments to determine what the systems priorities for their department were. I’m sure this was very frustrating to many seasoned department managers, who already knew how things were supposed to be done and knew how to make things happen. Why fix something that isn’t broken? Who knows if this computer stuff will work anyway? But determining systems priorities was in their job description, so they did it.

Next, the operating departments partnered with the technology department to develop a basic design of a system and calculate the anticipated payback. Several times a year, senior leadership reviewed and approved these priorities and estimated paybacks.

After the system was completed and implemented, the operating

department compared the payback to the original estimate to insure that they were achieving the results anticipated and, if not, assess why. Based on that analysis, the department determined if any refinements were needed. As a matter of practice, we continuously made refinements to existing systems. As we developed new insights, we incorporated these ideas in order to improve the overall system.

One machine can do the work of fifty ordinary men. No machine can do the work of one extraordinary man.

Systems Associates as Business Leaders

—Elbert Hubbard

We believed it was important for the information-systems associates to be business leaders, not merely technicians. The executive responsible for technology was a member of the senior leadership team of the company—to my knowledge, we were the first major retailer to place someone at this level

—who participated in all of our meetings and stayed involved in all major business initiatives. The involvement and input from our tech staff on the front lines was extremely valuable in the decision-making process in areas where systems support would be needed. We were so fortunate, over the years, to have leadership in technology that was not only highly competent in the technical side but who also zealously focused on the needs of the business. Our information-systems associates have all been visionaries who anticipated the increasing growth of the business and prepared for the needs of tomorrow.

They also had an unusual and contagious sense of urgency in what they did, often causing the members of their entire department to think and act with the same intensity. Anytime someone brought up a problem or issue related to technology in a meeting, it was not uncommon to see one of the systems associates get up and leave the meeting hurriedly, only to reappear before the meeting was over with either an answer or a commitment to find an answer before next week.

The systems associates developed systems by actually working in the areas that they were assigned, interacting directly with the people who would have

to make the systems work. They were assigned to a specific functional team, which allowed them to get a full understanding of the workings of that area, not just the technical side. And at least once a year, usually during the Christmas season when the stores were extremely busy, systems associates did something we called Store (or Club) Appreciation, where nearly all of the systems associates went out and worked in the stores and clubs, doing what the store associates had to do. This was a great education for them, and they learned about the practical application of the systems they developed.

Companies should strive to provide the individualized customer service of the old days, while embracing the technology of the future.

The commitments of Wal-Mart’s Information Systems Division were:

Know the Business.

Build It Right.

Show the Value.

Count on Us.

Teach Them.

At Wal-Mart, these five commitments were based on and underscored by the simple motto: “Think like a merchant.” Admittedly, this is an unusual statement for a technology department, but that’s how Wal-Mart’s technology workers stayed attuned to the needs and realities of our business. Information-systems workers tend to be bright, resourceful, and creative. I think that simple motto, “Think like a merchant,” is what made our information-systems associates the very best in the business.

Leading the Way

In addition to their detailed involvement in our business, our information- systems associates also have outstanding technical skills. Wal-Mart has been at the forefront of almost all technological innovation in the retail industry.

We were one of the first retailers to effectively use electronic scanners for

point-of-sale (POS) capture of item movement at the cash register.

We were leaders in the development of the Universal Product Code (UPC) and its placement on all merchandise, a process in which the manufacturer assigns a unique but standardized code to each individual item. This method has revolutionized order processing, scanning customers’ merchandise at the front registers, data collection, replenishment, and other aspects of business for every retailer and every manufacturer in the world. The retailing industry did not generally accept UPC in its early days. Many thought it would be impossible to get everyone to agree on standardization and that the method would ultimately cost too much for everyone to adopt. Our perseverance prevailed, though, and we made it happen. Today, nearly every retailer and manufacturer in the world uses UPC and recognizes it as the very foundation of all merchandise processing.

Wal-Mart was also the first retailer to extensively use Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) for transmission of purchase orders for merchandise directly to manufacturers, then receive their confirmation and invoices back from them electronically. This process has considerably reduced time, errors, and costs for the entire industry.

We’ve never shied away from a technological advance if it would help us fulfill the Wal-Mart vision. To quote once again from Bradford C. Johnson in the McKinsey Quarterly: