SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Technology Adoption
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's early adoption of technology, driven by founder Sam Walton's vision and leadership, has been a key factor in the company's success.
KEYWORDS: technology, innovation, retail, Sam Walton, Wal-Mart
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

investment has proven to be one of the more significant factors in our

success.

We don’t want to be famous for our technology.

We want to be famous for what our technology allows us to do.

—Linda Dillman, EVP & CIO, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

Technology has been an enabler and facilitator of change throughout Wal-

Mart. It has made it possible for us to dramatically change not only the way

we do business, but also the way business is conducted in the entire industry.

As a result of the support of senior leadership,Wal-Mart has consistently been

on the leading edge of practical technological breakthroughs in equipment,

software, and communications technology, a proactive approach that has kept

us far ahead of all competitors in taking advantage of the opportunities that

technology affords.

Sam’s Early Fascination with Computers

In his early days in the retail business, Sam was intrigued by the potential

of computers and how he could use them to improve his business. The day I

met him, he was visiting with Ben Franklin executives about the possibility

of franchising discount stores in small rural communities. It was 1963, and he

had already opened his first version of a discount store in Rogers, Arkansas.

I was the data-processing manager (that’s what they called technology

back then) at Ben Franklin Stores. He spent an entire afternoon with me

asking probing, insightful, and far-reaching questions about what computers

were capable of doing now and my opinion about how they could be used in

the future to manage a business more effectively. He was incredibly

inquisitive and took notes the entire time. After I got to know him, I realized

that was just a part of who he was—that he never stopped learning and

looking for ways to improve all areas of the business. Never.

What has amazed me as I have looked back at that experience was that

Sam seemed to have almost a sixth sense that technology would someday

have a major impact on business. You have to remember that in 1963 no one

could have conceived that computers would become so powerful and so cost-

effective that they would be driving major business functions. Sam, a small-

town business entrepreneur who began with the dream of owning his own

store, was at the forefront of the practical application of this important

business tool.

I have noted numerous times in this book that Sam hired for attitude as

much as he hired for ability. This included his filling of positions at executive

levels, which, as I’ve mentioned, were almost always in-house promotions. In

emphasizing Sam’s insistence on personal character and presentation among

Wal-Mart associates, I don’t want to give the misleading impression that he

was not highly driven by competence. He not only wanted things done right;

he wanted things done best. I believe that is why he was so far ahead of the

retail industry in looking for, testing, and adopting the use of cutting-edge

technology.

Progress is a tide. If we stand still we will surely be drowned. To stay on the crest, we have to keep

moving.

—Harold Mayfield

Senior Leadership Involvement

When I joined the Wal-Mart leadership team, we observed that in many

companies, the senior leadership members were not involved in systems

development—they just let the technicians decide what systems to develop

and institute. Why? New technology, almost by definition, is not easy to

understand. It is much easier for leaders to delegate the task of staying on top

of technological developments to specialists than do the hard work of asking

questions and participating in the steep learning curve. No wonder there was

a concurrent natural tendency for technical people, who were highly

compartmentalized in those days, to be captivated by the systems side of the

business but not have an understanding of the real needs of the company.

We always focused our technological efforts on the areas of the business

where they could make the greatest impact. We focused, therefore, on the

automation of store operations—anywhere we could improve service to our

stores and therefore to our customers. It was the responsibility of the

operating departments to determine what the systems priorities for their

department were. I’m sure this was very frustrating to many seasoned

department managers, who already knew how things were supposed to be

done and knew how to make things happen. Why fix something that isn’t

broken? Who knows if this computer stuff will work anyway? But

determining systems priorities was in their job description, so they did it.

Next, the operating departments partnered with the technology department

to develop a basic design of a system and calculate the anticipated payback.

Several times a year, senior leadership reviewed and approved these priorities

and estimated paybacks.

After the system was completed and implemented, the operating

department compared the payback to the original estimate to insure that they

were achieving the results anticipated and, if not, assess why. Based on that

analysis, the department determined if any refinements were needed. As a

matter of practice, we continuously made refinements to existing systems. As

we developed new insights, we incorporated these ideas in order to improve

the overall system.

One machine can do the work of fifty ordinary men. No machine can do the work of one extraordinary

man.

—Elbert Hubbard

Systems Associates as Business Leaders

We believed it was important for the information-systems associates to be

business leaders, not merely technicians. The executive responsible for

technology was a member of the senior leadership team of the company—to

my knowledge, we were the first major retailer to place someone at this level

—who participated in all of our meetings and stayed involved in all major

business initiatives. The involvement and input from our tech staff on the

front lines was extremely valuable in the decision-making process in areas

where systems support would be needed. We were so fortunate, over the

years, to have leadership in technology that was not only highly competent in