SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Private Label Product Development
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart expanded its private-label offerings to provide customers with quality products at lower prices, focusing on packaging to remove the stigma of inferior quality.
KEYWORDS: private label, product quality, customer value, pricing strategy, packaging design
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Anytime our sales fell below certain defined expectations, we had to remind ourselves that it wasn’t the customers or our competition that was to blame: it was us. As Julius Caesar said to Brutus in Shakespeare’s play: “The fault, dear Brutus, is not in the stars, but in ourselves.”

Addition of Private-Label Merchandise

Wal-Mart has always been, and most likely will remain, a retailer that supports national and international brand merchandise. In the minds of many consumers, brands are synonymous with quality. Therefore, our strategy was to offer primarily name brands at everyday low discount prices, thereby providing our customers with genuine value and with a direct comparison to our competitors. We were always proud of our prices and never shied away from comparisons.

In the early years, we offered a limited number of private-label items, but they represented only a small portion of our sales. The most familiar private-

label item we carried was dog food named Ol’ Roy after Sam Walton’s favorite hunting dog.

In the late 1980s, however, the prices of numerous national brand items were continuing to increase beyond levels that we believed to be reasonable. Even at our comparatively lower prices, we didn’t believe we were providing adequate value for our customers. Wal-Mart management determined that our customers should have the option to buy name-brand quality at a reasonable cost. As a result, the company embarked on the development of several lines of store-brand or private-label items that would be at least comparable to national brands in quality, but significantly lower in price. This was a major departure from the historical practice of private-label merchandise in retailing. The standard at that time for private-label merchandise was definitely lower price, but also significantly lower quality sold in unattractive packaging.

Each item Wal-Mart selected, whether it was food or one of the general merchandise categories, was sent out to independent testing laboratories to ensure that the quality met our specifications and our customers’ expectations. Only the highest level of quality was acceptable. In fact, we aimed to exceed the quality of the name-brand items whenever possible.

Packaging was also extremely important. With the package being the window to the product, we thought it critical that the package represent the same quality as the product inside. As a result of our rigorous efforts, we introduced to U.S. retailing private-label items with not only great quality and low prices, but also in extremely attractive packages with very colorful graphics.

Why do I keep emphasizing the packaging? What does that have to do with quality? What does that have to do with putting the customer first? What made this so important to Wal-Mart was that we were attempting to affirm that cost-conscious people deserve and can afford quality items,without the emotionally negative stigma associated with such inferior packaging.

Remember, Sam started in the retail industry when people living in small towns did not have an equal shopping experience with those living in larger metropolitan areas.

We carefully reviewed and tested each item during development to make sure that it was exactly what our customers were looking for and represented a genuine value. We added easy-open lids and zippers if needed and chose sizes that provided the best value relationship between quantity and price to the customer. Sam’s Clubs also began developing its own private-label merchandise and selling some of the Wal-Mart brands to their members.

As each of these fine brands continued to gain our customers’ acceptance and trust, sales increased, and as an unexpected outcome, our private labels became name brands. The next step was to introduce these offerings to our International Division, and they have likewise become international brands in countries all over the world. This has allowed us to expand our original goal of providing U.S. customers with a low-priced, quality alternative to name brands and giving that same opportunity to international customers worldwide. Today many of the company’s store brands, such as Ol’ Roy and Great Value, have become the number-one brands in the U.S. and are growing in acceptance globally.

Family Store Values

As a family store, we made merchandising decisions that cost us sales because they were in conflict with our values and our heritage. We chose not to carry certain magazines that we did not find appropriate for family. We decided that we should not stock CDs that had suggestive pictures on the cover or vulgar words in the lyrics; the same rule applied for games and videos. While this caused quite a stir in the record industry and the media at first, companies began producing edited versions that we would sell, and we even became involved in some of the coding and rating systems of the music and gaming industry. Eventually, other discounters chose to sell the edited versions in their stores as well.

Wal-Mart is the greatest thing that ever happened to low income Americans.They can stretch their dollars and afford things they otherwise couldn’t.

—W. Michael Cox, chief economist, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, the New York Times, December 2003

While you can’t please everyone, and I’m sure we have stocked

merchandise in our stores that we weren’t fully aware of content-wise, we have consistently attempted to honor the morals and sensibilities of the everyday individuals who shop in our stores and clubs. With our emphasis on being a family store, we were particularly sensitive in our merchandising decision not to embarrass parents who bring their children into our stores while shopping.

We Are All Merchants First—The VPI Contest