SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Communication and Feedback
SUMMARY: The text discusses Walmart's open-door policy and grassroots meetings to encourage direct communication and feedback from employees at all levels.
KEYWORDS: open-door policy, grassroots meetings, employee communication, employee feedback, Walmart culture
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

is going to work in this company, so hire him back. The second thing, Don: if

he is as bad as you say he is—and after talking to him, I’m not convinced he

is—then he is going to have an ongoing problem. If he does, then you can

terminate him again, and then he’ll stay gone.”

I had to do something I didn’t want to do. I had to go to Lee Scott, the head

of the trucking department at that time (and later the CEO of Wal-Mart) to

instruct him to hire the truck driver back. He asked the same questions of me

that I had asked of Sam. He definitely felt the same as I did, so I went

through the same routine with him that Sam had gone through with me. We

swallowed our pride, and the truck driver was hired back. We braced

ourselves for the repercussions. But the word spread through the entire

trucking department that the Open Door worked. And in this case it did. Of

course, in this incident, the door swung both ways—and the driver changed

his ways.

Some would say this undermined Lee’s and my authority and overall

weakened management. When I was telling Lee to unfire the driver, I was

one who believed that! But it dramatically reinforced an important ingredient

in the communication link with associates. A truck driver could have direct

access to the CEO. That’s really pretty special.

What’s Going on at the Grassroots Level?

Direct communication with our associates has always been a priority with

Wal-Mart, and we didn’t wait for them to come to us. We were always trying

to find new ways to hear what was on their minds.

In the 1970s, Sam initiated what became known as Grassroots Meetings.

Every department in the home office, stores, clubs, warehouses, dispatch

offices—all operating units—would have a meeting of all associates once

every year. The purpose of the meetings was not to talk to the associates but

rather to listen to them, to hear what was on their minds about the company.

We tried to have at least two levels of management present to listen to what

the associates had to say and try to answer any questions. We wanted to find

out: What can we do to make the company better? And what can we do to

help you do your job better?

Managers took notes at all meetings and posted key responses on the

bulletin boards. When a manager couldn’t answer the questions locally, he or

she forwarded them to the home office for responses. Many of the best ideas

we implemented as a company have come from those meetings. A good

example was the 401(k) program, which was the recommendation of the

associates.

Our point was not to just give our associates a single opportunity to

express concerns and ideas each year. The Grassroots Meetings were

designed to help all of our associates realize that they should be bringing

things up to their supervisors and managers throughout the year.

As we got larger and it became harder for everyone who wanted to speak

to do so, we added an anonymous opinion survey that contained over one

hundred questions on the full gamut of subjects affecting associates and the

company. We then shared a report broken down by operating unit and overall

company with all associates, and we covered key issues at the next

Grassroots—both the company’s strong points and weak points.

Our Grassroots Meeting system was just one of the many ways we tried to

communicate to our associates that we would do our best to take better care

of them if they would do their best to communicate with management.

Commitment or Compliance?

When workers are given their basic human dignity, they achieve all kinds

of great things for the company. But how do you measure a worker’s ability

to make an impact on a company?

The Gallup organization took a poll that surveyed thousands of workers in

the United States. The pollsters asked a number of questions about how the

people felt about their jobs and the companies they worked for. They found

interesting results relating to the extent to which workers felt engaged or

disengaged with their company:

• 29 percent were determined to be engaged—connected to company; work

with passion.

• 54 percent were not engaged—no energy or passion; going through

motions.

• 17 percent were disengaged—actively undermined accomplishments of

those engaged.

(Reported in “Getting Personal in the Workplace” by Steve Crabtree, Gallup

Management Journal, electronic edition, dated June 2004, pp. 1–2.)

If this survey is anywhere near indicative of how people really feel, it’s

very disappointing. If this same survey was conducted with Wal-Mart

associates, I can’t say exactly what the numbers would look like, but I am

convinced of several things. The number of associates who feel engaged in

the company is a lot more than 29 percent. I also know that the number of

associates who are not engaged or disengaged would be a lot less than 54

percent and 17 percent, respectively. And I’m sure that any company, no

matter how good it might be, will have some associates that will simply never

engage.

Just think: if the leadership of an organization could find a way to get

most, if not all of its people motivated, excited, and engaged, what a positive

impact that could have on the business. I believe that Wal-Mart and a number

of other good companies have demonstrated that it can be done. But it won’t

happen just because you want it to. Like everything else that is worthwhile,

you have to work at it.

How Do Employees Become Engaged?

The point of this chapter so far has been to say that the way to engage the

people in your organization begins with treating them right: giving them

respect and dignity, genuinely caring about them as individuals, and telling

them that they are important to the success of your organization (because