SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Supplier Relationship Management
SUMMARY: Walmart has maintained a consistent and ethical partnership with its supplier Oil-Dri, leading to mutual growth and improved operations through collaborative efforts.
KEYWORDS: supplier partnership, ethical business practices, operational efficiency, collaborative improvement, customer-centric focus
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Wal-Mart has always dealt with our company consistently and fairly.During the twenty-plus years that Oil-Dri has been a Wal-Mart vendor, we have found them to be among the most ethical companies with whom we do business. They have made us a better company as we have grown our systems and professionalism as they have grown.Oil-Dri is proud to be a partner with Wal-Mart.

—Daniel Jaffee President and CEO of Oil-Dri

As we saw the remarkable growth and improvements that happened by working closer with Procter & Gamble and GE, we realized that once we dealt with the issue of trust, it opened up entirely new ways of thinking and

new avenues of communication. So we began exploring and talking about a partnership relationship with our suppliers, a collaboration to improve our service to the stores, to reduce costs in the supply chain, to reduce prices to our customers, and to increase sales for both the supplier and Wal-Mart.

Every kind of peaceful cooperation among men is primarily based on mutual trust and only secondarily on institutions such as courts of justice and police.

—Albert Einstein

This began an ongoing dialogue, a series of meetings between the senior leaders of Wal-Mart and our suppliers, in order to rethink and alter the nature of our relationship. Our suppliers began to see that their customers were not Wal-Mart and other retailers, but the people who bought the merchandise off our counters in the stores and clubs. Suppliers began to talk about customers as real live people, instead of “consumers.”We worked together on what was good for our customers.

A beginning point in revamping our relationship with suppliers was to review and change the way we ordered merchandise, followed by a review of the entire buying process. Previously, our buyer interfaced with the supplier’s salesperson, and all communication flowed between those two people. The problem was that our buyer knew our business from the all-important merchandising standpoint, but he or she did not fully understand important details about technology, logistics, accounting, or other functions in Wal- Mart. The same was true about their salespeople, which left us with continual struggles and problems in other functional areas of the company.

Our suppliers’ computers were operating one way; our computers were operating in a completely different way. Their accounts-receivable department was operating under certain rules; our accounts-payable department was operating under another set of rules.

Our orders called for suppliers to ship fifteen to twenty loads of merchandise to one of our distribution centers once every two weeks, but we could unload only one of their trucks a day. We sent our orders to them on our forms and they had to reenter identical information on their forms and then into their computers. Not only did this redundancy create unnecessary work and expense, but many human mistakes were made in the translation

process. The exact same thing was taking place on the invoicing side. This caused a lot of confusion and frustration at both ends.

When we were willing to sit down together and look at these processes with a critical eye, it was obvious that what we were doing didn’t make sense. After extensive dialogue about ways to create a better, more seamless flow between us and our suppliers, our first change was to stop funneling all communications through one person at each company and find appropriate ways to get the right people talking to the right people to solve problems. We developed cross-functional teams with many of our suppliers. The teams worked together on how to simplify and streamline our communications.

Wal-Mart and Local Suppliers

Wal-Mart buys the vast majority of its merchandise from well over ten thousand U.S. suppliers. This includes some of the largest manufacturers in the world as well as small, even “mom and pop” suppliers, small farmers, and minority and women-owned businesses.

Buying from these small local businesses supports Wal-Mart’s Store of the Community concept, which showcases local products from local producers. For example, Wal-Mart buys apples in Washington, pumpkins in Illinois, bacon in Minnesota, pies in California, household chemicals in Colorado, barbecue sauce in Missouri, bedroom slippers in Ohio, and many other products too numerous to mention.

Wal-Mart has established a special U.S. export office to send goods to our stores overseas. Last year, Wal-Mart sold more than $2 billion in U.S. goods in Wal-Mart stores in other countries.

Because we established a new relationship model with our suppliers, now our technology people work directly with their technology people, our logistics people work directly with their logistics people, and our accounts- payable department works directly with their accounts-receivable department. We streamlined both ordering and invoicing processes by transmitting orders and invoices electronically, directly into each other’s computers, and letting

the computers do the translating.

Instead of shipping fifteen or twenty truckloads every two weeks, we agreed it would be much more efficient to spread out the merchandise flow and ship just what we could handle at a given time. As a direct result of this change, we eliminated countless errors and reduced the frustration level in both companies, and we have also significantly improved the flow of merchandise through the supply chain. We have reduced inventory levels significantly and improved the “in stock” rate in our stores for our customers. Finally, we drove millions of dollars of cost out of the process for both the suppliers and Wal-Mart and have been able to reduce thousands of our prices for our customers.