SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Corporate Culture and Cost Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses how the 'two to a room' policy at Wal-Mart is a symbol of the company's cost consciousness and promotes communication and learning among associates.
KEYWORDS: corporate culture, cost management, communication, learning, symbols
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Two to a room, though, has a more important place in Wal-Mart culture than just cutting costs. In many respects two to a room is a blending of several important elements in our culture. The emphasis on costs is obvious. Probably less obvious is the one-on-one communication opportunities it provides. It was a very valuable way for associates, even officers, to share ideas, talk about the business, and learn from each other. As Sam Dunn, the vice president and CFO of Sam’s Club, recently shared with me:

Over the years, I have traveled and bunked with many other associates. Many of them were really talented individuals and I gleaned from them business principles and cultural values as we philosophized, shared ideas, and comparednotes before retiring for the night or tuning in    a good ball game from the understated comfort of our La Quinta double beds. The experience of rooming with Rob Walton, our chairman of the board, at a midpriced hotel in Mexico City  in 1992 was a real eye-opener. We were there to meet with our joint venture partners, Cifra,   as we launched our first Sam’s Clubs in Mexico. I was a young finance director with just a   few years’ experience. Sam Walton had only recently passed away and his oldest son, Rob,   had taken on the chairmanship and the responsibility of turning Wal-Mart into a global enterprise.Mexico was our first international effort. On this particular trip, several key executives accompanied us, but I somehow ended up sharing a hotel room with Rob. It so happened that Rob was training for his second Ironman Triathlon, and I was an avid runner. We got up in the mornings at 5 AM and ran from our hotel to Chapultepec Park and back,    had breakfast together, and spent our days in meeting on a growth strategy for Mexico.

Imagine what it meant that the chairman of the board would hang out after business hours and exchange ideas with a young, developing director!

The Power of a Symbol

“Two to a room” is a symbol of our cost consciousness. It is constant reminder to our associates when they travel that they must watch their expenses in everything they do.

I believe that symbols are a very important way of teaching principles. Symbols can present a mental picture of an important idea or concept. The yellow smiley face that we use a great deal in Wal-Mart promotion is an example of how we all should look. It is a reminder of friendliness and treating others with kindness and respect. Another example of a meaningful symbol is the Wal-Mart cheer. People outside the company don’t understand the relevance of a cheer in a business—it sounds like high school stuff. The

cheer, however, is a way of having a little fun and at the same time bringing everyone together in a form of celebrating our company. It signifies unity and helps us to begin each day and each meeting on a happy note.

We use many other symbols of cultural issues at Wal-Mart, including the modest office decor, the people-greeters, the posting of the Wal-Mart stock price in the home office and every store and club every day, and many other things big and small. I believe that many leaders underuse symbols as a tool that offers a wonderful opportunity to reinforce the culture of any organization.

The Dangers of Bureaucracy

As a business grows larger, it is even more important to control costs, but at the same time, it gets harder. The further the leadership gets away from the details of the operations, the greater the chance for slippage. Unnecessary costs creep into a business in many ways. Everyone needs an assistant, the assistants need assistants, and instead of managers being generalists, they call for more specialists. At this point, the bureaucracy has arrived. We install computers to reduce the clerical work but don’t reduce the payroll accordingly—we need people to read and interpret the myriad of reports. We grow larger, and the bureaucracy grows faster than the sales. The bureaucrats add to the workload by developing new reports that everyone needs to receive. The list of people who receive reports becomes endless. Before long, the bureaucracy is full-blown and costing the company money.

Bureaucrats not only add to the payroll and create additional work, but they also stifle innovation and initiative so that it takes longer to get things done. A U.S. congressman spoke at a Saturday morning meeting many years ago and shared his view on bureaucrats. He compared bureaucrats to cockroaches. He said that “it isn’t what they eat that’s the problem, it’s what they get into and mess up that’s the real concern.”

Bureaucracy is clearly a danger to the cost structure of any organization.

At Wal-Mart, it was a constant battle to keep bureaucracy from growing. Management carefully scrutinized all departmental expenses monthly and challenged all recommended changes in structure. Periodically, we called for

a moratorium on hiring any additional people and a reassessment of staffing in each department to determine what work could be eliminated. A basic principle that we followed was that you can’t reduce costs without eliminating the work. It’s really remarkable how many expenses are unnecessary and how much waste can build up in any organization over time. We found that even with constant diligence, periodic soul-searching was essential.

Continuing to keep pressure on costs in every area requires constant discipline because they slip in from everywhere. In order to maintain that discipline, a leader must pay attention to details, keep in touch with people, and continually monitor execution at all levels.