SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Leadership Principles
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of leadership, having core values, and creating a positive corporate culture that engages employees.
KEYWORDS: leadership, values, corporate culture, employee engagement, Sam Walton
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

So leadership, true leadership, is always about struggle. It is about two things: one, having values, and two, being willing to fight for those values. If you want to be a leader you must have values, a set of beliefs, convictions, and ideals—a vision for your country, your community, and your business. You must be willing to step into the arena and fight for those values, for that “worthy cause.”

—Benjamin Netanyahu, Former Prime Minister of Israel

Sam’s Can-Do Hula Dance

Our year-beginning meeting in January of 1983 began as other years: with a challenge from Sam Walton. Sam challenged us to do better than we had ever done before—to raise the bar, to reach higher. He suggested to all the store managers and executives that if we treated our associates and customers better than we ever had, we would in turn experience the greatest revenue growth and highest profit margins in our corporate history. However, he coyly hinted, no matter how well we did, it would probably be impossible for us to reach an 8 percent pretax profit in that year. After some humorous exchanges with the audience, Sam reluctantly agreed to do a hula dance on Wall Street if we were able to reach the 8 percent mark.

The attitude of the individual determines the attitude of the group.

—John C. Maxwell

Our Wal-Mart associates accepted the challenge with gusto. Everyone

became engaged and worked enthusiastically to meet the goal. You know what? By the end of the year we had done it, and everyone had had a lot of fun in the process. True to his promise, on a very cold day in March of 1984, Sam shocked everyone on Wall Street by doing his hula.

This story is not a new one—it’s been reported many times before. I’m not sure, however, that everyone gets the life lessons from the story. Most leaders would think that doing something like this was far below them, or that it was just a silly publicity stunt. What I learned anew is how much people can accomplish if you make work fun and get everyone involved. Sam’s approachability and can-do attitude infected his whole organization. Hey, if all it took was a hula, it was a small price to pay.

For reflection and action:

Have you ever sat down to write out your core values and beliefs? Have you determined those issues on which you are unwilling to compromise? This need not be an extensive list. Better to be diligent with just a few essential beliefs than to consider many things important but never really adhere to any of them.

Have you embraced the values of your organization? (Do you even know what they are?) Have you accepted the leadership task of being a role model in your company in word and deed? How can you improve in this area?

Describe in two or three sentences your company’s culture. Do you practice it on purpose? Does it have you poised for success? What can you do to build a more positive corporate culture?

Chapter 4

People Make the Difference

The highest compliment leaders can receive is the one that is given by the people who work for them. It is only as we develop others that we permanently succeed.

—Harvey S. Firestone

Wal-Mart Way Principle #4

True success is achieved in direct proportion to the degree that an organization treats its people with respect and dignity—and believes in them enough to help them grow.

The Wal-Mart Way is not about stores, clubs, distribution centers, trucks, or computers. These tangible assets are all crucial ingredients in the company’s business plan, but the real story of success is about people. It’s about Sam Walton and other leaders who have served through the years. It’s about middle managers and every single hourly associate who serves the company and customer so faithfully.

Systems, strategies, and infrastructure are all extremely important. But people make things happen! As much as any other company that I am aware of, large or small, Wal-Mart has most closely resembled a true family. Yes, we are diverse, with many different people—and different kinds of people— in many different locations doing many different things, but we have always worked together to make the company successful and be true to the vision that we share. I am not suggesting that we did everything right, but we moved quickly to correct our mistakes.

Energizing a Team

I know of no other company that has appreciated and respected the value of every individual the way Wal-Mart has. Now, I do know of many

companies that treat their associates quite well—and I don’t know of too many companies, though amazingly there are more than a few, which have built into their culture a pattern of neglect and indifference. But the issue of treating everyone in an organization with esteem is so important for success and satisfaction in the workplace, I would say that if your company evidences a greater appreciation and respect for associates than Wal-Mart, all the better and I commend you. (And I want to know what you are doing so Wal-Mart can learn and do better!)

Never minimize the positive impact of a pat on the back or a kind word at the right time.

Treating people with dignity was a key component of Sam’s business plan.

On the simplest of levels, he just plain liked people. Everyone. From all walks of life—rich and poor, black and white, men and women, big city and small town—he liked them all.