SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text describes a not-for-profit organization that equips leaders with ethical leadership skills through retreats and customized services.
KEYWORDS: ethical leadership, leadership development, leadership retreats, Soderquist Center, Beaver Lake
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

not-for-profit organization located in Siloam Springs, Arkansas, and affiliated

with John Brown University. The Center is named for Don Soderquist, who

firmly believes that business ethics are not a luxury, but an essential element

in creating a high-performance organization; he also understands that the

responsibility for creating an ethical organization belongs to its senior

leaders. The Center, which exists to equip men and women with the

transforming power of ethical leadership, hosts retreats at its retreat center

located on the shores of beautiful Beaver Lake in Northwest Arkansas for

CEOs and other senior leaders to dialogue with their peers and explore how

to become more effective and successful principled-centered leaders. In

addition, retreats are held for high-potential and fast-track middle managers

and senior leaders to significantly accelerate their development. By creating,

developing, and implementing customized strategic planning, succession

planning, strategic alignment sessions, and leadership development paths for

organizations, their leaders, and their people, the Soderquist Center has

become a catalyst for organizations that want to move from today’s reality to

the unlimited possibilities of the future.

We invite you to explore our Web site:

www.soderquist.org

If you enjoyed The Wal-Mart Way by Don Soderquist,

consider these other quality leadership titles from

Nelson Business:

THE FOUR ELEMENTS OF SUCCESS

Small businesses, large corporations, churches, and organizations of all sizes

need to have an easily understood method for hiring, placement, team

building, and personnel integration so that all members in the organizational

ladder can be at their effective best. New York Times best-selling author

Laurie Beth Jones developed the Path Elements Profile (PEP), which can be

used in recruitment, placement, retention, team building, and customer

relations. Based upon the elements of Earth, Water, Wind, and Fire, The Four

Elements of Success will help leaders determine both individual and team

behavioral tendencies that affect everything. INCLUDES an assessment test

for your team’s elemental strengths and weaknesses.

ISBN: 0-7852-0888-7

THE CENTURION PRINCIPLES

The Centurion Principles, by New York Times best-selling author Colonel

Jeff O’Leary (ret.), illuminates the defining moments of great leaders,

including Alexander the Great, Joan of Arc, and Abraham Lincoln. This

approach of placing readers in the shoes of decision makers provides a

realistic and gripping application of leadership principles and motivates

readers into becoming the kind of leader that will leave a stirring legacy—a

Centurion Leader.

ISBN 0-7852-6196-6

More titles from Nelson Business:

TRUST

From the perspective of someone who served a U.S. president, a U.S. senator,

and a governor, author Les T. Csorba sees trust as the most indispensable

force between leaders and followers. In Trust he offers observations gleaned

from two decades of experience in government, business, church, and family.

The book features interactive elements such as a guide to evaluating whether

you are developing the trust necessary to motivate and richly lead followers.

ISBN 0-7852-6154-0

AESOP & THE CEO

David Noonan, in a clever melding of modern business sense and ancient

wisdom, uses the ancient fables of Aesop as a backdrop for 50 significant

lessons from the greatest business leaders of our day. Both entertaining and

informative, Aesop & the CEO is comprised of short, easy-to-read vignettes

that cover every aspect of corporate life: negotiations, hiring and firing,

mergers and acquisitions, marketing and sales, and day-to-day management.

ISBN 0-7852-6010-2