SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Community Support and Disaster Relief
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's commitment to enhancing the quality of life in communities through lower prices, job creation, and disaster relief efforts.
KEYWORDS: community support, disaster relief, price reduction, job creation, quality of life
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

The Wal-Mart Way of Enhancing Quality of Life

A UBS Warburg study found that Wal-Mart grocery prices are 17 to 20 percent lower than other supermarkets, which has the greatest benefit for

low-income families.

According to the New England Consulting Group, Wal-Mart saved consumers $20 billion last year—enough to put a $100 bill in the hands of every adult in America.

A new Wal-Mart store, Sam’s Club, or distribution center in a community means new jobs and lower retail prices in all area stores.

Wal-Mart generates more than $8 billion in sales tax revenues and millions more in property taxes every year that help to fund such basic services as police, fire, and schools.

One of the greatest problems for communities that experience devastating natural disasters is a shortage of routine and specialized merchandise, which in turn drives up prices. This never happened in Marion. The community’s lifeline of everyday supplies flowed without interruption. Many people in the town believed that this was a more significant contribution toward their recovery than any money and goods that Wal-Mart donated.

One year later, the construction was complete, and we had an exciting grand reopening. During that year, with one-third of the store gone, we never had a week when the sales in that store were less than the year before. The customers were amazed at Wal-Mart’s efforts, especially Sam’s special interest in the project, and they became loyal believers in Wal-Mart. When the rebuilt store opened, the sales skyrocketed and continued to grow at an accelerated rate for years. The customers were grateful for what Wal-Mart did in their time of need and rewarded Wal-Mart with their continued loyalty. When you demonstrate genuine care for people, they care for you.

Thus began a dramatic recovery-response program that is still in operation today. Whenever and wherever a disaster strikes (be it a tornado, hurricane, flood, fire, or anything else), the local Wal-Mart will always be at the front of rescue and recovery efforts. A Disaster Recovery team moves into action and has critically needed merchandise on the way to the scene of the disaster within twenty-four hours. From our experiences, we have developed a list of 150 to 200 items that people desperately need in the immediate aftermath of a

disaster: mops, pails, garbage cans and bags, brooms, chain saws, fuel, camp stoves, sleeping bags, bottled water, dog food, baby formula, disposable diapers, and so forth. We do everything we possibly can to expedite getting the right merchandise into the right hands at the right time.

Many of our suppliers participate with us on this and in many cases reduce their cost to us on the most critical items. We pass this cost reduction directly on to our customers, and we even reduce the prices on many other items to help our customers in their time of real need. Frequently, we will bring trailer loads of water into our parking lots and distribute it to people free of charge. If our store is damaged, we work around the clock by bringing in associates from other stores who take shifts in order to reopen it safely as soon as possible. When a local store’s recovery is completed so quickly, where do you think the customers in that area are going to do their regular shopping when the crisis is over?

In the Denver, Colorado, area, after that terrible shooting at Columbine High School, students initially couldn’t return to their own school and were temporarily transferred to another school. The associates in our Wal-Mart stores in the immediate area decided that since those students couldn’t get to their lockers in Columbine and likely needed supplies, they would help. “Why don’t we provide them with backpacks, pencils, paper, and whatever other school supplies they might need? For free?”

They went to their store managers with a plan to donate the needed supplies; the managers were happy to be part of the plan. They set up a big tent in the Wal-Mart parking lot to assemble the packages for these high- school students. As a result, all of the Columbine students got their needed supplies when they went back to school—all orchestrated by our associates out there. Wal-Mart took it one step further when it sent five or six counselors from Resources for Living, at Wal-Mart’s expense, to counsel with students and parents in their grief. This is another example of people really caring about other people. In truth, no matter what business you may be in, it’s all about people and relationships.

You Are More Important Than a Frying Pan

Customer satisfaction is not a matter of policies and procedures. It is about principles that are written on the hearts of all members of the team so that they know instinctively how to act.

I have my favorite story on customer service. Her story went something like this: