SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Business Leadership and Growth
SUMMARY: The text discusses the key factors that led to Wal-Mart's success, including the vision and values of its founder Sam Walton and the hard work of dedicated employees.
KEYWORDS: Wal-Mart, business growth, leadership, vision, values
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

convictions of right and wrong. The story begins to take shape with his

uncanny ability to inspire a group of people to embrace his vision and create

not only a one-of-a-kind company but a revolutionary business model that

impacted the standard of living for millions upon millions of everyday people

in America and worldwide. The story gains momentum as it is played out by

humble men and women who were able to aim well beyond the horizon of

the status quo, and who are still dreaming big dreams today.

The story continues to be written. It could, in fact, be duplicated by many

others, and yet it is possible that it will never be written again.

So What’s the Secret?

Frequently, I’m asked the question, “How has Wal-Mart done it?” or

“What’s the secret?” I must humbly confess that there is no secret, no magic

formula. The story is not a complicated novel with a cast of thousands and

numerous subplots to follow. It is possibly so simple that unless you read it

with discernment and an open heart, you may miss its significance.

Sometimes the simplest truths are the hardest to grasp because they seem so

obvious. Many bright, educated, articulate people are turned off by

simplicity, thinking, It can’t be that easy, or other people would have done

it.Where’s the real magic? Others dismiss the story as sheer luck. Sam was

just in the right place at the right time.

If vision, hard work, integrity, focus on the customer, passion for

excellence, and having fun at work is luck, then we, indeed, were some of the

luckiest people alive.

I don’t want to suggest for one minute that it was easy—it wasn’t. And it

certainly wasn’t simply being fortunate—though most of us feel incredibly

blessed to be a part of the story. What brought us to where we are is a lot of

hard work by a lot of wonderful, dedicated people over the years. There were

many tough decisions and many obstacles to overcome, and our journey in

the business world has been far from risk-free; but had it been easy, the

accomplishment would not have been as great and would not have tasted so

sweet.

How Then Did We Do It?

No single factor led us to success—a number of things that we did

combined to create a synergy that multiplied the impact and compounded the

results of our efforts. If you look at any business or organization that has

grown and achieved substantial success over the long term, you’ll notice

several key factors that made a big difference. I believe that Wal-Mart has a

special story to tell, that there are several distinctive and unique factors that

played a major role in our success. Here is a preview of what I’ll cover

through stories and personal reflections in the following chapters:

1. Wal-Mart began with the dream of one man, Sam Walton, to own his own

store. He cherished and nurtured that dream in such a way—with a sense

of sacred duty and a willingness to let the dream enable him to grow

personally—that the dream itself grew into something beyond his or

anyone else’s wildest imagination.

2. Wal-Mart was built on (and maintains) an exciting vision of what we could

become, which was not based on financial goals, but on serving others. No

matter what the challenge or decision in front of us,we refused to depart

from that vision. Of course,we developed a product and the necessary

strategies, resources, and people to reach a profit model that would lead to

long-term success. Every truly successful organization strives for

sustainability. But even as we sought to be a financially viable company,

we never swerved from our original vision of serving our customers.

3. Wal-Mart created and has sustained a unique company culture based on

core values and beliefs that have been woven into the very fabric of the

company. Ask the Wal-Mart associates who have been with the company

twenty, thirty, forty years and longer, and they’ll convince you that the

fundamental culture has not changed with growth or time. In my judgment,

the single most important element in the continued, remarkable success of

Wal-Mart is our culture. I think you’ll find our plan for sharing culture

with each successive generation of leadership to be profound.

Before everything else, getting ready is the secret of success.

—Henry Ford

4. Wal-Mart demonstrates a genuine commitment to our associates. This

shows up in competitive salaries, investment options, benefits, a promote-

from-within philosophy, and in other ways. But I think what truly stands

out is the amazingly open interaction between the various levels of

responsibility. Everyone is treated with respect and dignity. It is a core

belief that every associate is vital to the success of the company, which is

why so many of our best ideas and practices have been forged in the front

lines of our stores.

5. Wal-Mart emphasizes and reinforces with all associates that they must

have a burning focus to satisfy every single customer every day. We all

recognize that the customers are the reason we are in business and that it is

our responsibility to do our best to exceed their expectations,whether it be

a friendly greeter at the front door, all merchandise in stock, or our

everyday low-pricing strategy.

6. Wal-Mart encourages a passion for excellence in every area of our

business. We are always striving to get better and to be the best that we can

be. As a result, we are not afraid to change and, in fact, we embrace change

proactively. We don’t wait for major problems to arise but attempt to make

improvements to systems and dynamics that are already working

comparatively well.

7. Wal-Mart thrives on execution, on making things happen, on a can-do

attitude. This means getting the job done and achieving objectives with

record speed and accuracy. It means guarding against an increasingly

complex and self-serving bureaucracy. A company can have a wonderful