SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Business Growth Strategy
SUMMARY: The story of Wal-Mart's success is not a complicated one, but rather a simple tale of vision, hard work, integrity, and a focus on serving customers.
KEYWORDS: business growth, vision, customer-centric, simplicity
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

The story continues to be written. It could, in fact, be duplicated by many others, and yet it is possible that it will never be written again.

So What’s the Secret?

Frequently, I’m asked the question, “How has Wal-Mart done it?” or “What’s the secret?” I must humbly confess that there is no secret, no magic formula. The story is not a complicated novel with a cast of thousands and numerous subplots to follow. It is possibly so simple that unless you read it

with discernment and an open heart, you may miss its significance. Sometimes the simplest truths are the hardest to grasp because they seem so obvious. Many bright, educated, articulate people are turned off by simplicity, thinking, It can’t be that easy, or other people would have done it.Where’s the real magic? Others dismiss the story as sheer luck. Sam was just in the right place at the right time.

If vision, hard work, integrity, focus on the customer, passion for excellence, and having fun at work is luck, then we, indeed, were some of the luckiest people alive.

I don’t want to suggest for one minute that it was easy—it wasn’t. And it certainly wasn’t simply being fortunate—though most of us feel incredibly blessed to be a part of the story. What brought us to where we are is a lot of hard work by a lot of wonderful, dedicated people over the years. There were many tough decisions and many obstacles to overcome, and our journey in the business world has been far from risk-free; but had it been easy, the accomplishment would not have been as great and would not have tasted so sweet.

How Then Did We Do It?

No single factor led us to success—a number of things that we did combined to create a synergy that multiplied the impact and compounded the results of our efforts. If you look at any business or organization that has grown and achieved substantial success over the long term, you’ll notice several key factors that made a big difference. I believe that Wal-Mart has a special story to tell, that there are several distinctive and unique factors that played a major role in our success. Here is a preview of what I’ll cover through stories and personal reflections in the following chapters:

Wal-Mart began with the dream of one man, Sam Walton, to own his own store. He cherished and nurtured that dream in such a way—with a sense of sacred duty and a willingness to let the dream enable him to grow personally—that the dream itself grew into something beyond his or anyone else’s wildest imagination.

Wal-Mart was built on (and maintains) an exciting vision of what we could become, which was not based on financial goals, but on serving others. No matter what the challenge or decision in front of us,we refused to depart from that vision. Of course,we developed a product and the necessary strategies, resources, and people to reach a profit model that would lead to long-term success. Every truly successful organization strives for sustainability. But even as we sought to be a financially viable company, we never swerved from our original vision of serving our customers.

Wal-Mart created and has sustained a unique company culture based on core values and beliefs that have been woven into the very fabric of the company. Ask the Wal-Mart associates who have been with the company twenty, thirty, forty years and longer, and they’ll convince you that the fundamental culture has not changed with growth or time. In my judgment, the single most important element in the continued, remarkable success of Wal-Mart is our culture. I think you’ll find our plan for sharing culture with each successive generation of leadership to be profound.

Before everything else, getting ready is the secret of success.

—Henry Ford

Wal-Mart demonstrates a genuine commitment to our associates. This shows up in competitive salaries, investment options, benefits, a promote- from-within philosophy, and in other ways. But I think what truly stands out is the amazingly open interaction between the various levels of responsibility. Everyone is treated with respect and dignity. It is a core belief that every associate is vital to the success of the company, which is why so many of our best ideas and practices have been forged in the front lines of our stores.

Wal-Mart emphasizes and reinforces with all associates that they must have a burning focus to satisfy every single customer every day. We all recognize that the customers are the reason we are in business and that it is our responsibility to do our best to exceed their expectations,whether it be a friendly greeter at the front door, all merchandise in stock, or our everyday low-pricing strategy.

Wal-Mart encourages a passion for excellence in every area of our business. We are always striving to get better and to be the best that we can be. As a result, we are not afraid to change and, in fact, we embrace change proactively. We don’t wait for major problems to arise but attempt to make improvements to systems and dynamics that are already working comparatively well.

Wal-Mart thrives on execution, on making things happen, on a can-do attitude. This means getting the job done and achieving objectives with record speed and accuracy. It means guarding against an increasingly complex and self-serving bureaucracy. A company can have a wonderful vision and an excellent product, but the people must execute for that vision and product to go anywhere. In that same regard, we believe that everything we do should be done with a sense of urgency—no delays, no excuses, no red tape—do it now! As part of our determination to execute well, we pay close attention to details at all levels. We believe that even when a person is promoted or becomes an officer of the company, he or she still has a responsibility to stay appropriately involved in the frontline details of our business.