SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Company Culture and Operations
SUMMARY: The text describes Walmart's company culture, including its Saturday morning meetings, information systems, and the iconic Walmart cheer, which represents teamwork, enthusiasm, and focus on the customer.
KEYWORDS: Walmart culture, Saturday meetings, information systems, Walmart cheer, customer focus
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

That blew my mind. My experience was that construction people were interested only in building a building. But there was a Wal-Mart associate who was interested in beating the competition.

The Saturday morning meeting made it possible for this construction manager to see all aspects of the business we were in and understand that we weren’t building buildings—we were running stores. It also made it possible for him to educate us on his side of the business and really make a difference in our success. Needless to say, we did get the merchandise to the store early, and we did open before our competitor. How many companies are such well- oiled, tightly connected machines? That little story is a great example of how someone experienced and passed on the Wal-Mart culture to others, and how everyone was involved in the success of the stores.

As our company grew, we had to move the location of our meeting and eventually built a new auditorium. Along with our growth came other advances. Our Information-Systems Division (ISD), for example, continued to upgrade the information we received on sales and expenses for the past week. Sales reports listing numbers for each store and club around the world as of Friday evening at midnight were in the hands of senior leaders by 5:00 AM for their review before the meeting. ISD displayed a recap of sales by

region and division on a screen in the meeting room for everyone to see. With these added elements of efficiency in place, we discussed individual store and club results on an exception basis—spending time only on the significant variances in performance—and made decisions regarding action that management may need to take.

Probably the most well-known symbol of the Wal-Mart culture is the Wal-Mart cheer. For anyone who may not have heard the cheer, it goes like this:

What in the world is a squiggly? First of all, it’s a substitute for the hyphen.Second, it is a  body action of bending the knees as if you are sitting down at the same time that you move  your bent arms in a backward and forward motion. It adds some motion and fun to the cheer. This cheer is the standard beginning and ending of most every meeting in Wal-Mart. For people outside of Wal-Mart, it seems silly to some and ridiculous to others, but they just don’t understand. The cheer goes back into the 1970s and represents several very important  elements of the culture. First of all, it represents teamwork;that we are in this together; that it takes each one of us. Second, it represents our informality, our enthusiasm, and the fact that  we have a lot of fun. It also is a constant reminder of the fact that the customer is the reason  we are in business.

Buyers usually had new items or categories to show to the assembled group, and sometimes the suppliers of that merchandise were invited to make comments about their products. We even had occasional fashion shows of new lines of apparel, especially at the changing of the seasons. It didn’t

matter whether you were in accounting, the People Division, warehousing, or real estate, everyone understood that merchandise drove sales and, as a result, everybody was immersed in merchandise during these meetings.

It was also a time to honor associates. We gave special attention to those who were celebrating anniversaries with the company anywhere from ten years on up and in five-year increments. And from time to time we brought in from the field associates who had done something special for a customer or accomplished something unusual for the company, and we as a group honored them. Some of these had participated in really spectacular events, such as saving a customer’s or another associate’s life.

Frequently we asked the associates if they had been in the field that week, and we asked them to share what they saw in our stores or our competitors’ stores—both good and bad. We talked a lot about our competitors, with an emphasis on what they were doing better than we were and what we could learn from them.

Anyone in the audience could raise a question or share a story or an observation about something that had happened during the week that the group might find interesting. Have you ever had a dialogue with a thousand or more people? Well, we did.

This meeting usually was very positive and was an exciting pep rally for the Wal-Mart family. Sam even had some sing-alongs or talent contests when he felt we needed a little boost in morale, though we didn’t hesitate to address problems and other serious matters with the whole group when appropriate.

While it followed a basic pattern from week to week, the meeting’s activities were very spontaneous and informal—almost anything could happen, and sometimes anything did.

It was also a time for senior leadership members to share how they felt about the business, the concerns they had, what associates should be focusing on, and what they were seeing in the stores and clubs. We also addressed principles of leadership in an informal and comfortable way. It was, again, an important time to share the company values and core beliefs. It was a time to share stories about our lessons from the past and new stories from today. It was the Wal-Mart “campfire meeting” where leadership passed on its

heritage.

From time to time, we invited an outside speaker to share his or her leadership principles with us. These people’s comments tended to reinforce the Wal-Mart principles and had a powerful effect coming from well- respected leaders outside our company. We invited some very well-known public figures, such as legendary stock market investor Warren Buffet, former U.S. Congressman Newt Gingrich, and General Tommy Franks, as well as the CEOs of many leading companies in the U.S. such as Herb Kelleher of Southwest Airlines and John Pepper of Procter & Gamble.