SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Management
SUMMARY: Sam Walton emphasizes the importance of treating employees as partners, empowering them, and providing resources to support their well-being.
KEYWORDS: employee relations, open communication, employee support, company culture, Wal-Mart
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Sam Walton on Wal-Mart Associates

If you want a successful business, your people must feel that you are working for them—not that they are working for you.

Share profits with all your associates, and treat them as partners. In turn, they will treat you as a partner.

I’ve always enjoyed challenging our people. If you expect great things from folks, they’ll expect it from themselves. Our people have never let us down.

Isn’t it great to see people do more than they ever dreamed they could do .

. . or you thought they could do? That’s the fun of this business as far as I’m concerned.

To push responsibility down in your organization, and to force good ideas to bubble up within it, you must listen to what our associates are trying to tell you.

What we need in our stores is ingenuity, morality, and honesty.

We get our best results from ordinary people doing an extraordinary job.

There is absolutely no limit to what plain, ordinary working people can

accomplish—if they’re given the opportunity, encouragement, and incentive to do their best.

So we were open and optimistic when first introduced to a very unique organization called Resources for Living, a team of psychologists at Abilene Christian University in Abilene, Texas. Through Resources for Living, a person could get free professional counseling by calling a toll-free number. We decided to try the program out, and based on confidential feedback from our associates, we learned it was appreciated and helpful. All aspects of the program were totally confidential, and any associate or spouse of an associate could bring up any personal problems he or she was having and get expert counsel. Wal-Mart bore the entire cost of providing these counselors.

Management received a breakdown at the end of the month showing a statistical total of the types of problems the counselors dealt with: family, marriage, children, drugs, alcohol, and yes, even work. Marriages were saved, addictions were broken, families were restored, and people were even saved from suicide.

This team of counselors was also called out to stores, clubs, and distribution centers to counsel personally with associates impacted by major traumas, such as deaths in their operating units. The counselors held group meetings to assist associates in dealing with grief and sorrow and were also available to visit with any individuals who requested personal counseling.

The Door Is Always Open

Part of giving our workers dignity was giving them a voice to discuss anything that needed management attention. We strongly supported what we officially dubbed the Open Door Policy. The policy established a means for all of our associates to voice their suggestions on how we could improve our program, to express their opinions if they disagreed with something that was being done, or to address the way someone was treating them.

If associates feel they are being treated unfairly, they go directly to their immediate supervisors and try to work it out there first. If the immediate supervisors can’t solve the problem—or are perceived to be the problem—

and the associates are unable to get satisfaction, then they can go directly to the manager at the next level—all the way up to the CEO if necessary. The only condition on the Open Door is that it doesn’t open until the associate has first spoken to his or her immediate supervisor.

This is a remarkable program that gives confidence to our associates. It has been a key to making our company better because of the honest feedback it gives to all levels of Wal-Mart staff.

From day one, Sam let his management team know that he wanted them to be open and nondefensive. He didn’t want his executives, managers, and supervisors living under the fear that this would undercut their authority and the respect associates had for them. Sam, who was humble and down-to- earth, was able to convince us that to the contrary, this program would make better managers out of us—and actually increase respect for management.

Over the years, we have resolved many problems that we never would have even been aware of if one of our associates hadn’t used the Open Door. I personally spent many hours responding to phone calls and letters from associates with whom I would never have had contact if not for this corporate commitment and discipline.

Just because an associate used the Open Door didn’t mean that he or she was always right. But we have always tried hard to listen very carefully to all sides of an issue. Frequently, the conflict was a matter of miscommunication or misunderstanding that could be resolved by listening and guiding. I found many times that the associates just wanted someone to listen and to know that we cared about them. Unfortunately, even in Wal-Mart not everyone chose to use the Open Door, but it was always available to anyone in the company, and management reminded associates of that frequently. The important thing was that the policy gave everyone the opportunity to be heard and treated fairly.

My first experience with the Open Door came shortly after I joined the company. One of my first responsibilities with Wal-Mart was the distribution operations, which included supervision of the truck drivers. We had one truck driver who was not performing satisfactorily. He was really a decent driver, but not dependable in his personal habits. He would take a load out but

mysteriously not show up at his destination, or he would arrive to work late for his outbound trip. The trucking management team followed all the correct procedures in counseling him to improve his performance. It finally got to a place where I was told, “Don, we have to terminate this man. He is not doing his job, and we have done everything we can.” I looked at all the documentation and everything looked proper to me, so we fired him.

The next day, Sam came into my office and said, “Don, I understand you fired So-and-So.”