SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Technology and Operations
SUMMARY: The text discusses Walmart's advanced information systems and reporting that provide managers with timely data to drive decision-making and maintain a competitive advantage.
KEYWORDS: Walmart, Information Systems, Reporting, Competitive Advantage, Decision-making
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

to maximize our overall performance.

The system is password-protected and has other safeguards so that each

manufacturer and supplier is limited to—and protected by—studying only his

or her own merchandise. Though Wal-Mart standards for merchandise sell-

through are tough, we provide our suppliers with state-of-the-art feedback to

improve their product development. No one wants to create merchandise that

customers don’t want!

This is perhaps the most beautiful time in human history; it is really pregnant with all kinds

of creative possibilities made possible by science and technology which now constitute the

slave of man—if man is not enslaved by it.

—Jonas Salk

No other retailer to date has replicated this system,which is another way

that technology has aided Wal-Mart in developing a significant strategic

advantage in the marketplace.

Speed Matters

The Wal-Mart Information Systems Division has supported every single

department in the company and is the information and communication

backbone of virtually all that we do. A major point of emphasis of systems

design has been to speed information to the operating divisions so that all

decision-makers have accurate, timely information that they can act on.

Every morning, all store and club managers have on their desks a concise

report of the status of their entire operation from the previous day, including

a report card on all of their key numbers for the day and month-to- date. It

also includes action steps that they need to address in that store that day. The

daily report is a powerful tool to assist managers in staying informed about

their business, scheduling their operations, addressing and correcting problem

areas, and focusing the activities of their team each day. Managers study this

report when they first come in and map out the management team’s activities

for the entire day. In this way they can focus in on their top priorities.

A highly respected, long-term officer in Wal-Mart’s financial area shared

the following incident with me recently as an example of how our investment

in technology helped us to maintain our competitive advantage:

Not long ago, I was visiting with a fellow CFO about midmonth and he commented that they

were nearly finished closing their books for the prior month.I asked him if they were behind

schedule. He replied that they always received their monthly financial statements by the

fifteenth of the following month. I didn’t have the heart to tell him that we had closed our

books, printed our monthlyfinancial reports, and had them in the hands of every manager in

the chain by the third working day of the next period. What an incredible edge over a

competitor who takes over two weeks to close the books. We have already identified our

concerns, addressed them, and moved on to bigger and better things. The competitor is still

not quite sure what to be concerned with.

If something has been done a particular way for fifteen or twenty years, it’s a pretty good sign, in these

changing times, that it is being done the wrong way.

—Elliot M. Estes

This practice of immediate financial feedback and information sharing came from Mr. Sam

and was perpetuated by his great successors. In my earliest days at Wal-Mart, our finance

team was located just down the hall from Sam’s office on “Executive Row.” We would be

poring through numbers and reviewing journals and ledgers at about 4 o’clock in the

morning. Sam’s old Ford pickup would pull up outside and he would come in the door asking

for his P&L. He loved to digest reports, and had an uncanny ability to retain and remember

performances. He also expected everyone, from the CFO all the way down to the department

managers in the stores, to “know your numbers.”

Technology: Friend or Foe

People in any organization can view technology as friend or foe. As much

as we have embraced change in Wal-Mart and as ingrained as change is in

our culture, it hasn’t always been easy. Change is disruptive to the normal

routine and can be unsettling to those who are affected. That’s another reason

why it is so important to have a culture where your people trust leadership

(and each other) and where they realize that this is all for the betterment of

the company and, in the long run, for their individual benefit as well. It is the

responsibility of leadership to see that change is communicated to all

associates in an effective, timely, and caring way, which will help ensure a

successful implementation. All leaders must understand that we really need

our people, and it is important to treat them as if we do.

Coming full circle, technology is a powerful tool in building a successful

organization, but we can’t accomplish anything great without the

commitment of our people.

The Real Impact of Technology on Prices

In recent decades,Wal-Mart has done about as much to advance the economic life of the

nation’s poor people as any other institution in the nation. The nation’s poor benefit greatly

from access to low-priced goods. After all, the problem of poverty is the problem of not

having enough money relative to the prices of needed goods. Imagine the joy of a poor single

mother who can finally afford a high-quality new winter coat for a ten-year-old daughter.

Imagine the poor family who can buy Christmas presents for each of their three children

because twenty dollars buys three decent toys at Wal-Mart. Wal-Mart offers lower prices not

because it uses factories in China (other stores use the same factories); not because it pays

lower wages than other stores; but because its huge investment in information and

communications technology allows it to match its wholesale purchases more carefully and

2

quickly to consumer demand, avoiding waste and greatly lowering its costs.

For reflection and action:

1. How would you rate your personal use of the various tools and resources

you have available to you? Do you make things harder than they have to

be?