SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Strategy and Vision
SUMMARY: The text explores Wal-Mart's retail strategy, focusing on Sam Walton's vision of providing quality goods at low prices and creating a family-like atmosphere for his employees.
KEYWORDS: Wal-Mart, Retail Strategy, Sam Walton, Vision, Low Prices
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

shopping environment. He wanted to accomplish this with a team of

dedicated people . (Sam checked a person’s smile before he checked his

educational background!) He strongly believed that if his team of associates

felt as if they were part of a family, it would make his vision a joy and a

success. And ultimately, as a smart businessman, Sam realized that if the

stores were successful, he could continue to grow the company and touch

more and more customers with his vision.

Warren Buffet estimates that Wal-Mart saves consumers $10 billion annually, primarily

through its everyday low prices. In the March 2003 issue of Fortune magazine he said:

You can add it all up and they (Wal-Mart) have contributed to the financial well-being of

the American public more than any institution I can think of.

Notice that Sam did not begin with a vision to create the largest retail chain

in the United States—much less found the largest company in the world.

Millions of people have ambitious dreams and grand ideas for the future but

fail to build the support and enthusiasm of others—investors, customers, their

own employees—maybe even themselves. If you want people to follow you,

be aware that they will always relate much better and on a much deeper level

to something that is worthwhile in and of itself rather than financial

objectives.

Sam never articulated a vision of being the biggest and richest. He did

have a simple business plan that would make money and that he believed

would likewise make the world a better place. And his team embraced the

vision.

The customers liked what they saw too. They continued to shop at Wal-

Mart, making the vision a reality—and helping it to grow beyond anything

Sam ever dreamed of. Sam never wavered in his vision to provide service to

small-town America, but as success bred success, he began to test his stores

in midsized markets and then in the major metropolitan centers of America.

The vision grew, but the fundamental premise never changed: improve the

standard of living for everyday people by providing quality goods at low

prices.

The Vision Grows—Sam’s Club Is Born

In 1982, David Glass (who was then the CFO and who later became CEO

of Wal-Mart), Sam, and I were in Southern California for a retailers’

convention,where we met with Sam’s good friend Sol Price, an

entrepreneurial retailer who had developed a retail-wholesale concept he

called the Price Club. It was a warehouse club that required you to buy a

membership and pay an annual fee in order to shop there. The primary

customers were small-business owners who could buy merchandise at

wholesale prices (or lower) and resell to their customers at substantial

savings. They could also buy many of their supplies at the Price Club.

Individual retail customers could buy memberships and shop there as well.

Though not everyone was optimistic about a business model where people

would pay up front to shop in your store, the idea was so unique and

intriguing that we decided to visit one of the clubs and see what we could

learn. (Sam would never let us get away from the habit of visiting our

competitors to learn how we could improve, a trait and discipline I will

further elaborate on in the section titled “A Vision of What Is Right in Front

of You.”)

We were blown away by what we saw. The Price Club was almost

everything retail wasn’t supposed to be. It was located in an old, unattractive

warehouse building with very limited parking and no other retail stores

around it. It was dark and dingy inside; no effort had been made to make the

building bright or attractive. The floors were concrete and the ceiling was

exposed dark steel supports. The club carried a limited number of products,

many of them food items. There was nothing special about what we saw

except outstanding prices and hundreds of smiling members from one end of

the building to the other, pulling large, four-wheel carts filled with

merchandise. Wow! That was really exciting!

A Vision is much more than a statement on a piece of paper that is posted on the bulletin

board in the lunchroom or highlighted in the annual report. It is, in essence, your reason for

being.

• A vision must be the passion of the leader. A leader must be driven by his or her strong

desire to make it become a reality.

• A vision must ultimately impact all the decisions a leader makes.

• A vision must be something that is difficult and challenging—but also attainable.

• A vision must be exciting—if you want your people to be motivated about achieving it.

The role of the leader, then, is to paint a picture of that vision in such a way that those he or

she is leading will embrace it and make it their own. In that way, all of the energies of the

organization are focused on the same objective. That’s when the vision happens.

Since all Wal-Mart stores at that time were located in smaller markets, we

reasoned this would be an excellent way to begin reaching and serving

customers in larger metropolitan markets and start learning how to

merchandise and sell food. Another very appealing aspect of the Price Club

model was that we would be helping small businesses become more

successful. After all, that was our own heritage and, in fact,we were still

pretty small ourselves. Sam was always for the little guy, whether it was a

person, a business, or an organization. This was a way to help them. So when

we got back to our offices in Bentonville, we decided to experiment with the

idea of a wholesale club.

In 1983, we opened our first Sam’s Club in Oklahoma City, in a building

that had previously been an auto dealership. It was an instant success. The

small-business owners flocked to Sam’s Club, as it provided them with a