SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Pricing Strategy
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's focus on everyday low prices over promotional pricing has been a key part of their strategy, benefiting customers and undermining competitors.
KEYWORDS: everyday low prices, price rollbacks, cost-cutting, customer as agent, pricing strategy
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

Prices Aren’t Everything, but They Come Close

Wal-Mart has established a great reputation for low prices. The real key is

everyday low prices—not just advertised low prices on a few selected items

for a week or weekend. I remember in past years going to seminars and

conferences with other retailers and discussing our respective marketing

strategies. They talked about their weekly or biweekly advertising circulars

and how those were their bread-and-butter method for drawing customers

into their stores. Then they would politely acknowledge our idea of everyday

low prices as a strategy for attracting customers but never sounded too

impressed.

What our competitors didn’t realize was that little by little, we were

drawing their customers away from them, because customers were finding

that on a day-in and day-out basis, they were paying less for their purchases

at Wal-Mart and were significantly reducing their cost of living. This

seriously undermined classic retail strategies of the loss leader and bait and

switch with customers, who were getting a better value from everyday low

prices. No matter what business you are in, value is what your customers are

looking for.

You can’t maintain low prices without low costs, so Wal-Mart has always

worked closely with suppliers to drive costs out of the system (I’ll describe

this more fully in chapter 10, “Creating Supplier Relations”). When we cut

costs, we pass this savings on to the customer and have what we call price

“rollbacks.” We advertise rollbacks to draw the attention of the customer to

the fact that we have reduced the price of an item or a category. This has been

a tremendous reinforcement to our everyday low-price image and has further

reduced the cost of living of our customers.

To completely understand this strong emphasis on setting the lowest prices

possible on the items in our stores, you need to understand that we really do

believe in Sam’s vision of improving the lifestyle of everyday Americans—

and people throughout the world. We came to view ourselves as the “agent”

of the customers. As their agent, we believed that it was our job to buy wisely

for our customers, not just sell to them. This is a completely different

approach from what is common in other organizations. Though simple, it is

revolutionary, and many leaders in the retail industry still do not understand

it. Our role as the customers’ agent explains why we sometimes have an item

that our closest competitor prices at $19.95, which we price for just $14.86. I

have been asked many, many times why we don’t raise the price to, say, $16

or $17.95. We would still be pricing lower than the competition but increase

our margins and make more money. Surely the market would bear the extra

buck or two. As hard as it is for many to understand, we actually try to sell

our merchandise as low as we can, not as high as we can. Why? We are the

agent for the customer. And by the way, our customers know what we are

trying to do. They have come to recognize that “Everyday low prices” is

more than a slogan.

World-class leaders know that customer loyalty, employee commitment, and operating efficiency are all

essential elements of business success.Therefore, they refuse to trade off one for another.

—George Labovitz

The Marketing of Wal-Mart

A carefully thought-out marketing strategy is a key element in the success

of any organization. Marketing is not to be confused with advertising.

Advertising is only one part of marketing, albeit an important part. But

marketing is the total face you show to your existing and potential customers

—your product, your place of purchase, your promotion, and your pricing.

What is it you really want customers and potential customers to think about

when they hear your name? What image do you want to appear in their minds

at the thought of you?

Marketing begins with the product itself. What does it look like? How does

it operate, and who are the potential users? What makes it unique or

different? How is it packaged? Why would someone want to buy it?

The next step in marketing involves getting the product to the customers—

that is, your place (or point) of purchase. Are you brick-and-mortar? Internet?

Both? What channels will you use to distribute your product?

And then there’s promotion. How will your products and services—how

will you—be advertised? Newspapers, magazines, radio, TV, the

Internet,word of mouth, home parties, door-to-door?

One last element that will clearly impact sales of the product is the pricing

strategy you will employ. Obviously, a key factor in that decision is the cost

to produce and deliver the product. The ultimate goal of Wal-Mart is to

reduce the cost on a continuing basis in order to provide value to the

customer and a fair return to the company.

Finally, taking the previous four components of marketing into account,

the overall company message must be clear and easily understood. It must

succinctly convey the message you want your audience to hear. It must be

believable and truthful, as well as compelling, without overstating your case.

Don’t promise something you can’t deliver.

Marketing must be unique and different, dramatic, or even humorous in

order to attract attention. If the marketing program is carefully and

deliberately crafted, it can give any organization a powerful competitive

advantage and add significantly to sales.

Unique and Compelling Wal-Mart Themes

The Wal-Mart marketing strategy has been unique among retailers. The

product, as I have explained, is a store designed to satisfy customers by

offering the everyday household needs of families in a friendly and fun

atmosphere; it is a wide assortment of merchandise, with an emphasis on

brand-name products; it is friendliness of the associates; and it is everyday

low pricing. (Always.)

In the early years,Wal-Mart advertised, as did most of the retail industry,

primarily in local newspapers and in monthly circulars. Many of the items

selected were shown at reduced prices. Over time, it became apparent that