SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Acquisition Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses Walmart's selective and strategic approach to acquisitions, focusing on the quality of the acquired companies' people and their ability to adapt to Walmart's business model.
KEYWORDS: Acquisitions, Expansion, Strategic Direction, Workforce Integration, Retail Strategies
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

Whether we relocated, expanded, or remodeled a store, we never closed it for

even one day. If we weren’t going to let a fire shut down a store in Wabash,

Indiana, for even a single week, we weren’t going to let a remodel close us

for even one day! We felt we owed it to our customers to remain open, even

if the store was torn up and we were moving merchandise around. We did

most of the work at night with a crew of associates from other stores and

headed up by our Store Planning department.

One who gains strength by overcoming obstacles possesses the only strength which can overcome

adversity.

—Albert Schweitzer

The Acquisitions Strategy

We had many opportunities to acquire other chains over the years. We

were very, very selective in choosing which ones to consider. As a result, we

turned down most opportunities presented to us. The chain had to fit into our

overall strategic direction and be priced right before we would become

serious. One of the real advantages we looked for in these acquisitions was

the quality of the people we would inherit.

Several of the acquired companies that were particularly rich in good

people included Kuhns Big K, the Warehouse Club,Woolco of Canada, and

ASDA of Great Britain. (I will say more on international acquisitions later.)

Many of their people have risen to top ranks within Wal-Mart and continue to

perform well today. It’s amazing what happened when we acquired stores

and continued to operate them in the same locations with almost the same

type of merchandise and mostly the same people—but with Wal-Mart’s

everyday low-price marketing strategy and Wal-Mart’s operational model.

Woolco, for example, was the number-four discounter in Canada at the time

we acquired it. It doubled its sales in three years and today is the runaway

number-one retailer in Canada.

International Acquisitions

Selective acquisitions have been an important part of our growth,

especially in the international division. When we invested in Cifra, it was

already the number-one retail chain in Mexico and continues to be so today.

What’s even more amazing is that Cifra continues to be the fastest-growing

chain percentage- wise in Mexico, not as easy a task for the largest company

in a category.

ASDA was undoubtedly one of our finest acquisitions. It was already an

excellent chain in Great Britain, specializing in food. The organization had

great merchants and a wonderful management team from top to bottom. It

was almost a perfect match with our culture; in many respects, we thought

the same way and operated the same way. In fact, we were able to improve

our U.S. operations by learning many things from ASDA, especially in food

merchandising, while ASDA learned from us in the areas of general

merchandising and systems.

Frequently when we acquired a company in another country, we found that

aspects of the business infrastructure in that country were not as advanced as

that of the U.S. Rather than consider this a problem or an obstacle, we viewed

it as an opportunity not only to improve the performance of the acquired

company, but also to assist the entire industry in order to reduce the supply-

chain costs and reduce the prices to the customers in those markets. That may

sound like a bold statement, but we did just that. Consider the following

quote in Newsweek:

When Wal-Mart strides into a new market, it’s as if a bull has gotten loose in the china shop.

Papers scream the news, stocks gyrate and local retailers start to scramble. Wal-Mart is

already being credited with holding down inflation in Mexico, with improving Britain’s cost

1

of living and with helping to revolutionize the distribution system in China.

On the other hand, several international acquisitions have been much more

difficult because of cultural differences and challenges in converting to Wal-

Mart systems. Analysts have singled out and discussed Germany, for

example, for a number of years as a problem area for Wal-Mart. There is no

question that it has taken us longer than anticipated to achieve the margins

there we are used to. But I have never sensed negativity within Wal-Mart,

rather a firm confidence that Germany will become a very profitable country

for Wal-Mart in the future. We have an experienced and highly qualified

leadership team in place in Germany, and it is already making it happen. As

with other challenges, this has not deterred Wal-Mart from continuing to add

new countries internationally, and we will continue to do so.

If you play it safe in life you’ve decided that you don’t want to grow any more.

—Shirley Mount Hufstedler

People who are not familiar with Wal-Mart don’t understand our resolve to

make things work—the greater the challenge, the greater our determination.

New Formats

The sixth component of our growth strategy has been the addition of new

formats. I’ve already mentioned the birth of Sam’s, Supercenters,

international stores, and the newest format, the Neighborhood Markets. I

can’t tell you today what new retail concepts will emerge for Wal-Mart in the

future, but I can unequivocally state: if there is a better way to serve our

customers, Wal-Mart will find it.

The Wal-Mart growth strategy is the engine that drives the company’s

sales. Each of the six dynamics has played an important part in this

continuous growth. That will be true in the future as well; however, an

increasing percentage of our growth will come from the international division

as we continue to bring everyday low prices and our brand of customer

satisfaction to the countries we are already in and extend those values into

other parts of the world.

International Wal-Mart Stores and Sam’s Clubs

Country Number of Stores*

Argentina 11

Brazil 149

Canada 248

China 43

Germany 91

South Korea 16

Mexico 694

Puerto Rico 54

United Kingdom 278

* As of January 2005

For reflection and action:

1. Does your company or organization have a growth strategy that “the

troops” understand and discuss?