SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Motivation and Morale
SUMMARY: The text discusses the impact of positive feedback and encouragement on employee performance, attitude, and job satisfaction.
KEYWORDS: employee motivation, positive feedback, employee morale, employee confidence, attitude change
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

going to come, and now I was taking it back. I felt even worse the next

Sunday when I saw him at church. He treated me fine, but I felt a strain in the

relationship from my side for quite some time.

I stayed with Ben Franklin. Nothing changed with my job or the

environment. I still reported to the same person. Everything was exactly the

same—except my attitude. The only difference between Tuesday and

Wednesday was that on Wednesday I came to work with a completely

different attitude and I felt good—someone thinks that I’m an extraordinary

person.

The executive vice president didn’t change my reporting relationship

(supervisor) until six months later. That was okay with me, though, because

my whole perspective on the situation had changed, and I was determined to

prove that he was right. As I think back, this one encounter caused me to

approach every situation in my career with the attitude that I could do

whatever needed to be done, no matter what the circumstances. In fact, nine

years later I became the president of Ben Franklin, a promotion I attribute to

the confidence I gained that critical Tuesday.

Has anyone ever told you that you are an extraordinary person? If so, do

you remember how it made you feel? Better yet, have you ever told anyone

else that he is an extraordinary person, or have you ever made anyone feel

that she is extraordinary?

You and I can have a tremendous impact on the job performances of the

people around us—but more importantly, we can have an impact on their

entire lives. It could happen during a five-minute conversation, with just a

few words of encouragement delivered at the right time and in the right way.

The greatest joys I have had in my entire career are the times when

associates have come up to me, maybe even years later, and told me that I

had in some way impacted their lives: a kind word at just the right time, a pat

on the back for something they had done well, a word of encouragement

when their spirits were down, a listening ear when they needed to talk with

someone, even something I had said in a speech or a suggestion I had offered

them on how they could improve what they were doing. Some have even said

that they stayed with Wal-Mart because of something I had said that

encouraged them to carry on.

Life offers each of us many choices. What could be more rewarding than

knowing that you have positively influenced the lives of the people you have

encountered? What are you waiting for?

A Friendly Idea

An associate named Lois Richard at the Wal-Mart store in Crowley,

Louisiana, had a simple idea that launched a program throughout the entire

Wal-Mart chain, which has become one of the most recognized hallmarks of

the company. The store in Crowley had experienced a lot of shoplifting and,

as a result, it had a high inventory shrinkage rate year after year.

Lois’s husband was a police officer in town. One night she and her

husband were talking about the problem, and she came up with a great idea.

Lois went to her manager the next day and shared a new thought with him:

“Since we have such a great reputation for customer service, taking good care

of our customers and being a friendly store, what would happen if we put

someone up at the front of the store to greet customers as they came in? This

would make all of our customers feel even more welcome. At the same time,

this people-greeter would be a deterrent to shoplifting as they could watch

everyone going out the front door.”

The Wal-Mart Ownership Strategy

How can you create a sense of ownership in the minds and hearts of your people? The answer

is really quite simple: give them the chance to become owners. The way we have done that at

Wal-Mart is fourfold:

1. Make all associates feel like partners by treating them like partners.

2. Implement their ideas that benefit the company.

3. Share a portion of the profits with everyone.

4. Give everyone easy and enhanced opportunities to purchase Wal-Mart

stock and grow with the company.

Fortunately, she had a store manager who listened to her. He said, “That is

a great idea, Lois. Why don’t you be the first greeter? Let’s give it a try, but

let’s have everyone in the store spend a half hour up there greeting our

customers.” As everybody came in the front door, an associate was there to

tell each how happy we were to have them in the store. After one week,

everyone in town was buzzing about this people-greeter in the front of the

Wal-Mart store in Crowley, and many commented to the manager how

wonderful it felt to be welcomed into the store.

A week later, the district manager walked in, and Lois greeted him at the

front door. He didn’t understand what this was all about, so as soon as he saw

the manager he said, “What in the world is she doing up there? You can’t

afford that labor cost. It’s not in your budget.” The manager suggested that

the district manager talk to the customers and ask their opinions. The

response from the customers was overwhelmingly positive. The district

manager, who was a little skeptical when he first walked into the store, was

so impressed that he decided to put people-greeters in all ten of the stores in

his district.

Several weeks later, the regional vice president stopped in one of the stores

and received the same treatment. He raised the same question—is having a

greeter worth the labor cost?—and was amazed by the resounding answer

from customers as well. Ultimately, the regional vice president put a people

greeter in each of the one hundred stores in his region.