SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Child Safety Programs
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart created the Code Adam program to help find missing children in their stores, and partners with other organizations to support children's health and education.
KEYWORDS: Code Adam, Child Safety, Children's Miracle Network, Community Involvement
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Code Adam Program

Another system to help children who have been abducted, Code Adam (named after the slain son of children’s protection activist and television host John Walsh) became one of the largest child safety programs when it was rolled out in all Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club locations in 1995. Wal-Mart associates in Crawfordville, Indiana, created the special code and it soon spread to all locations.

Code Adam is simple. When a customer shopping in one of our stores reports a missing child to a store associate, a Code Adam is announced over the public-address system. A brief description of the child is provided to all designated associates who immediately stop their normal work to search for the child and monitor all exits to prevent the child from leaving or being taken from the store.

If the child is not found within ten minutes of initiating a search, or if the child is seen accompanied by someone other than a parent or guardian, store

personnel contact the local police department and request assistance.

Through a partnership with the NCMEC, the program has been shared with other companies. Currently, more than eighty Code Adam partners, including many other retailers, have implemented the program, covering more than forty-six thousand locations across the country.

In June 2003, the Code Adam Act of 2003 passed the United States Congress and mandates the implementation of the plan in all federal buildings. All of this has happened because a group of Wal-Mart associates in Crawfordville, Indiana, had the idea and made it work in their local store.

Supporting the Children’s Miracle Network

Obviously, children and education are priorities with us, and while the majority of our giving is applied to local needs, we do selectively contribute to several national organizations and special causes with the goal of helping children. Since 1986, when we became involved with the Children’s Miracle Network, which raises funds to enhance the equipment and services for more than 160 children’s hospitals in the country, we have been that outstanding organization’s largest contributor each year. We encourage our customers to make donations to the Children’s Miracle Network in our stores, and we contribute from the Wal-Mart Foundation. We also sponsor fund-raisers for this cause throughout the year. The money we raise in each Wal-Mart location goes directly to the children’s hospital closest to that location. In the eighteen years that Wal-Mart has been a contributor, we have sent over $250 million to these hospitals—over $28 million last year alone. While the checks are written to the hospitals, we look at it as though we are really giving to the needy children who are being ministered to in their time of need.

The Employer for Guard and Reserve organization has presented Wal-Mart with the prestigious Corporate Patriotism Award, an honor it bestows on a company that exhibits exceptional dedication to raising awareness and support of U.S. service members and their families.

Spreading Understanding of the Free-Enterprise System

We have also been a consistent contributor to Students in Free Enterprise (SIFE). This is an organization that mobilizes students in colleges and

universities across the country to develop projects both in the United States and around the globe that teach the principles of free enterprise. Since Wal- Mart is a great example of the success that can be achieved through the free- enterprise system, it seems only natural that we would be excited about an organization that does an outstanding job of encouraging and assisting students to promote this important part of our country’s heritage.

When we began supporting SIFE in 1987, there were only fifteen schools involved. Now, there are more than eight hundred colleges and universities in the U.S. and another eight hundred institutions overseas, including schools in many former Communist countries. These motivated students have a better understanding of the free-enterprise system than many businessmen and women do and are having an incredible impact on the millions of people they reach every year. These SIFE students are educating children, young people, and adults alike on how the free-enterprise system functions and how it has led to the prosperity we enjoy in the United States. Professors in the schools with a SIFE program, strongly committed to the free-enterprise system themselves, are their coaches and sponsors on campus.

Annually, after regional qualifying rounds, a national and international competition takes place between the top school teams, judged by the senior executives of some of the largest and most successful companies in the country. Having been a judge for a number of years, I myself can say that they are some of the brightest young people in our country and will be future leaders in our society. Wal-Mart, as numerous other companies have done, has recruited many of these students to become Wal-Mart associates. Many have advanced in the company and have been identified as high-potential leaders in Wal-Mart.

Patriotic Commitment

Another example of the impact that local stores and clubs are capable of is what we did in connection with the new World War II Memorial in Washington, D.C. In 2001, the local stores, clubs, and distribution centers raised $8.5 million through various activities with our customers, adding to the $6 million contribution made directly by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. The WWII memorial opened Memorial Day Weekend 2004, and the company

was represented at the ceremony not by our CEO, but by twenty WWII veterans who work for Wal-Mart today. Wal-Mart also undertook a similar effort to support the reopening of the Statue of Liberty, which had been closed since September 11, 2001.