SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Community Involvement and Philanthropy
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart encourages community involvement and philanthropy through a matching grant program and by supporting local organizations and causes.
KEYWORDS: community involvement, philanthropy, matching grants, local organizations, corporate social responsibility
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

The service we render others is the rent we pay for our room on earth.

—Wilfred Grenfell

Moreover, we believe that everyone in the company, not just managers, should be community-minded, and therefore we encourage all our associates to become involved in local organizations and volunteer their time. We even make contributions to the organizations they work with based on the number of hours they donate. As a result, each year Wal-Mart associates volunteer over one million hours (that we know about) of their personal time to local not-for-profit organizations.

To mobilize our community-building efforts, in 1979, Wal-Mart formally established the Wal-Mart Foundation. Today, the Wal-Mart Foundation has grown to be the largest corporate foundation in the nation in terms of cash giving. In fiscal year 2004, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. contributed more than $150 million to support communities and local nonprofit organizations. Customers and associates raised an additional $70 million at our stores and clubs for a total of over $220 million in contributions. The key focus areas are children’s health, local education, literacy, support to our veterans, and local community support in general.

Unlike many corporate grant-making foundations, the Wal-Mart Foundation program represents a true grassroots model for charitable giving.

Each store, club, and distribution center has its own budget for charitable giving, and each unit gives its money away one check at a time. Wal-Mart supports more than one hundred thousand organizations a year.

One dramatic illustration of Wal-Mart’s goal that giving be local, relevant, and responsive to the specific needs of each community we serve was what Mayor Dick Murphy of San Diego, California, reported: “Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club locations donated $400,000 in merchandise to San Diego County fire victims and $100,000 in cash, which went directly to the Red Cross to help support fire-relief efforts throughout San Diego County. With only two days till Halloween, local Wal-Mart associates volunteered countless hours and teamed up with the San Diego Padres to organize a Halloween party for over 400 children and their families who were victims of the fires. This type of corporate stewardship sends a positive message to the community that San Diego will persevere in this challenging time.”

It wasn’t the corporate home office that donated to the fire-relief efforts— it was a collection of local Wal-Marts in that area. And it wasn’t some distant and exotic crisis that Wal-Mart stores wanted to help—it was the situation the communities faced where they lived.

Community Involvement Through Matching Grants

The backbone of Wal-Mart’s local giving program is a matching grant program that encourages local groups to participate in their own fund-raising. We encourage them to have fund-raisers in our parking lots: bake sales, car washes, dunk tanks, car races, baseball games, and the like. Our foundation will match the money these organizations raise at those events up to a certain level. A matching grant is a way of making sure the organizations themselves are involved in the fund-raising process, giving back to the community, taking care of the customer, and having fun in the process. Each year, a typical store will touch twenty or more organizations through this program.

Everyone needs help from everyone.

—Bertolt Brecht

We place hourly associates in charge of our charitable giving in each

market, so it is not management but the hourly associates who decide by committee where donations will go: Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, or the high- school band that needs new uniforms. We want it to be an issue of ownership, of making sure our giving efforts stay local. Frankly, our hourly associates have a much better idea of what is important in a community than we could ever generate from the home office. When I hear some of the stories of particular outreach efforts, I am reminded of how terrific our associates are— they are caring people. They know where the real needs are in the community.

For many years now, Wal-Mart has encouraged the Salvation Army to place their kettles outside every Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club in the nation.

Even in the midst of all the decisions about where donations will go, it’s a given that in every community that has a local United Way, that organization will have our full support. We encourage our associates to contribute to United Way through the company, and we match, dollar for dollar, the donations our associates make. During fiscal 2004, Wal-Mart contributed $19 million to the United Way in our cities and towns across America. In some towns in which we opened stores that didn’t have a United Way, we were instrumental in getting one started in that community.

Each year we also give away thousands and thousands of dollars to local economic development projects in our communities, assisting in attracting other businesses to the areas as way of building and strengthening the local economies.

Just as with the company originally founded by Sam Walton, the strength of the Wal-Mart giving program is in its reliance on the local stores, clubs, and distribution centers to do what is right in their respective communities. Fortunately for many communities, this happens every day.

In recent years,Wal-Mart has developed a theme for our giving to the local communities: Good Works. If you think about it for a second, you can see that the phrase has a double or triple meaning: the projects themselves are good works; good works really do make a difference; and good people get things done!

Being a good and involved citizen has never been more important to Wal-

Mart than it is today. Indeed, charitable giving has become the centerpiece of the company’s legendary grand opening ceremony at every new store and club. Thousands of dollars are donated locally as part of every grand opening ceremony. Good marketing? Sure. But we truly believe it is critical for all of our new stores and clubs to get off on the right foot as a community-minded business.