SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Corporate Values and Ethics
SUMMARY: The text discusses how corporate success can lead to the erosion of values, and the importance of leadership in rediscovering and maintaining sound values within an organization.
KEYWORDS: corporate values, ethics, leadership, success, judeo-christian principles
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

Absolutes have become blurred at best.

Why? Why would values decay over time? I think several things threaten a

value system. In America, perhaps the single biggest issue is our own

success. We are part of the most prosperous generation and society in history.

Prosperity leads to materialism, which leads to a strong desire to get more for

ourselves—selfishness. Our selfishness causes us get so wrapped up in our

own needs, wants, and issues that we forget about others. Tragically, when

we forget about others, we often drift away from our core values.

In the same sense, I think that in the corporate world, success can tempt us

to think that we accomplished great things primarily on the basis of our own

personal talent and brilliance. The value system that brought us to a point of

success is no longer relevant or important. In recent years, we have seen too

many corporations, which seemingly had a sound set of values in the past,

somehow lose their way. Corporate prosperity has caused us to forget to

renew our values. The temptation is to let prosperity erode both personal and

corporate values, and this is why I agree wholeheartedly with the cliché: “The

only thing more dangerous than failure is success.” Too easily, we become

self-satisfied, self-reliant, and arrogant.

Gardner also states,“Each generation must rediscover the living elements

of its own tradition and adapt them to present realities. To assist in that

process of rediscovery is one of the tasks of leadership.”And many in

executive offices and boardrooms have overlooked this task. We’ve got to

help people rediscover sound values in our own organizations and in our

society.

The Golden Rule

The longer I was with Wal-Mart, the more I realized how fortunate I was

to be a part of a company whose standards were high—a company where

leadership believed that values were to be maintained despite all

circumstances, where I could blend my own values with the values that the

company believed in. In fact, in all my time with Wal-Mart, no one ever even

suggested that I do anything that was in conflict with my own spiritual

values. I’m not saying that Wal-Mart is a Christian company, but I can

unequivocally say that Sam founded the company on the Judeo-Christian

principles found in the Bible. While we had a diverse workforce that included

followers of the Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, Buddhist, Hindu, Islamic, and

other religions, the Golden Rule was the basis of how we expected people to

behave and how everyone should expect to be treated. That meant that

everyone understood what was right and what was wrong in interpersonal

relationships. There were absolutes. There was no confusion on those issues.

Sam understood that if you want to lead a company that exceeds the

expectations of the rest of the business world and accomplish your dreams,

you better set the bar high. He set high standards in his personal life and for

the company—he did not abdicate his role as a leader to perpetuate good

values.

I stated up front in this chapter that Wal-Mart’s competitive advantage is

not just merchandising and pricing strategies, but our culture. How about

your company? Is your corporate culture preparing you to reach your full

potential?

So leadership, true leadership, is always about struggle. It is about two things: one, having

values, and two, being willing to fight for those values. If you want to be a leader you must

have values, a set of beliefs, convictions, and ideals—a vision for your country, your

community, and your business. You must be willing to step into the arena and fight for those

values, for that “worthy cause.”

—Benjamin Netanyahu,

Former Prime Minister of Israel

Sam’s Can-Do Hula Dance

Our year-beginning meeting in January of 1983 began as other years: with

a challenge from Sam Walton. Sam challenged us to do better than we had

ever done before—to raise the bar, to reach higher. He suggested to all the

store managers and executives that if we treated our associates and customers

better than we ever had, we would in turn experience the greatest revenue

growth and highest profit margins in our corporate history. However, he

coyly hinted, no matter how well we did, it would probably be impossible for

us to reach an 8 percent pretax profit in that year. After some humorous

exchanges with the audience, Sam reluctantly agreed to do a hula dance on

Wall Street if we were able to reach the 8 percent mark.

The attitude of the individual determines the attitude of the group.

—John C. Maxwell

Our Wal-Mart associates accepted the challenge with gusto. Everyone

became engaged and worked enthusiastically to meet the goal. You know

what? By the end of the year we had done it, and everyone had had a lot of

fun in the process. True to his promise, on a very cold day in March of 1984,

Sam shocked everyone on Wall Street by doing his hula.

This story is not a new one—it’s been reported many times before. I’m not

sure, however, that everyone gets the life lessons from the story. Most leaders

would think that doing something like this was far below them, or that it was

just a silly publicity stunt. What I learned anew is how much people can

accomplish if you make work fun and get everyone involved. Sam’s

approachability and can-do attitude infected his whole organization. Hey, if

all it took was a hula, it was a small price to pay.

For reflection and action:

1. Have you ever sat down to write out your core values and beliefs? Have

you determined those issues on which you are unwilling to compromise?

This need not be an extensive list. Better to be diligent with just a few

essential beliefs than to consider many things important but never really

adhere to any of them.

2. Have you embraced the values of your organization? (Do you even know