SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Business Growth Strategy
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's growth strategy, including new formats and international expansion, has driven the company's continuous sales growth.
KEYWORDS: growth strategy, new formats, international expansion, customer satisfaction, charitable giving
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

—Shirley Mount Hufstedler

People who are not familiar with Wal-Mart don’t understand our resolve to make things work—the greater the challenge, the greater our determination.

New Formats

The sixth component of our growth strategy has been the addition of new formats. I’ve already mentioned the birth of Sam’s, Supercenters, international stores, and the newest format, the Neighborhood Markets. I can’t tell you today what new retail concepts will emerge for Wal-Mart in the future, but I can unequivocally state: if there is a better way to serve our customers, Wal-Mart will find it.

The Wal-Mart growth strategy is the engine that drives the company’s sales. Each of the six dynamics has played an important part in this continuous growth. That will be true in the future as well; however, an increasing percentage of our growth will come from the international division as we continue to bring everyday low prices and our brand of customer satisfaction to the countries we are already in and extend those values into other parts of the world.

International Wal-Mart Stores and Sam’s Clubs

* As of January 2005

For reflection and action:

Does your company or organization have a growth strategy that “the troops” understand and discuss?

Have you encountered the temptation to expand without investing solidly in your core business base? How do you balance growth of existing assets with adding new assets?

What would you be willing to do to see your company grow? Write down what you believe are the four to five essential components for your organization to grow.

How have you handled difficulties and obstacles to growth?

Chapter 12

Good Neighbors

Remember this: Whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows generously will also reap generously.

—Saint Paul (2 Corinthians 9:6)

Wal-Mart Way Principle #12

When you cultivate a spirit of charitable giving and civic involvement within your organization, you exponentially increase your tangible and intangible returns—including the personal character of your team.

There’s much talk these days about “corporate responsibility” and what is expected of business organizations regarding their obligation to society. We never approached the subject from that standpoint—in fact, we never debated or discussed our obligation or responsibility or our failure to meet our responsibilities. Rather, Wal-Mart has been involved in its communities and all forms of charitable giving from the very beginning—because Sam wanted to. It’s the way he thought. It’s the way he was. It’s the way our company grew. Our corporate giving is as much a part of our history and culture as anything else we do.

The Wal-Mart Philosophy of Giving

Like so many things at Wal-Mart, the company’s philosophy on community giving and involvement bears the handprint of Sam Walton. Sam expected his local stores to give back to their communities through charitable giving and strongly encouraged the personal involvement of store, club, and distribution managers in local activities. He certainly practiced what he preached. He was active as a community volunteer in Bentonville,Arkansas,

serving as chairman of the board of the Bentonville Chamber of Commerce and as an active member of numerous local civic organizations as well as statewide boards and personally participating in many important community issues.

He and his wife,Helen, had a particular interest in the field of education and helping young people. The family is carrying on that interest to this day through the Walton Family Foundation. Helen was a very active participant with Sam in all of their family outreach efforts. Her trademark message was that it is what you “scatter” in life, not what you “gather,” that ultimately defines the life you have led. In fact, the Helen Walton Community Involvement Award is given once a year to the store, club, and distribution center that best exemplifies her philosophy through its participation with its local community.

Now, some people will read the preceding paragraphs with skepticism. The thinking is that most companies are greedy and care only about bottom- line profits; that companies do charitable acts for the free publicity that usually accompanies compassionate outreach. Why would Sam—or the company he founded—be any different? It was Saint Paul who said, “A man reaps what he sows” (Gal. 6:7). In fact, I believe the greatest return from a company’s giving is not publicity, but a caring, generous workforce—and Wal-Mart has the greatest! That said, I do believe Sam had a sincere and generous heart when it came to giving, and he cultivated that personal commitment in his company.

We’re talking about the Wal-Mart culture. Sam wove caring throughout our culture. Wal-Mart not only cares about Wal-Mart customers and associates, but we also care about the vitality of the communities where we serve. We want to help worthwhile organizations and needy individuals. We care deeply about the health and well-being of our communities and the people who live there. We are not casual about giving. We have a clear purpose and direction that guides all of our decisions.

Wal-Mart’s style and philosophy of giving are not separate from our core business practices. Our goal has always been first and foremost to serve our customers, which is why we serve our communities, not as some face less

corporation, but as a good neighbor, and not because it’s a good marketing strategy, but because it’s the right thing to do.

Store of the Community

Wal-Mart wants to be a vital part of every community where we have an operating unit and help that community prosper and grow. We are not there simply to make money but to benefit that community as an active and contributing member. Store, club, and distribution center managers are expected to be involved in their communities in a personal way by serving on the local chamber of commerce boards, civic organizations, and school boards. While we are a national organization, our charitable activities are focused on each individual store and the people we serve there.

The service we render others is the rent we pay for our room on earth.

—Wilfred Grenfell