SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Policies and Benefits
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart promotes from within, provides competitive wages and benefits, and is a leading employer of diverse groups.
KEYWORDS: employee promotion, wage and benefits, workforce diversity
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Wal-Mart promotes from within. Seventy-six percent of Wal-Mart’s store management team started in hourly positions with the company.

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. promoted more than 9,000 hourly associates to management during the past year and many of those jobs did not require a college degree.

Frequently,Wal-Mart receives thousands of applications for our 400–500 job openings at a new supercenter. In New York,Wal-Mart estimated more than 15,000 applicants applied for 400 jobs at a new store.

Wal-Mart is a leading employer of African Americans (over 206,000

African American associates) and Hispanics (over 133,600 Hispanic associates) in the U.S.

In the United States,Wal-Mart is one of the largest employers of senior citizens.

Wal-Mart is proud of the more than 38,300 associates who have served in the military. The company provides continuation of benefits and makes up any difference between military pay and Wal-Mart wages for associates who are called to active duty.

Wage/Benefits for Associates

Our average wage for regular full-time hourly associates—such as cashiers, stockers and sales associates—is almost twice the federal minimum wage. No one at Wal-Mart is paid at or below the federal minimum wage.

Wal-Mart benefits—available to full and part-time associates—include healthcare insurance with no lifetime maximum.

Wal-Mart insures more than 900,000 Americans, who pay as little as $17.50 for individual coverage and $70.50 for family coverage bi-weekly.

Associates enrolled in the plan also have access to world class health care at the Mayo Clinic, Stanford University Hospital, Johns Hopkins University Hospital and many other health care facilities, all without insurance approval.

Other benefits include a profit sharing/401(k) plan, merchandise discounts, company-paid life insurance, vacation pay and pay differential for those in active military service.

More than half of Wal-Mart’s associates own company stock through our associate purchase plan.

Wal-Mart projects that the company will spend $4.1 billion on benefits for

our associates in fiscal year 2005.

Currently, 86 percent of Wal-Mart associates surveyed have medical insurance; 56 percent of those with coverage received healthcare insurance through Wal-Mart and the remainder received healthcare insurance through another source such as another employer, a family member, the military, or Medicare.

For reflection and action:

How would you rate yourself in the following areas?

I am interested in the well-being of others.

I believe that others offer perspectives and talents I don’t have.

I am a good listener.

I am open to new ideas—even if they are not my own.

I am careful to take note of how happy and satisfied others are.

I am an encourager.

Write down three or four ways you would like to grow—and help your organization grow—in people skills and attitudes.

Chapter 5

The Customer Is the Boss

It is not the employer who pays the wages. Employers only handle the money. It is the customer who pays the wages.

—Henry Ford

Wal-Mart Way Principle #5

You will succeed when you make a commitment to help your customers succeed first.

It doesn’t matter what business you are in, it is essential that the primary motivation and driving force behind everything you do is based on the impact it will have on your customer. Whenever we discussed a major change in any operating strategy at Wal-Mart, one of the first questions raised was: “How will this affect the customer?” It didn’t matter if it was in an executive committee meeting, a staff meeting, or a store meeting. Discussions always began and ended with the customer.

The customer is the only reason any of us are in business. And though none of us will ever attain perfection in providing the greatest value and service to the customer, from the beginning at Wal-Mart it was always the preeminent part of our decision-making process. It was the focus of everything we did.

To succeed, it is essential that everyone in an organization be passionate about the customer.

Customer Service—More Than Lip Service

Unfortunately, in too many companies, the leaders say all the right things,

but they don’t practice what they preach. They offer lip service regarding customer service, but in reality, the customer is the last one they consider; instead it’s sales revenues, profits, the stock price, marketing, shareholder value, and other business considerations. Don’t get me wrong: all aspects of your business plan are incredibly important for your long-term success. And all leaders must navigate the delicate balance between their customers and shareholders. But I argue that you won’t reach your potential as a company or organization until you put your customers first.

There are always many voices that speak up for profitability, but companies need just as many advocates for the customer, those who will always speak up about our responsibilities to the customer. There are generally fewer of those voices—and they often get drowned out in the clamoring for valid, yet derivative business matters. How can issues like profitability be derivative? Simple. They don’t happen without a loyal customer base!

Sam created a culture and environment in Wal-Mart where leadership encouraged every person at every level to serve as the voice of the customer. You can’t go through a day working at Wal-Mart without someone or something constantly reminding you of whom you really work for. Sam always said that we all had the same boss: the customer. As a matter of fact, that’s the only time we used the term “boss.” (To this day, I don’t like the word boss applied to a supervisor, manager, or leader. It is a word from the past, a residue of an autocratic style of leadership that does not reflect more enlightened understandings of leadership today.) The term boss wasn’t thrown around carelessly in Wal-Mart, and referring to our customers as our “boss”meant that we took our relationship with them very, very seriously.

Wal-Mart Merchandising Strategy—The Family Store