SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Customer Service and Satisfaction
SUMMARY: This text describes Wal-Mart's focus on exceeding customer expectations through empowered employees and regular market research to monitor and improve customer satisfaction.
KEYWORDS: customer service, customer satisfaction, market research, Wal-Mart, employee empowerment
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

door. He took me over to the frying pan display and asked which one was it. I pointed out to

him which one it was, and he handed it to me and said, “Please take this with Wal-Mart’s

compliments.” I said, “Wait a minute. This wasn’t your fault, it was my fault. You don’t need

to do that.”He repeated, “Please, take it with Wal-Mart’s compliments.” So I said to him,

“Why would you give me the frying pan when it wasn’t even your mistake?”And he said,

“You are more important to us than a frying pan.”

What an incredible line and what an incredible story. It is also an

incredible example of how you cannot put real customer satisfaction in

procedures or policies. It is written in someone’s heart and mind. It’s part of

the culture. It’s the way we do it here. Maldonado didn’t question whether he

had the authority to supply the lady with a frying pan. Yes, it would show up

as shrinkage on the financial reports for his store, but there was no question

about what was the right thing to do. He was going to take care of her no

matter what it took, and he did.

The customer wrote a letter to the editor of the local newspaper and it

appeared in the paper several days later. That’s fantastic—you can’t buy that

kind of advertising. That’s better than any ads we could have run on

television because it’s real. Exceeding customers’ expectations is what

satisfaction is all about.

Companies that at their core have a purpose beyond making money, normally end up being

the big winners over the long haul. I define purpose as the very definitive difference a

company and its people are trying to make in the marketplace. Sam Walton did not put it in

these words, but Wal-Mart, in my opinion, was founded and built on the purpose of

“democratizing merchandise.” With a low cost structure and a fanatical customer focus,

Wal-Mart became the great enabler, providing the opportunity for ordinary citizens to buy

the same things as rich people. In the process, they have almost single -handedly made the

“good life” within reach of most people here and around the world.

—Roy Spence, founder and president, GSD & M Advertising

Pete Maldonado didn’t make an extra sale that day, but he did make a

lifelong customer.

Market Research

One of the key methods we used to determine the level of our customers’

satisfaction was to have an independent market research firm contact, at

random, a percent of the customers in our trade territories and ask them a

series of questions about their perceptions of Wal-Mart and our competitors.

We did this each month.

We didn’t like to hear some of our customers’ comments, but they were

invaluable in letting us know their true feelings. We studied this survey

carefully to determine where we could improve our performance. It allowed

us to monitor our progress over time. This became a very valuable tool for us

as we grew larger, keeping us in tune with what was really going on at the

store level. It’s so easy when you become large to rest on your laurels and

become complacent. Problems can creep up on you, and you might not even

be aware that you are slipping. It is very important to maintain an objective

opinion about how well you are executing so you don’t fall asleep, as so

many companies have.

Many refer to this as “consumer research.” At this point I must confess that

I really dislike the word consumer—almost as much as I dislike the word

boss. I hear it used so often instead of customer. Consumers are statistics,

while customers are people. You can’t have a relationship with consumers,

but you can with people—and that’s what retailing is all about. A key to Wal-

Mart’s extraordinary success has been the relationships we have built with

our customers. I believe it is because they know that we really care about

them and their welfare.

For reflection and action:

1. Have you ever experienced great service at a restaurant or store or other

place of business? How did it make you feel as a person?

2. Do you ever give serious thought to the quality of service you are

providing in your business and community? Have you found effective

ways to communicate that these people are important to you?

3. What barriers, if any, stand between you and satisfying your customers?

Are you willing to tackle those barriers in order to serve your customers

well?

4. How important would your business associates say customer satisfaction is

to you? How about your customers?

Chapter 6

A Passion for Excellence

Leadership is the art of accomplishing more than the science of management says is possible.

—Former Secretary of State Colin Powell

Wal-Mart Way Principle #6

Achieving excellence becomes a reality when you set high expectations, humbly face and correct your

mistakes, stay optimistic, and avoid the quicksand of complacency.

I

joined Wal-Mart Stores in April 1980. Our sales were strong going into the

holidays that year, and we had a tremendous selling season between

Thanksgiving and Christmas. When I came into the Friday morning meeting

the week after Christmas and confirmed that sales had risen nearly 40 percent

from the same period in the previous year, I was amazed and extremely

excited. I had never seen such a large increase with an established company,

especially during what was already the highest sales volume period of the

year.

If this had happened anywhere else I had ever worked, it would have been

cause for a major celebration. Little did I know that I was about to enter

Sam’s Wal-Mart Way classroom once again.

Excellence Means “Correction of Errors”

Sam began the meeting by thanking everyone for a great job. We discussed

a few of the very positive things that we had done, but after only five minutes