SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Business Strategy and Operations
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's relentless pursuit of excellence, execution, technology, logistics, supplier relationships, and growth strategy have been key drivers of its success.
KEYWORDS: business excellence, operational efficiency, technology adoption, supply chain management, supplier relationships
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

business. We are always striving to get better and to be the best that we can

be. As a result, we are not afraid to change and, in fact, we embrace change

proactively. We don’t wait for major problems to arise but attempt to make

improvements to systems and dynamics that are already working

comparatively well.

7. Wal-Mart thrives on execution, on making things happen, on a can-do

attitude. This means getting the job done and achieving objectives with

record speed and accuracy. It means guarding against an increasingly

complex and self-serving bureaucracy. A company can have a wonderful

vision and an excellent product, but the people must execute for that vision

and product to go anywhere. In that same regard, we believe that

everything we do should be done with a sense of urgency—no delays, no

excuses, no red tape—do it now! As part of our determination to execute

well, we pay close attention to details at all levels. We believe that even

when a person is promoted or becomes an officer of the company, he or

she still has a responsibility to stay appropriately involved in the frontline

details of our business.

8. From the very beginning, Wal-Mart invested and continues to invest

significant capital in the practical application of technology. Many

companies have made enormous expenditures in the area of technology,

with poor returns. The key to achieving strong returns on investment is to

tie all system development and implementation into your most vital

business functions. For Wal-Mart, that kept technology focused on

customer satisfaction, which has in turn made technological prowess a key

competitive advantage for Wal-Mart.

9. Wal-Mart’s quest for excellence kept us working on the most basic

operations in our business. The simple act of getting our merchandise from

the supplier’s dock to the store shelf received numerous makeovers, and

we made an art of stripping excess cost and waste of any kind from our

logistics operations. We ended up revolutionizing supply-chain

management for the entire retail industry.

10. Wal-Mart fostered relationships with suppliers based on openness and

trust—again, revolutionizing the way business is done in an entire

industry. Every business enterprise involves relationships, whether they are

among your own associates, your customers, your suppliers, your board of

directors, your shareholders, or your communities. W believe that these

relationships must be maintained at the highest level of honesty and candor

at all times. Trust relationships ultimately are the basis of any long-term

loyalty and create a climate of success for all parties.

11. Wal-Mart implemented a carefully thought-out and tenacious growth

strategy, plowing a large percentage of profits back into the company to

aggressively expand into new markets and to equally aggressively

revitalize existing stores, clubs, and distribution centers.

12. Wal-Mart made an early commitment to corporate responsibility. We still

believe that it is important to invest back into the communities we serve

and into the lives of our customers. We have never done it out of a sense of

obligation or in order to get publicity for what we do, but rather because

we believed it was the right thing to do and wanted to be instrumental in

the growth, well-being, and prosperity of our communities.

As icing on the cake, we not only worked hard—but we had a lot of fun

doing it. We never saw the dynamics of work and fun as incompatible. If

you’re going to spend a large percentage of your waking hours at work, why

not enjoy it? We kept it informal and comfortable with everyone, joked

around a little—often at the expense of senior management—and did all we

could to create a fun, upbeat environment that would take the drudgery out of

the day-to-day routine and provide a positive atmosphere for everyone.

This, in a nutshell, is the Wal-Mart Way. What do you think so far?

Maybe you’re not convinced it is applicable in your organization or

company. Maybe you’re not yet persuaded that our success was based on a

carefully crafted set of principles but was more a matter of luck and timing.

Maybe you’re already completely satisfied with how your organization does

things. Maybe you’re overwhelmed by a seemingly endless array of

challenges and problems in your company. But, just maybe, you are open to

testing the waters and learning from one company’s experience and story.

The secret of success in life is for a man to be ready for his opportunity when it comes.

—Benjamin Disraeli

Okay, I’ll tell you a secret after all. The principles I share with you in the

following pages will dramatically work for you too. I know firsthand,

because I was there!

In 1980, I joined Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., as executive vice president and

served in several other executive positions until my appointment in early

1988 to vice chairman and chief operating officer. In January 1999 I was

promoted to senior vice chairman of the corporation.

For Reflection and Action:

1. What factors would you say have been most instrumental in your

organization’s successes? Your personal success?

2. What new attitudes and actions do you need to adopt to make your

business more successful?

3. Finish this sentence: The one thing that I most hope to get out of reading

this book is . . .

Chapter 1

Growing Dreams

The uncommon man is merely the common man thinking and dreaming of success in larger

terms and in more fruitful areas.

—Melvin Powers

Wal-Mart Way Principle #1

Every successful venture begins with a dream that requires determination, passion, and the willingness

to grow if it is to be fulfilled.

O

nce upon a time there was a man, and that man had a dream. In some ways

it was an ordinary dream, not so different from the dreams of millions of

others. But it was also uncommon as dreams go. It wasn’t to build the tallest

building in the world or to build the longest bridge. It wasn’t to make a