SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Corporate Culture and Teambuilding
SUMMARY: The text describes the weekly Wal-Mart meeting, which fostered teamwork, enthusiasm, and a focus on the customer through cheers, recognition, and open dialogue.
KEYWORDS: corporate culture, teambuilding, customer focus
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

"Give me a T" "T"

"What does that spell?" "WAL-MART"

"I can’t hear you!" "WAL-MART"

"Whose Wal-Mart is it?" "It's my WAL-MART"

"Who's number one?" "The customer! Always! Umph!"

What in the world is a squiggly? First of all, it’s a substitute for the hyphen.Second, it is a

body action of bending the knees as if you are sitting down at the same time that you move

your bent arms in a backward and forward motion. It adds some motion and fun to the cheer.

This cheer is the standard beginning and ending of most every meeting in Wal-Mart. For

people outside of Wal-Mart, it seems silly to some and ridiculous to others, but they just don’t

understand. The cheer goes back into the 1970s and represents several very important

elements of the culture. First of all, it represents teamwork;that we are in this together; that it

takes each one of us. Second, it represents our informality, our enthusiasm, and the fact that

we have a lot of fun. It also is a constant reminder of the fact that the customer is the reason

we are in business.

Buyers usually had new items or categories to show to the assembled

group, and sometimes the suppliers of that merchandise were invited to make

comments about their products. We even had occasional fashion shows of

new lines of apparel, especially at the changing of the seasons. It didn’t

matter whether you were in accounting, the People Division, warehousing, or

real estate, everyone understood that merchandise drove sales and, as a result,

everybody was immersed in merchandise during these meetings.

It was also a time to honor associates. We gave special attention to those

who were celebrating anniversaries with the company anywhere from ten

years on up and in five-year increments. And from time to time we brought in

from the field associates who had done something special for a customer or

accomplished something unusual for the company, and we as a group

honored them. Some of these had participated in really spectacular events,

such as saving a customer’s or another associate’s life.

Frequently we asked the associates if they had been in the field that week,

and we asked them to share what they saw in our stores or our competitors’

stores—both good and bad. We talked a lot about our competitors, with an

emphasis on what they were doing better than we were and what we could

learn from them.

Anyone in the audience could raise a question or share a story or an

observation about something that had happened during the week that the

group might find interesting. Have you ever had a dialogue with a thousand

or more people? Well, we did.

This meeting usually was very positive and was an exciting pep rally for

the Wal-Mart family. Sam even had some sing-alongs or talent contests when

he felt we needed a little boost in morale, though we didn’t hesitate to address

problems and other serious matters with the whole group when appropriate.

While it followed a basic pattern from week to week, the meeting’s activities

were very spontaneous and informal—almost anything could happen, and

sometimes anything did.

It was also a time for senior leadership members to share how they felt

about the business, the concerns they had, what associates should be focusing

on, and what they were seeing in the stores and clubs. We also addressed

principles of leadership in an informal and comfortable way. It was, again, an

important time to share the company values and core beliefs. It was a time to

share stories about our lessons from the past and new stories from today. It

was the Wal-Mart “campfire meeting” where leadership passed on its

heritage.

From time to time, we invited an outside speaker to share his or her

leadership principles with us. These people’s comments tended to reinforce

the Wal-Mart principles and had a powerful effect coming from well-

respected leaders outside our company. We invited some very well-known

public figures, such as legendary stock market investor Warren Buffet,

former U.S. Congressman Newt Gingrich, and General Tommy Franks, as

well as the CEOs of many leading companies in the U.S. such as Herb

Kelleher of Southwest Airlines and John Pepper of Procter & Gamble.

Our suppliers sometimes invited celebrities and sports figures to come and

speak to the group, including such people as Mary Lou Retton, Don Shula,

Hank Aaron, Nolan Ryan, Joe Montana, and Dan Marino. Musicians Marie

Osmond, Amy Grant, and Steven Curtis Chapman came and entertained the

associates and often shared their personal life principles with us as well. It

was always exciting to have such prominent figures come and speak to us,

but it was also a learning experience. Can you imagine getting all of these

people to come to Bentonville, Arkansas, at 7:30 on a Saturday morning for

any other reason than to speak to Wal-Mart leaders?

We’re always looking for new ways to define and maintain our culture. A

number of years ago—as a matter of fact, right after Sam passed away—we

dedicated the first Saturday of every month to discussing and reinforcing our

culture. We selected one or more of our management associates from

different departments throughout the company to prepare a presentation for

all home office management associates. We gave these individuals a topic

several weeks in advance and asked them to share their understanding of that

aspect of our culture. These sessions proved to be a constant refreshment and

reminder for those associates who had been a part of the company for a long

time, and they also served as a learning experience and encouragement for

new associates who had recently joined Wal-Mart.

How do you keep the culture of a company alive and well? It does not

happen by osmosis. You communicate, communicate, communicate—any

way you can and as frequently as you can in words and in actions.

Sharing Culture in a New Market