SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Company Culture Preservation
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's strategy to maintain its strong corporate culture when opening new stores and distribution centers, including selecting experienced managers, training new associates, and demonstrating the culture through actions.
KEYWORDS: corporate culture, new store openings, employee training, management selection, cultural preservation
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

aspect of our culture. These sessions proved to be a constant refreshment and

reminder for those associates who had been a part of the company for a long

time, and they also served as a learning experience and encouragement for

new associates who had recently joined Wal-Mart.

How do you keep the culture of a company alive and well? It does not

happen by osmosis. You communicate, communicate, communicate—any

way you can and as frequently as you can in words and in actions.

Sharing Culture in a New Market

How can a company open well over three hundred new stores and clubs

every year in new markets across the country, hire four hundred to five

hundred new associates in each of the stores and another two hundred

associates in each of the clubs, set up and open the new units in five weeks or

less, and at the same time perpetuate the culture with all those new

associates?

Now add to those numbers the opening of ten to twelve new automated

distribution centers averaging 1.2 million square feet, and then hiring and

training five hundred to six hundred new associates for each of those centers.

Be assured it takes a lot of hard work, coordination, communication—and

intentionality. Here’s how it is done in a Wal-Mart store or club, and

similarly in one of the new distribution centers:

1. Pick the right person to be the manager.

2. Support that person with an experienced team.

3. Hire the right people.

4. Explain to each person what is expected of him or her as a part of his or

her training.

5. Make the setup fun.

6. Demonstrate the culture by action from day one.

7. Work hard.

Wal-Mart doesn’t hire store managers from the outside. The only

associates chosen to run a new store are ones who have been with the

company long enough to demonstrate that they are capable, care about

people, and understand and embrace the Wal-Mart culture.

In addition to the store manager, assistant store managers from other stores

are selected to become a part of the support staff for each new store.

Frequently, a few experienced department managers and store associates

from neighboring stores choose to move to the new store, in many cases

being promoted to new positions.

The next step is to select a small group of assistant managers and

department managers from other stores to come in for the first four to five

weeks to be part of the training of newly hired associates for the new store.

These trainers are experienced Wal-Mart associates for the most part, but the

training experience sharpens them as well.

The final part of the support staff in every new store is a team called Store

Planning, comprised of dedicated, hardworking, and enthusiastic specialists

in new store openings. There may be only three to five members of the Store

Planning team in every store, but they are pivotal in getting the store off the

ground.

These associates travel from one new store to another and spend

approximately six weeks in each location. Their primary responsibility is to

coordinate all activities associated with opening the store. When they arrive

on location, they walk into a completely empty building. They assist the store

management and the visiting assistant managers in hiring all new associates,

training them, setting up all fixtures, unpacking and placing all merchandise

on the shelves, pricing the merchandise, putting up all signage, and seeing to

a myriad of other details that give the manager a chance to hit the ground

running. As important as their responsibility for details, however, from day

one, they begin the process of sharing the Wal-Mart values and culture with

the new associates not only verbally but, more importantly, by their actions.

Perpetuating our culture with new associates actually begins before they

are even hired! Wal-Mart has been fortunate to have plenty of people who

want to come work for us—many more applicants than job openings. This

means that the hiring team can be selective about whom it chooses and

actively look for people who will be receptive to the Wal-Mart culture. This

is critical. These are the people who will be the Wal-Mart representatives to

the customers. Every company wants to have people who are capable,

pleasant, positive, and cooperative. We always encouraged our managers to

“hire happy people.” Why? The Wal-Mart culture is characterized by a

positive attitude, which is easier to hire than create.

As soon as managers have assembled a crew of new associates, training

begins. In addition to learning the culture, the brand-new associates will be

learning to do many things they have never done before. Computers are used

for some of the training and the rest is done one-on-one or in very small

groups, which again reinforces the expectations and attitudes of the company.

In four to five weeks, the trainers will be gone and the new team must be

prepared to operate the store on its own, without the guidance of the

specialized store setup team.

During the setup, everyone works hard! The Store Planning managers do

many things to make the process fun and enhance the learning curve. They

hold contests, dress in funny costumes, and basically do whatever it takes to

get the job done and build morale. They poke fun at themselves and everyone

learns the “Wal-Mart cheer” (see page 36). At every store opening that I have

ever attended, the associates have always been fired up and ready to go. I

have even been to openings where one or more members of the management

team has had to shave his head or some other silly thing on a dare because the

associates achieved a certain challenging goal. Part of the Wal-Mart culture is

having fun, and that begins before the store is even open.

It is a fact that you project what you are.

—Norman Vincent Peale

Throughout the setup process, the in-store management and the Store