SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses a Wal-Mart employee termination case, where the CEO intervened to rehire the employee, reinforcing the company's open-door policy.
KEYWORDS: employee management, open-door policy, termination, communication, Wal-Mart
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

mysteriously not show up at his destination, or he would arrive to work late for his outbound trip. The trucking management team followed all the correct procedures in counseling him to improve his performance. It finally got to a place where I was told, “Don, we have to terminate this man. He is not doing his job, and we have done everything we can.” I looked at all the documentation and everything looked proper to me, so we fired him.

The next day, Sam came into my office and said, “Don, I understand you fired So-and-So.”

I said, “Yes, Sam, he’s not been performing. He’s very undependable—we can’t count on him. The trucking management did a good job of coaching and counseling him, and he still doesn’t respond. So I agreed with the termination. By the way, how’d you hear about it?”

“Oh, he came into my office early this morning and expressed his concern,” Sam answered and then said,“Don, after talking with him for a while, I want you to hire him back.”

“What do you mean, Sam? He hasn’t been performing for a long time.” I had a lump in my throat.

“Don, I listened to the guy, and I want you to hire him back.” “Sam, I hate to go against what our people have already done. They

documented all their efforts, and I think they’ve gone above and beyond.

They worked hard on it.” “Don, hire him back.”

“Sam, why would we do that? He’s not a good performer.”

Sam was kind to extend the Open Door to me during this conversation, and though I didn’t agree with him at the time, he explained his reasoning. “Don, I’ll tell you. First of all, sometimes you have to overrule your people. If you don’t overrule sometimes, the Open Door does not work, and the Open Door is going to work in this company, so hire him back. The second thing, Don: if he is as bad as you say he is—and after talking to him, I’m not convinced he is—then he is going to have an ongoing problem. If he does, then you can terminate him again, and then he’ll stay gone.”

I had to do something I didn’t want to do. I had to go to Lee Scott, the head of the trucking department at that time (and later the CEO of Wal-Mart) to instruct him to hire the truck driver back. He asked the same questions of me that I had asked of Sam. He definitely felt the same as I did, so I went through the same routine with him that Sam had gone through with me. We swallowed our pride, and the truck driver was hired back. We braced ourselves for the repercussions. But the word spread through the entire trucking department that the Open Door worked. And in this case it did. Of course, in this incident, the door swung both ways—and the driver changed his ways.

Some would say this undermined Lee’s and my authority and overall weakened management. When I was telling Lee to unfire the driver, I was one who believed that! But it dramatically reinforced an important ingredient in the communication link with associates. A truck driver could have direct access to the CEO. That’s really pretty special.

What’s Going on at the Grassroots Level?

Direct communication with our associates has always been a priority with Wal-Mart, and we didn’t wait for them to come to us. We were always trying to find new ways to hear what was on their minds.

In the 1970s, Sam initiated what became known as Grassroots Meetings.

Every department in the home office, stores, clubs, warehouses, dispatch offices—all operating units—would have a meeting of all associates once every year. The purpose of the meetings was not to talk to the associates but rather to listen to them, to hear what was on their minds about the company. We tried to have at least two levels of management present to listen to what the associates had to say and try to answer any questions. We wanted to find out: What can we do to make the company better? And what can we do to help you do your job better?

Managers took notes at all meetings and posted key responses on the bulletin boards. When a manager couldn’t answer the questions locally, he or she forwarded them to the home office for responses. Many of the best ideas we implemented as a company have come from those meetings. A good

example was the 401(k) program, which was the recommendation of the associates.

Our point was not to just give our associates a single opportunity to express concerns and ideas each year. The Grassroots Meetings were designed to help all of our associates realize that they should be bringing things up to their supervisors and managers throughout the year.

As we got larger and it became harder for everyone who wanted to speak to do so, we added an anonymous opinion survey that contained over one hundred questions on the full gamut of subjects affecting associates and the company. We then shared a report broken down by operating unit and overall company with all associates, and we covered key issues at the next Grassroots—both the company’s strong points and weak points.

Our Grassroots Meeting system was just one of the many ways we tried to communicate to our associates that we would do our best to take better care of them if they would do their best to communicate with management.

Commitment or Compliance?

When workers are given their basic human dignity, they achieve all kinds of great things for the company. But how do you measure a worker’s ability to make an impact on a company?