SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: The text describes Wal-Mart's focus on customer satisfaction through programs like VPI that engage employees and drive merchandise sales.
KEYWORDS: customer satisfaction, employee engagement, merchandise strategy, retail competition, Wal-Mart culture
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

are merchants first.” That was even a motto in the technology department.

One of the most successful—and entertaining—programs we developed

was called “VPI,” which stands for a Volume-Producing Item. Every

department manager in every store selects an item that he or she believes can

become a fast seller. They then feature the items in their stores, perhaps on an

end cap or with special signage, and keep track of the sales of that item.

Meanwhile, the store managers and assistants also pick an item. So all

throughout the store a friendly competition begins—to see whose item does

the best. At the home office, all officers pick an item, and so do many of the

home office departments.

Each month, at a Saturday morning meeting, management shares a recap

with the entire group of the year-to-date standings of each individual. A great

deal of good-natured competition and kidding goes on—who kids whom

depends on who is in what place. At the end of the year, there is a big

ceremony where the individual who has chosen the worst-performing item

receives the FISH award. You have heard of different methods of valuing

inventory—FIFO means First-In-First-Out; LIFO means Last-In-First-Out.

FISH is a Wal-Mart-only method used just for the VPI contest that means

First-In-Still-Here. The dubious winner of that award is presented with a

large, smelly fish on a platter in front of about five thousand to six thousand

associates at a year-beginning meeting.

It’s a fun exercise that feels a little like a Super Bowl party with friends

who are rooting for opposite teams. But the whole point of VPI is to focus

everyone’s attention on merchandise. Many things in any business can be a

lot of fun but also contain a great lesson. VPI and the dreaded FISH award

already belong to Wal-Mart. You need to create your own programs that

combine entertainment and education. What we needed to accomplish was

keeping the entire company in the loop concerning merchandise.

Customer Service—or Customer Satisfaction?

Despite the counsel of seminar speakers and textbook writers, customer

service is not how you identify with your customers. If your company is to

succeed, your emphasis must rather be on customer satisfaction. You can

serve people without satisfying them, but it’s impossible to satisfy them

without serving them. Satisfaction is the goal, and at Wal-Mart we

determined to accept nothing short of that because we knew that when

customers are satisfied over a long period of time, that’s when we create

trust. And trust is the foundation of every relationship in life. I can’t

emphasize that enough or repeat it enough times, and yet companies so easily

take it for granted.

Exceed your customers’ expectations.If you do, they’ll come back over and over. Give them what they

want, and a little more.

—Sam Walton

In every market research survey we ever commissioned, customers always

rated Wal-Mart the company they most trusted. It is in the process of

satisfying customers that you create trust, and ultimately trust leads to

loyalty. In any business, customer loyalty can’t be bought—it can only be

earned, and trust is the most important reason customers keep coming back.

You can spend a lot of time and money trying to attract new customers, and

yes, every business must do that, but it is even more important—and costs a

lot less money—to keep the customers you already have.

Treat Customers As If They Were Guests in Your Home

A lot more than merchandise choices and pricing goes into providing a

great shopping experience for your customers. First of all, a unique shopping

experience for most people includes a friendly atmosphere. Sounds too

simple, but think about what goes into motivating tens of thousands of

associates in thousands of locations to be friendly to every single customer

every day. Many of us struggle to pull off that feat in our own homes!

An analyst asked David Glass, during his tenure as president and CEO of

Wal-Mart,“How do you run a company that has sales of over $100 billion?”

David’s reply was, “I don’t have the slightest idea; we just do it one store at a

time, one customer at a time, one day at a time.” While that sounds too

simplistic, possibly even humorous, it’s a fantastic response. The point is that

you must concentrate all of your energies on satisfying every single customer

on every single visit he or she makes to your store every single day.

Our People Make the Difference

A friendly atmosphere begins with wonderfully friendly associates in our

stores. They are the heart and soul of Wart-Mart’s customer-satisfaction

program. They are the ones who meet and greet each customer each day.

They are the ones who represent Wal-Mart to every customer. If they are

outgoing and pleasant, then Wal-Mart is outgoing and pleasant; if they are

curt and distant and distracted, then Wal-Mart is curt and distant and

distracted. The associates are literally the face, the hands, and the voice of

Wal-Mart. It is what the associates in the stores do that is responsible for the

outstanding reputation we have enjoyed over the years. They are friendly

even when dealing with angry and unfriendly customers, and even when they

are dealing with their own personal problems at home or work.

I mentioned earlier that you can’t work a single day without someone or

something reminding you how important the customer is. Our associates have

bought into Sam’s vision. They believe in the company and what we stand

for. And it shows up every time a customer enters the store.

How do you create a friendly workforce? One of the simplest ways is to

hire cheerful people. For Wal-Mart then, our friendliness begins with the

hiring process. We look for positive, outgoing people—people we would

enjoy talking to and working with. So we ask our associates if they have

friends that would like to work here—people they would recommend. In