SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Operations and Leadership
SUMMARY: The text discusses the Wal-Mart Way, emphasizing the importance of vision, humility, and excellence in driving organizational success.
KEYWORDS: operations, leadership, Wal-Mart, vision, excellence
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

operations and logistics, while driving out unnecessary costs.

I know that such bold talk may turn some people off because it sounds too

simple, perhaps a little trite, and for sure quite arrogant. (Of course, I don’t

think Sir Edmund Hillary would have reached the summit of Mt. Everest

were it not for bit of boldness.) I confess that I like to keep things simple, and

I never want to be trite or arrogant. But I feel justified in being so

straightforward in these closing pages because the Wal-Mart record stands

for itself. Others could have done what Wal-Mart did—and tried. But only

Wal-Mart became and is Wal-Mart.

I’m proud of the opportunity I had to be a part of one of the greatest

business stories ever told. I am thankful every day to Sam Walton, who

trusted me and gave me that opportunity.

And now my hope for you is that in at least a few small ways (and perhaps

on a deep and profound level) your heart, mind, and soul will be inspired by

The Wal-Mart Way and that it will show you some new ways to make your

organization more vital—and to help you to grow as a person and build on

your own dreams.

Wherever you are on your journey, whatever mountain you must climb to

reach your destination, know that you can get there . . .

• as long as you have a vision to help others.

• as long as you stay true to that vision and treat others with dignity and

respect.

• as long as you provide more than your customers expect, work with

excellence, stay humble, and always look for ways to do things better.

• as long as you share your blessings with others.

If you follow those principles, you just might discover that even greater

opportunities and tasks await you. In the words of former U. N. General

Secretary Dag Hammarskjöld:

Never measure the height of a mountain, until you have reached the top.Then you will see

how low it was.

May God bless you on your way!

About the Author

Don Soderquist joined Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., in 1980 where he served as

executive vice president, vice chairman and chief operating officer, and

finally senior vice chairman. Continuing Sam Walton’s legacy, he became

known as the “keeper of the culture.” As CEO, Don led Wal-Mart during a

period of exponential growth as it grew from the largest retailer in the world

to the largest company in the world.

Don received his B. A. degree in Business Administration from Wheaton

College in Illinois. In 1996, Don was inducted into the Retailing Hall of

Fame, and in 1998, John Brown University created the Soderquist Center for

Business Leadership and Ethics in his honor.

Acknowledgments

There are many people who have provided support and encouragement in

the writing of this book. It would be impossible to include the names of all of

them because my story really began in April, 1980, when I responded to Sam

Walton’s invitation to move my family to Bentonville, Arkansas, and join

this relatively small discount store chain. Over the years there were literally

thousands of Wal-Mart associates and supplier representatives who played an

important part in my understanding of the principles I have attempted to

share with you. In the beginning, I thought that the success was as a result of

what we did. After being with the company for a few years, it became

apparent that it was really because of what we believed and how that was

reflected in our culture.

After I retired from Wal-Mart, Ken Blanchard, the author of many books

including The One Minute Manager®, became a constant encourager to share

my view of the magic behind the success of Wal-Mart. He even spent

personal time with me sharing his thoughts about my approach to writing the

book. My wife, Jo, and our children and their spouses also believed that my

perspective could be helpful to present and future leaders in all fields of

endeavor. I am also grateful to a number of friends I have known along the

way—who also know Wal-Mart—who honored me by providing quotes and

endorsements.

Mark Gilroy, a gifted writer, was extremely helpful in taking my

manuscript in rough form and challenging my organization and structure,

smoothing the transitions, clarifying my thoughts and words, and articulating

the principles.

I am thankful for my team at Thomas Nelson: the encouragement from

Jonathan Merkh and the editing talents of Brian Hampton and Kyle Olund

(along with a little last-minute help from Kristen Lucas).

Many, many Wal-Mart associates and executives who reminded me of the

details of their special experiences including Lois Richard, Pete Maldanado,

Del Sloneker, Sam Dunn, and Harry Jordan. Numerous Wal- Mart suppliers

with particular help from Max Appel on his wonderful story of

entrepreneurship.

I greatly appreciate the research assistance, as well as careful scrutiny of

the facts, by Rex Horner, Jay Allen, Bob Connolly, Rick Tuel, Fred Disch,

and Tom Hyde from Wal-Mart; retired Wal-Mart executive Paul Higham,

and John Spenst of the Soderquist Center for Leadership and Ethics.

Finally, for their assistance in clerical and detail follow-up I appreciate my

assistant, Pat McKee, as well as Beverly Turrentine, Sarah Clark, Jennifer

Harris-Frowen, Julie Mitchell, Dawn Hollabaugh, Andy Wilson, and all the

associates at the Soderquist Center for Leadership and Ethics.

APPENDIX A

The Wal-Mart Way Principles

Wal-Mart Way Principle # 1

Every successful venture begins with a dream that requires determination,

passion, and the willingness to grow if it is to be fulfilled.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #2

You must have a vision that allows you to see a bigger, better, stronger you in

the future—while never taking your eyes off of who you are and what you

are doing today.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #3

To build a great company, you must create a culture where everyone shares

the same values, purposes, and expectations of success.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #4