SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Operations and Supply Chain Management
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's focus on leveraging technology and efficient logistics to offer lower prices and better customer satisfaction.
KEYWORDS: supply chain, logistics, technology, cost reduction, customer satisfaction
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

because twenty dollars buys three decent toys at Wal-Mart. Wal-Mart offers lower prices not

because it uses factories in China (other stores use the same factories); not because it pays

lower wages than other stores; but because its huge investment in information and

communications technology allows it to match its wholesale purchases more carefully and

2

quickly to consumer demand, avoiding waste and greatly lowering its costs.

For reflection and action:

1. How would you rate your personal use of the various tools and resources

you have available to you? Do you make things harder than they have to

be?

The first rule of any technology used in a business is that automation applied to an efficient

operation will magnify the efficiency. The second is that automation applied to an inefficient

operation will magnify the inefficiency.

—Bill Gates

2. How effective do you feel your company is in the use of technology?

3. Do you feel that you’ve personally maximized the use of technology in

your responsibility areas?

4. What are some simple, practical ways you could improve your decision

making by a better approach to acquiring and processing information?

Chapter 9

Reinventing the Supply Chain

You will not find it difficult to prove that battles, campaigns, and even wars have been won or

lost primarily because of logistics.

—General Dwight D. Eisenhower

Wal-Mart Way Principle #9

The most basic operations in your company represent tremendous opportunities for improvement,

growth, and savings. Don’t overlook the obvious.

W

al-Mart grew into the largest company in the world out of one man’s

vision to improve the standard of living for millions of everyday people. He

helped this cause by treating his team with respect and dignity—and they

have always worked hard for Sam and his company. He kept the customer as

his number-one priority, even passing on savings in the form of price

reductions that many thought cut too deeply into margins. He built a culture

of enthusiasm, hard work, and integrity. He tirelessly inspected what he

expected, spending major portions of his workweek on the road and in his

stores. He never stopped learning and growing. Early on, he recognized the

potential of technology to support his company’s vision, customers, and

associates—and began a pattern of significant investment. He passed on his

way of thinking and doing—the Wal-Mart Way—to a new generation of

leaders who have stayed true to Sam’s mandates.

Sam saw the grand picture, but he never lost sight of the details big or

small. Nowhere was this more evident than in the area of logistics, which,

hand in hand with Wal-Mart’s use of technology, allowed the company to

blow past competitors in areas of cost, real-time management of merchandise,

and customer satisfaction.

Logistics is a term borrowed from the military, which refers to the

acquisition and the movement of materials for the troops. It has been used in

retailing for quite some time. It is basically the flow of merchandise from the

manufacturer’s dock to the retail counter. That sounds simple enough—so

why would I put logistics on the list of major factors and core competencies

impacting the success of Wal-Mart? Sure, there may be minor savings, but

isn’t logistics a finite process that doesn’t really add top-line growth to the

company’s financial sheet? And doesn’t every retailer have the same set of

issues to deal with, which is basically moving boxes from point A to point B?

How different can you really make a warehouse look and work?

In the past, retailers and manufacturers alike looked at logistics as simply a

necessary evil—moving merchandise on trucks to stores. No glamour, no real

opportunity or need for dramatic improvement, and certainly not an area to

invest top management’s time on.

But at Wal-Mart, in the same way we approached other details, we never

accepted logistics as just another function to be performed in the business.

We didn’t accept that the way it was being done was necessarily the best

way, and we believed that we could dramatically improve the entire process.

Sam set a way of thinking in motion, and none of us quit challenging the

traditional methods. Obviously, since everyday low prices were a major part

of our customer satisfaction strategy, logistics presented a logical expense

category to attack. Beyond the money-saving aspect, though, and just as

importantly, we believed that this was another way to improve service to our

stores and another way to separate ourselves from our competition.

Working with Suppliers to Create a Seamless Flow

One important element that all companies in the retail industry—and

industry in general—had neglected was the potential of working more closely

with suppliers to develop a win-win-win situation for stores, the suppliers,

and the customers. By cautiously opening the door to that thinking, Wal-

Mart’s view of distribution and logistics expanded to include our suppliers

and has become what we call the “supply chain”—a term that is now

common in the industry.

Over the years, Wal-Mart has made many significant contributions to this

supply-chain concept. Our logistics team has done a masterful job of

improving our own internal processing and flowing of merchandise to our

stores, and we have accomplished similar dynamics in creating a seamless

flow between supplier and retailer through cooperation and coordination. We

actually went beyond what our suppliers were doing to ship merchandise to

us, examining and then making many changes to the entire relationship. In

both the internal and the external arenas, the changes Wal-Mart implemented

have been dramatic and the impact significant. All of their logistics

developments have their own unique stories, but as they happened on parallel

tracks, they are clearly intertwined.

Improving the In-House Distribution System

While many of the steps we took to improve our efficiencies within our in-

house distribution system were cutting-edge and revolutionary, the overall

process was gradual and evolutionary:

Phase 1:We built and operated our own warehouses to receive merchandise in

order to redistribute that merchandise to our stores.