SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Ownership
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's strategy of empowering associates, implementing their ideas, and providing profit-sharing and stock ownership opportunities fostered a strong sense of ownership and commitment.
KEYWORDS: employee ownership, profit-sharing, stock ownership, employee engagement, Wal-Mart culture
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

The Wal-Mart Ownership Strategy

How can you create a sense of ownership in the minds and hearts of your people? The answer is really quite simple: give them the chance to become owners. The way we have done that at Wal-Mart is fourfold:

Make all associates feel like partners by treating them like partners.

Implement their ideas that benefit the company.

Share a portion of the profits with everyone.

Give everyone easy and enhanced opportunities to purchase Wal-Mart stock and grow with the company.

Fortunately, she had a store manager who listened to her. He said, “That is a great idea, Lois. Why don’t you be the first greeter? Let’s give it a try, but let’s have everyone in the store spend a half hour up there greeting our customers.” As everybody came in the front door, an associate was there to tell each how happy we were to have them in the store. After one week, everyone in town was buzzing about this people-greeter in the front of the Wal-Mart store in Crowley, and many commented to the manager how wonderful it felt to be welcomed into the store.

A week later, the district manager walked in, and Lois greeted him at the front door. He didn’t understand what this was all about, so as soon as he saw the manager he said, “What in the world is she doing up there? You can’t afford that labor cost. It’s not in your budget.” The manager suggested that the district manager talk to the customers and ask their opinions. The response from the customers was overwhelmingly positive. The district manager, who was a little skeptical when he first walked into the store, was so impressed that he decided to put people-greeters in all ten of the stores in his district.

Several weeks later, the regional vice president stopped in one of the stores and received the same treatment. He raised the same question—is having a greeter worth the labor cost?—and was amazed by the resounding answer from customers as well. Ultimately, the regional vice president put a people greeter in each of the one hundred stores in his region.

When Sam heard about it, he decided to go to Crowley to see it for himself. He loved the idea, and we placed full-time greeters throughout the entire chain. Not only did this significantly add to the friendliness of our stores, but it also helped to reduce shrinkage rates in our stores.

One lady’s commitment to the Wal-Mart culture—and the listening ear management provided to her—led to the implementation of a successful new policy. This is a fantastic example of the impact one person can have on a company that cares about people and listens to their ideas. In fact, this idea has had an impact on an entire industry; many companies have now copied Lois’s greeter program.

Little-Known Facts About Wal-Mart

Recognitions

In 2003 and 2004,Wal-Mart was listed as #1 on Fortune magazine’s “Most Admired Company in America” listing.

In 2003 Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., received the prestigious “Corporate Patriotism Award” sponsored by the Employer Support of the Guard &

Reserve (ESGR).

On September 24, 2004, the National Committee for Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR), in conjunction with the Secretary of Defense, honored Wal-Mart as a 2004 Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom Award recipient.

In 2004,Wal-Mart was listed as one of the top 50 corporations (#5 on the list) by DiversityBusiness.com for providing multicultural business opportunities to diverse suppliers based on a poll of more than 200,000 diversity business owners across the U.S.

In 2004, Black Collegian magazine listed Wal-Mart as one of the top diversity employers.

Hispanic magazine ranked Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. among the top 100 companies providing most opportunities for Hispanics in 2004.

Vista magazine announced in 2004 that Wal-Mart was named among its Top Family Friendly Companies for Hispanics.

Latin Trade Reader named Wal-Mart among Latin America’s 25 Most- Respected Employers in 2004.

In 2004,Wal-Mart was named by Asian Enterprise magazine as one of the top ten companies for Asian Americans.

Wal-Mart received the 2002 Ron Brown Award, the highest Presidential Award recognizing outstanding achievement in employee relations and community initiatives.

In a poll sponsored by Career and Disabled magazine in 2004,Wal-Mart was recognized as one of the top companies in the nation for providing a positive working environment for people with disabilities.

ASDA was named the best place to work in the United Kingdom by

Fortune magazine in 2004.

Wal-Mart Canada was named the best retailer to work for in Canada by Report on Business Magazine in 2003 and 2004.

Employment/Job Creation

Wal-Mart employs more than 1.2 million associates in the United States and more than 385,000 associates internationally as of December 2004.

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. plans to create more than 100,000 new jobs in the United States during 2005.

In Mexico,Wal-Mart de Mexico plans to create more than 11,000 new jobs in 2005.

Each new supercenter in the U.S. creates approximately 400–500 jobs and 74 percent of Wal-Mart’s hourly store associates in the United States are full-time. That’s well above the 20–40 percent typically found in the retail industry.

Each new SAM’S CLUB creates approximately 160–175 jobs.

Typically, each new distribution center begins with 450–500 new jobs and many of them grow to over 900 jobs within a year. (Virtually all of these jobs are full-time.)

Wal-Mart promotes from within. Seventy-six percent of Wal-Mart’s store management team started in hourly positions with the company.

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. promoted more than 9,000 hourly associates to management during the past year and many of those jobs did not require a college degree.

Frequently,Wal-Mart receives thousands of applications for our 400–500 job openings at a new supercenter. In New York,Wal-Mart estimated more than 15,000 applicants applied for 400 jobs at a new store.

Wal-Mart is a leading employer of African Americans (over 206,000

African American associates) and Hispanics (over 133,600 Hispanic associates) in the U.S.