SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Uncategorized
SUMMARY: Could not generate summary
KEYWORDS: 
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

lifestyle of everyday people through low prices—and great customer service.

All workers ask those five questions, and the answers are vital to how they

function on the job. You and I have asked all five of those questions, too,

sometimes several at the same time. They form the basic framework for the

dignity of a worker, and it seems to me that if you can preanswer these

questions for your people on a continuing basis, you can then motivate them

to perform in an above-average way.

Little Things Mean a Lot

One of our goals in the early days at Wal-Mart was to unleash the potential

in all of our associates. We recognized that we didn’t have all of the good

ideas in the home office, so the challenge was to find a way to get associates

on the front lines involved in company improvements. It wasn’t one or two

big things but rather many, many little things all combined together to

demonstrate our intentions.

As previously mentioned, we called everyone “associates.” This idea was

born during Sam’s brief stint with J. C. Penney prior to his military service.

Back then, Penney was the only company known to call its people

“associates.” Many other companies have adopted that term, and now it

doesn’t sound quite as special. The key, of course, is not what you call your

people but how you treat them. And calling our associates by that name was a

constant reminder of how we were to treat them.

One day Sam came back from a trip to San Antonio, where he had seen the

ID badges on the employees of a supermarket chain called Randall’s that

showed only their first names. He thought it was a great idea. In the next few

months, we changed all our badges to show only first names, a much more

personal way to refer to all of our people, whether they were management or

hourly associates. That was when Sam asked all associates to begin calling

him by his first name. Some individuals, out of respect for him, simply could

not bring themselves to call him just “Sam.” So for some he was known as

“Mr. Sam.”

There is nothing magical about it—if your employees are enjoying their jobs, if they are

passionate about their work, it shows. If employees are having fun, excited about coming to

work, happy to be there, the company is going to have a tremendous competitive advantage.

—Matt Weinstein

A number of years ago, one member of our board of directors suggested

that since we placed such a high priority on the value of our people,we should

rename our personnel department our “people division.” It didn’t take very

long before that became a reality. I feel that the symbols used in a business

can be a factor for change if there is genuine meaning behind them. We never

again referred to our human resources department; it was always the People

Division. This was a small point, but relationships are made up of many small

acts, and the truth is that all of us really are in the people business.

Personal Assistance for Associates

We care about our associates and want them to know that. And we

recognize that our associates, like all people, have personal problems from

time to time. We saw how personal crises impacted their attitudes, their

relationships with colleagues and customers, and their performances on the

job. Sam believed that healthy families were a key to an associate’s

performance.

Sam Walton on Wal-Mart Associates

1. If you want a successful business, your people must feel that you are

working for them—not that they are working for you.

2. Share profits with all your associates, and treat them as partners. In turn,

they will treat you as a partner.

3. I’ve always enjoyed challenging our people. If you expect great things

from folks, they’ll expect it from themselves. Our people have never let us

down.

4. Isn’t it great to see people do more than they ever dreamed they could do .

. . or you thought they could do? That’s the fun of this business as far as

I’m concerned.

5. To push responsibility down in your organization, and to force good ideas

to bubble up within it, you must listen to what our associates are trying to

tell you.

6. What we need in our stores is ingenuity, morality, and honesty.

7. We get our best results from ordinary people doing an extraordinary job.

8. There is absolutely no limit to what plain, ordinary working people can

accomplish—if they’re given the opportunity, encouragement, and

incentive to do their best.

So we were open and optimistic when first introduced to a very unique

organization called Resources for Living, a team of psychologists at Abilene

Christian University in Abilene, Texas. Through Resources for Living, a

person could get free professional counseling by calling a toll-free number.

We decided to try the program out, and based on confidential feedback from

our associates, we learned it was appreciated and helpful. All aspects of the

program were totally confidential, and any associate or spouse of an associate

could bring up any personal problems he or she was having and get expert

counsel. Wal-Mart bore the entire cost of providing these counselors.

Management received a breakdown at the end of the month showing a

statistical total of the types of problems the counselors dealt with: family,

marriage, children, drugs, alcohol, and yes, even work. Marriages were

saved, addictions were broken, families were restored, and people were even

saved from suicide.

This team of counselors was also called out to stores, clubs, and

distribution centers to counsel personally with associates impacted by major

traumas, such as deaths in their operating units. The counselors held group

meetings to assist associates in dealing with grief and sorrow and were also

available to visit with any individuals who requested personal counseling.

The Door Is Always Open