SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses how leadership skills can be transferable and taught, and highlights the importance of vision in driving growth and change.
KEYWORDS: leadership skills, transferable skills, vision, growth, change
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

I believe that leadership skills are transferable and can be taught. Theresa and Kevin are great examples of this. There are literally thousands of stories that are similar to these, and they continue to happen every day in Wal-Mart.

A Special Note to Wal-Mart Associates from Don

“Today the dream is the same—only now it is our dream. Yours and mine. Because of the man who had a dream, we have changed the way we all think, act, and lead. Because of the man who had a dream, the face of retailing has been changed the world over. The way we buy and sell merchandise, the way we ship and store it has changed. Because of the man who had a dream, we have changed the way customers are greeted and satisfied. Because of the man who had a dream, we have changed how people are treated and how businesses are run. And because of the man who had a dream, we will continue to grow and to change what we do and the way we do it.”

Wal-Mart Growth by Decade

For Reflection and Action:

Have you ever had a dream, whether simple or grand, that you would love to accomplish in your life?

What are some “detours” you have experienced in your personal and work life? How have you responded to setbacks and challenges?

How comfortable are you with change? Are you flexible? Are you committed to growth?

Chapter 2

Vision—The Power of Seeing What Others Don’t See

Discovery consists of seeing what everybody has seen and thinking what nobody has thought.

—Albert von Szent-Gyorgy

Wal-Mart Way Principle #2

You must have a vision that allows you to see a bigger, better, stronger you in the future— while never taking your eyes off of who you are and what you are doing today.

Vision is the beginning point of any great endeavor. Christopher Columbus saw a great continent beyond the western horizon, while others saw the jagged edge of the world. Roger Bannister pictured himself crossing the finish line in a one-mile race in less than four minutes, while others saw only the limits of physical attainment. NASA scientists envisioned a human walking on the moon, while other brilliant minds had mathematically proven that such space travel was impossible.

Vision is a picture of how we would like tomorrow to look—or, put another way, how we would like ourselves to look tomorrow. Every good leadership book identifies vision as an essential characteristic of a leader, and every good leader has learned his or her responsibility to create and communicate a vision. But the danger is that talk of vision has become so prevalent—maybe even so commonplace—that many leaders take the process and discipline of vision-casting for granted.

How about you? How much time and energy have you given to creating and sharing a personal and corporate vision?

Sam Walton’s Simple Vision

Just as Sam began with a simple dream—to own his own store—his vision would likewise have not been considered very grand, sophisticated, or ambitious by most of his business contemporaries. Even with his vision becoming an enormous and ongoing reality, there are still experts who discount the power of Sam’s vision, chalking up the Wal-Mart story to luck rather than the tenacious pursuit of a vision. I would argue that few things are more powerful and dynamic than a vision.

When he looked into the future, Sam didn’t see Wal-Mart as the largestretailer in the world. He simply wanted to provide a better shopping experience for people living in small towns. He wanted to improve their standard of living by providing quality goods at low prices in a pleasant shopping environment. He wanted to accomplish this with a team of dedicated people . (Sam checked a person’s smile before he checked his educational background!) He strongly believed that if his team of associates felt as if they were part of a family, it would make his vision a joy and a success. And ultimately, as a smart businessman, Sam realized that if the stores were successful, he could continue to grow the company and touch more and more customers with his vision.

Warren Buffet estimates that Wal-Mart saves consumers $10 billion annually, primarily through its everyday low prices. In the March 2003 issue of Fortune magazine he said:

You can add it all up and they (Wal-Mart) have contributed to the financial well-being of the American public more than any institution I can think of.

Notice that Sam did not begin with a vision to create the largest retail chain in the United States—much less found the largest company in the world.

Millions of people have ambitious dreams and grand ideas for the future but fail to build the support and enthusiasm of others—investors, customers, their own employees—maybe even themselves. If you want people to follow you, be aware that they will always relate much better and on a much deeper level to something that is worthwhile in and of itself rather than financial objectives.

Sam never articulated a vision of being the biggest and richest. He did have a simple business plan that would make money and that he believed would likewise make the world a better place. And his team embraced the vision.

The customers liked what they saw too. They continued to shop at Wal- Mart, making the vision a reality—and helping it to grow beyond anything Sam ever dreamed of. Sam never wavered in his vision to provide service to small-town America, but as success bred success, he began to test his stores in midsized markets and then in the major metropolitan centers of America.

The vision grew, but the fundamental premise never changed: improve the standard of living for everyday people by providing quality goods at low prices.

The Vision Grows—Sam’s Club Is Born