SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Goal Setting and Leadership
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of setting achievable goals, avoiding unrealistic targets, and maintaining humility and openness to feedback as a leader.
KEYWORDS: goal setting, leadership, complacency, hubris
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

It’s good to set goals above and beyond the status quo. And it’s good to dream and believe the impossible is possible. But is there a danger in setting goals that are totally unrealistic and unattainable? Absolutely! When leadership arbitrarily sets goals and hands them off to the team with instructions to “just do it,” instead of inspiring people, it has the exact opposite effect: it deflates and demotivates the very people who are responsible for reaching the goals. We all know that without enthusiasm and personal ownership, it is next to impossible to accomplish something significant.

It is vital for a leader to carefully dialogue with people to set goals that stretch them and grow the organization. He or she can push—but the goals must also be achievable and supported with adequate resources. The worst thing a leader can do if people react negatively to an unrealistic goal is ignore their concerns and simply tell them to “do whatever it takes.”What too often happens is that the people take the leader at face value and begin cutting corners, which may in turn lead to stretching or reshaping the truth, to the point that good people make bad and possibly illegal or unethical choices.

Any growth achieved in this manner will be short-lived. The costs—loss of trust and damage to company culture—will be much greater.

A Passion for Excellence Means Avoiding the Quicksand of Complacency

Every person I have ever met has wanted to be successful in life. Many of them have managed to reach their goals and have become extremely successful. They have had high expectations for themselves and for their organizations and have accomplished great things. But I have seen a significant number of individuals and companies, which have been very successful for a time, lose it for no apparent reason—at least for no obvious reason. They had continued to have good workers and products and favorable

competitive positioning.

He who is good at making excuses is seldom good for anything else.

—Benjamin Franklin

While it would be easy to overgeneralize and simplify, I have observed that success itself can be a major problem. It can be dangerous to be highly successful. You can begin to think that you have arrived and that you are on top of the mountain. This is when egos inflate in unhealthy ways. Then leaders aren’t concerned about the company but begin to say with words and actions, “Look at what I have done!” This can happen in companies and just as easily in individuals.

When our egos get out of control, we lose our humility and become arrogant. We begin to believe that we are always right. Arrogance leads to bad decisions and treating others as second-class citizens. When everyone is patting you on the back and praising your accomplishments, watch out; that’s when you are vulnerable.

The ancient Greeks had a word for this: hubris. Hubris is an exaggerated pride or self-confidence; an overbearing presumption; arrogance.

Unfortunately, the business world is full of stories of great individuals and companies that have fallen due to their own egos. Out-of-control executive perks and indulgences, shady deals meant to appease stockholders, associates who are afraid to question or speak up to leadership: these are just a few of the symptoms of hubris in the business world.

Complacency is the mortal enemy of growth and continued success. It is easy to take success for granted and presume that because we have been successful in the past, success will continue to be our friend in the future.

Nothing could be further from the truth. The reality is that you have to work harder the more successful you become—your competitors have learned from your success and are all out to beat you. At Wal-Mart, we always cautioned our associates not to believe our press clippings. There is always room for improvement. You are never as good as you ultimately can be. As Abraham Lincoln expressed, “I do the very best I know how—the very best I can; and I mean to keep on doing so until the end.”

If you love your work, you will be out there every day trying to do it the best you can and soon everyone around you will catch that passion from you—like a fever.

—Sam Walton

One of the reasons we accomplished so much at Wal-Mart was that we never lost sight of being the best that we could be. We corrected errors, operated with a sense of faith and optimism, set high expectations of ourselves, and guarded against complacency. We celebrated our success but never became enthralled with our own press.

How about you? What great things are ahead for you and your organization when you embrace a passion for excellence?

For reflection and action:

Does your company have a passion for excellence? How would you define excellence in your organization?

What are some obvious errors that need correcting in your company?

Have you ever personally sensed the need to set your sights higher than the level at which you have been performing? What can you do to make that happen?

What enemies of excellence exist in your life and company right now?

How committed are you to not only doing things right—but the best way they can be done?

Chapter 7

The Execution Imperative

The secret of success is to do common things uncommonly well.

—John D. Rockefeller Sr.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #7

Your success is in direct proportion to your ability to plan, monitor, and ultimately execute all phases of your business.