SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Business Optimization
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart leadership challenged a team to increase recoveries from $3.5 million to $10 million, leading to a successful plan that involved changes and resources.
KEYWORDS: business optimization, performance improvement, cost reduction, team collaboration
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

company’s bottom line—ultimately saving our customers money—and was a

big increase over the previous year.

The departmental team came in and presented a budget to me for the next

year of $3.5 million. They were rightfully proud because percentage-wise, it

was a significant increase. I complimented them on their plan to significantly

increase recoveries, then asked what it would take to get to $10 million. Their

response was, “Ten million? We can’t do $10 million. That’s not realistic,

Don.”

I asked them why it wasn’t realistic. And they said, “We would have to

change everything we do.”

I said, “Ah-ha, that’s it. So the way you can get the $10 million is by

changing what you do? Take a couple of weeks and go back to the drawing

board. Come back and tell me what you need in order to get to $10 million in

recoveries this year.”

The team came back a couple weeks later with their new plan in hand. To

achieve 400 percent growth, the plan included adding nineteen people to the

home office department, which, of course, was going to add expense before

recovering even a single dollar. They went on to say that the plan would also

require additional computer programming support in order to get the reports

they needed.

I agreed,“Then that’s what we’ll do. Go ahead and start hiring the nineteen

people. I’ll talk to the people in information systems, and we’ll get the tech

support you need to write the programs. If we do that, can I expect you to get

the $10 million?”

“Absolutely” was their confident answer.

We added approximately $500,000 dollars of new costs, and in the next

twelve months the team reached the $10 million in recoveries. That was a

terrific return on our investment. And it was a wonderful example of what

happens when the passion for excellence grows throughout a company. They

did it; I didn’t. It took changing just about everything they did, which wasn’t

my idea—it was theirs. Yes, leadership challenged them to get their number,

but they didn’t grumble; they simply accepted the challenge and came back

with a solid plan. Yes, they saw that I had a lot of confidence in them and

their plan—and I gave them the resources they needed and had clearly

defined—but again, they were so excited about blasting through previous

achievements that they made it happen.

They did all sorts of fun things to accomplish their goal: contests, colorful

wall charts, and their own humorous slogans. It was a joy to watch. The

whole department was involved,which created a new measure of enthusiasm

and kept the challenging process of working on the recovery of stolen

property from being a downer.

At the end of the year we threw a big party for everyone in the department

to celebrate their $10 million accomplishment. The next year, they came back

with a plan to recover $17 million. Again, they told me exactly what they

needed in the way of resources in order to make it happen. They got the $17

million! Not only were they able to do something great for the company, but

they also learned—and taught others—the amazing things that can happen

with a passion for excellence.

The Loss Prevention team members achieved even more then they ever

imagined. They didn’t do it—and couldn’t have done it—by cutting corners.

They accomplished something great by doing their business in a better way

and by making an investment in the business.

Business is tough. We are all looking for ways to cut costs. But a passion

for excellence is about making wise investments in people and in their ideas.

Passion for Excellence Means Counting the Costs

It’s good to set goals above and beyond the status quo. And it’s good to

dream and believe the impossible is possible. But is there a danger in setting

goals that are totally unrealistic and unattainable? Absolutely! When

leadership arbitrarily sets goals and hands them off to the team with

instructions to “just do it,” instead of inspiring people, it has the exact

opposite effect: it deflates and demotivates the very people who are

responsible for reaching the goals. We all know that without enthusiasm and

personal ownership, it is next to impossible to accomplish something

significant.

It is vital for a leader to carefully dialogue with people to set goals that

stretch them and grow the organization. He or she can push—but the goals

must also be achievable and supported with adequate resources. The worst

thing a leader can do if people react negatively to an unrealistic goal is ignore

their concerns and simply tell them to “do whatever it takes.”What too often

happens is that the people take the leader at face value and begin cutting

corners, which may in turn lead to stretching or reshaping the truth, to the

point that good people make bad and possibly illegal or unethical choices.

Any growth achieved in this manner will be short-lived. The costs—loss of

trust and damage to company culture—will be much greater.

A Passion for Excellence Means Avoiding the Quicksand of

Complacency

Every person I have ever met has wanted to be successful in life. Many of

them have managed to reach their goals and have become extremely

successful. They have had high expectations for themselves and for their

organizations and have accomplished great things. But I have seen a

significant number of individuals and companies, which have been very

successful for a time, lose it for no apparent reason—at least for no obvious

reason. They had continued to have good workers and products and favorable

competitive positioning.

He who is good at making excuses is seldom good for anything else.

—Benjamin Franklin

While it would be easy to overgeneralize and simplify, I have observed

that success itself can be a major problem. It can be dangerous to be highly

successful. You can begin to think that you have arrived and that you are on