SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Corporate Social Responsibility
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's focus on charitable giving, education, and environmental protection as part of its community-oriented business approach.
KEYWORDS: Charitable giving, Education, Environmental protection
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

Mart than it is today. Indeed, charitable giving has become the centerpiece of

the company’s legendary grand opening ceremony at every new store and

club. Thousands of dollars are donated locally as part of every grand opening

ceremony. Good marketing? Sure. But we truly believe it is critical for all of

our new stores and clubs to get off on the right foot as a community-minded

business.

He that will not permit his wealth to do any good for others . . . cuts himself off from the

truest pleasure here and the highest happiness later.

—Charles Caleb Colton

A Focus on Education

One of the earliest decisions the Wal-Mart Foundation made was to

annually provide a scholarship to a deserving high-school senior in each

market where we had a store or club. Since 1979, the foundation has invested

over $80 million in young men and women through this program. In 1995,

Wal-Mart initiated a Teacher of the Year program to recognize outstanding

teachers in the local school systems and make donations to their schools in

their names. To date,Wal-Mart has honored more than twenty-two thousand

individuals as Wal-Mart Teachers of the Year and donated more than $14

million to their respective schools.

Wal-Mart has also donated more than $16 million to the cause of literacy.

Words Are Your Wheels is a program that helps nonprofit and educational

groups in thousands of communities across the country that are trying to

teach people young and old how to read. Wal-Mart has established a toll-free

referral help line to assist individuals in locating names and telephone

numbers of literacy agencies and programs. To date, nearly sixteen thou sand

people have received assistance through the help line.

Close Up is a charitable organization that targets underprivileged students

for internships in the federal government in Washington, D.C. Mark Ramsey,

an educator at the Westminster High School in Westminster, Colorado, wrote

to us after receiving financial assistance from Wal-Mart for his students:

Because of Wal-Mart’s assistance, my students have been afforded an opportunity to involve

themselves in learning more about our nation’s history. They are empowered to become civic

minded and involved. Without Wal-Mart’s generous grants for low-income students, Close

Up would be a program only for the privileged.

The Environment

Wal-Mart is committed to environmental protection and preservation of

our natural resources. For years, Wal-Mart has participated in environmental

projects through the Wal-Mart Foundation and the many community-oriented

environmental projects that our associates support. In fact, in the last five

years Wal-Mart has contributed over $10 million to local environmental

projects through the store grant and foundation programs.

Wal-Mart has an active environmental program at the corporate level. The

goals of this environmental emphasis are:

• to ensure that our associates understand the importance that Wal-Mart

places on protection of the environment as well as the conservation of

natural resources;

• to be in compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations;

• to support local community efforts in the environmental area;

• to find new products and technologies that will minimize the environmental

impact of our operations; and

• to work with our suppliers to meet the needs of the customer with products

that are environmentally safe and support sustainability.

Wal-Mart is constantly exploring new technology and products when we

construct, operate, maintain, and service our facilities. Some of these ideas

have significant environmental impact and go well beyond compliance to

environmental laws. The concept of small, experimental stores is now in its

second phase with innovative ideas being built into stores and evaluated to

determine if they should be included in all new stores.

Wal-Mart has an extensive recycling program within each location. In

fiscal 2004,Wal-Mart recycled the following:

Corrugated Cardboard 4,413,688,000 pounds

Deposit Bottles/Cans 203,240,000 containers

Shrink-wrap 15,783,456 pounds

Tires 18,367,473 tires

Used Motor Oil 22,102,620 gallons

Used Oil Filters 16,380,011 pounds

Lead Acid Batteries 18,000,000 batteries

Disposable Cameras 36,394,436 cameras

Ink Cartridges 60,000 cartridges

Watch Batteries 6,950 pounds

Rechargeable Batteries 7,607 pounds

Silver (from photo waste) 54,147 pounds

Missing Children’s Network

Not all that Wal-Mart gives back to communities is in the form of funding.

Being a good citizen is much more than dollars and cents. In June 1996, Wal-

Mart began a partnership with the National Center for Missing & Exploited

Children (NCMEC) and created the Missing Children’s Network. Bulletin

boards displaying regional photos of missing children are in all Wal-Mart

facilities, including more than thirty-five hundred stores, clubs, and

distribution centers.

• Since the inception of the Missing Children’s Network program, more than

5,864 children have been featured with more than 4,448 children found.

• So far, well over 100 of the recoveries are a direct result of a Wal-Mart

customer seeing the picture of a missing child in a Wal-Mart store or

Sam’s Club and calling the hotline (1-800-THE-LOST) with information

leading to the recovery.

• In September 1999,Wal-Mart and the NCMEC expanded the picture

program to include community posters. The posters display regional

photos and are distributed to local schools, libraries, and hospitals in the

communities we serve.

• Local television stations air public-service announcements encouraging

viewers to stop and look at the photos displayed on Wal-Mart’s Missing

Children Network boards.

RoadWatch

The network has been expanded to include the Wal-Mart truck drivers. The

new alert is called RoadWatch—Missing Child Alert. The alert is sent

directly to the cabs of our tractor-trailer units and makes our drivers aware of

abducted children within their driving areas. As they go about their normal

duties, they will also be watching the road for vehicles and children involved

in child abduction cases.

Wal-Mart is the first company to implement this type of program and plans

to share the plan and the technology with all other interested companies. Our

drivers are proud to add this special RoadWatch duty to their ongoing

community service actions while on our nation’s roads and highways.

Code Adam Program

Another system to help children who have been abducted, Code Adam