SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Customer Service and Quality Improvement
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of providing excellent customer service and the need to continuously improve operations to meet customer needs.
KEYWORDS: customer service, quality improvement, continuous improvement, Walmart, leadership
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

For reflection and action:

Have you ever experienced great service at a restaurant or store or other place of business? How did it make you feel as a person?

Do you ever give serious thought to the quality of service you are providing in your business and community? Have you found effective ways to communicate that these people are important to you?

What barriers, if any, stand between you and satisfying your customers?

Are you willing to tackle those barriers in order to serve your customers well?

How important would your business associates say customer satisfaction is to you? How about your customers?

Chapter 6

A Passion for Excellence

Leadership is the art of accomplishing more than the science of management says is possible.

—Former Secretary of State Colin Powell

Wal-Mart Way Principle #6

Achieving excellence becomes a reality when you set high expectations, humbly face and correct your mistakes, stay optimistic, and avoid the quicksand of complacency.

I joined Wal-Mart Stores in April 1980. Our sales were strong going into the holidays that year, and we had a tremendous selling season between Thanksgiving and Christmas. When I came into the Friday morning meeting the week after Christmas and confirmed that sales had risen nearly 40 percent from the same period in the previous year, I was amazed and extremely excited. I had never seen such a large increase with an established company, especially during what was already the highest sales volume period of the year.

If this had happened anywhere else I had ever worked, it would have been cause for a major celebration. Little did I know that I was about to enter Sam’s Wal-Mart Way classroom once again.

Excellence Means “Correction of Errors”

Sam began the meeting by thanking everyone for a great job. We discussed a few of the very positive things that we had done, but after only five minutes of modest self-congratulations, we began discussing what we could have

done better. We talked about everything we had “left on the table”—that’s when you lose sales due to a lack of merchandise. Sam asked why we had run out of Christmas wrapping paper a week-and-a-half early in some stores. We also discussed overstocking—why we ended up with way too much merchandise in other categories. We spent a full two hours talking about how we could improve our decision making and operations, and we began making specific and detailed plans for the next Christmas season right then.

Leadership assigned people to specific tasks and asked them to report back on how they were going to solve some of these problems.

It is the characteristic excellence of the strong man that he can bring momentous issues to the fore and make a decision about them. The weak are always forced to decide between alternatives they have not chosen themselves.

—Dietrich Bonhoeffer

This was a profound learning experience for me and introduced me to Sam’s simple concept of “correction of errors.” This is how we approached every major merchandise season, every company initiative, every major event we were involved in: review everything while it is still fresh in your minds, discover errors, and don’t make the same mistake twice. Sam rigorously applied this process to every part of the company and helped us to keep improving everything that we did.

Does this mean we didn’t reward and celebrate success? Absolutely not. But Sam didn’t see the value of sitting around and talking about how good we were, when there were things we could do better. This was one of my most important lessons on what passion for excellence really looked like.

Passion for Success Means High Expectations

By setting high expectations, we were always raising our performance standards to a new level. That’s how we were able to keep improving our numbers from year to year. But the real focus was always on being the best we possibly could be; the numbers would take care of themselves.

One of the keys to setting your expectations high is a spirit of optimism.

We had a very optimistic view of America’s future, of the business environment, and of ourselves! We believed that there was always more

potential than what we and others could see at the moment. That is why we addressed problems and challenges with poise and opportunism. Sam had a positive point of view. Sam was a living example to us of what we could accomplish if we set our minds to it.

Passion for Excellence Means Believing the Impossible Is Possible

High expectations are a powerful driving force, helping you become better than you already are. Sometimes you need to go one step further and step out on faith, even when you don’t have history or research to predict success. As the biblical writer said: “Now faith is being sure of what we hope for and certain of what we do not see” (Heb. 11:1). Yes, past performance is the greatest predictor of future performance—but if we lived by that credo alone, no one would do anything bold and new. Sometimes we need good, old- fashioned faith!

Wal-Mart grew 2,000 percent in the seventies and passed the $2 billion mark in 1982. Many retail analysts predicted this as our peak—the more established stores would leave us behind. But that was really only the beginning of the coming Wal-Mart revolution. People continue to be amazed by what we have accomplished in Wal-Mart since that time. And honestly, sometimes in reflecting back on our next period of unbelievable growth, I shake my head and pinch myself to make sure I didn’t dream it.

When I joined the company in the first quarter of 1980,Wal-Mart had just completed a year with sales of $1.25 billion, Wal-Mart’s first billion-dollar year.

When Sam passed away twelve short years later, in April 1992, our sales had reached $44 billion, making us the largest retailer in the world.

By the end of fiscal year 2004, sales topped $256 billion—an increase of