SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Product Development and Marketing
SUMMARY: The text describes the success story of a small family business that developed household cleaning products and partnered with Walmart to expand its reach.
KEYWORDS: household products, product development, partnership, marketing, Walmart
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

household cleaning products with great brand recognition, including

OxyClean,KaBoom, and others? Max Appel and his wife had a simple

formula that included hard work and a dogged determination to test every

sales channel.

• The Appels began selling a variety of their homegrown products at home

shows and state fairs in and around Colorado in 1985.

• Through countless hours of trial and elimination, they created OrangeGlo,

their first signature product. It was a squirt-and-wipe product made from

orange oil, which dissolved grease, handprints, and grime from hard

surfaces. After several improvements to the formula, including a better-

smelling scent—derived by switching to Valencia orange oil—the product

was ready for bigger markets. Max was also able to move out of his garage

and into a small warehouse, where he mixed and manufactured the

product.

• Max began to sell at shows away from Colorado and recruited show people

to become OG distributors. At one point Max was actively marketing and

selling at over one hundred consumer shows. He needed help.

• His children left successful jobs at Quaker Oats, Accenture, Young and

Rubicam, and a cooking career to join their parents in building a company.

Through their experience and skills, they helped to refine every aspect of

the business.

• They lined up a producer and created an infomercial to demonstrate

OrangeGlo and OrangeClean. The infomercial was a resounding success

and helped them make the move into grocery stores such as Food Lion,

Kroger, and other retail settings.

• Then came the first appointment with Wal-Mart and Sam’s. Max and his

son were able to convince the buyer to give the relatively unknown

products a trial in some of Wal-Mart’s stores, including those in Colorado

where there was some previous exposure. At that time Appels’ sales had

reached $20 million.

• The test was a huge success at Sam’s, so Wal-Mart agreed to put the

Appels’ products in eighteen hundred stores and eventually into the entire

chain.

• Wal-Mart placed Appels’ products in other countries, and the small family

business was able to expand into and open corporate offices in England,

Mexico, France, Germany, China, Japan, and Korea.

But what was the determining factor in the Appels’ remarkable success?

According to Max, it was based on a supplier relationship:

Our sales and success were due, in large part, to Wal-Mart’s handling and promoting our

products but even more so to their encouragement and feedback. They not only sold our

products, but gave us suggestions for new products and for improving our present products.

We feel blessed to be part of the Wal-Mart supply team. We feel we are partners in making

helpful and unique products available to people everywhere.

For reflection and action:

1. Are there relationships in your business that could offer substantial

improvements in performance if you established greater levels of

communication?

2. Do you find a lack of trust between your company and business partners to

be a deterrent to your success?

3. Which people in your sphere of business interactions have the most impact

on your business? What potential do you see in this area?

Chapter 11

Never Stop Growing

I will go anywhere, as long as it’s forward.

—David Livingstone

Wal-Mart Way Principle #11

The ongoing success of your organization is in direct proportion to your ongoing commitment to grow.

W

hat have you done for me lately? That particular phrase—common in

sports and business contexts—has a strong negative connotation for most of

us. It bespeaks an adversarial spirit and a lack of gratitude and appreciation

for a career of significant contributions. But when we ask the question of

ourselves—what have I been doing lately?—it suddenly becomes a powerful

and helpful self-assessment tool to indicate the current health of an individual

or company.

Growth and organizational health are inextricably linked. The Wal-Mart

growth strategy has been the engine that drives the ever-expanding sales of

Wal-Mart. We pushed sales relentlessly, believing that if you don’t add to the

top line (sales revenue), you will not be able to consistently add to the bottom

line (profits). And if you don’t add to the bottom line, you will not be able to

reinvest in the business, which will damage every aspect of your business

plan and limit your future growth.

If you’ve ever watched a football game on TV, you will have undoubtedly

heard the phrase “they lost their momentum.” It means that everything a team

is trying to do is a struggle, while everything the other team is doing seems to

flow so easily. During the early days of Wal-Mart’s movement toward

becoming the number-one retailer in the world, we caught and passed

competitors who were one thousand times our size, because they didn’t have

an adequate growth strategy—they had lost their momentum and were

heading in the wrong direction!

Sam believed in momentum. We continually plowed the lion’s share of our

profits straight back into the business.

The Wal-Mart growth strategy had six basic components:

1. Increase same-store and same-club sales each year.

2. Add new stores and clubs.

3. Relocate, expand, and remodel stores and clubs.

4. Acquire U.S. competitors.

5. Acquire international chains.

6. Develop new retail concepts.

Same-Store Sales

Sales increases in stores that have been open at least one year are the most

important component in any company’s growth plan. Why? Because if you

aren’t growing in existing stores, it may mean that there’s a problem with

your “product.” Increase in same-store sales is the strongest indicator of the

overall health of a retail organization. It means your merchandise and

marketing strategies are still relevant. It signals that you are continuing to

satisfy your customers, adding new customers, and improving your

productivity at the store level. Granted, this is much simpler in growing

markets, and much harder in stagnant markets. But the bottom line is, if you

are unable to get increases in your existing base of stores every year, it will