SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Merchandising Strategy
SUMMARY: Walmart focused on offering a wide assortment of basic, quality merchandise at low prices, while Sam's Club targeted small business owners with a more limited assortment of bulk items.
KEYWORDS: merchandising strategy, assortment, pricing, Walmart, Sam's Club
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

week.

We recognized that we couldn’t be everything to everybody, so we made

choices to focus primarily on basics. That meant that we would stay away

from the higher-priced lines, such as dress clothes and other high-end

merchandise lines. In the apparel area, for example, we chose to sell basic

sportswear and casual office wear. At the same time, it was extremely

important for us to always offer quality to our customers, and therefore we

emphasized buying name-brand merchandise wherever possible, and we

never sold seconds.

Another dimension to our merchandising strategy is that we always offered

as wide an assortment of merchandise as possible. Today, in an average Wal-

Mart store we have more than eighty thousand individual items, and more

than one hundred thousand items in a Supercenter, approximately 30 percent

more than our competitors. Because of the diversity of our markets, our

stores actually choose from more than four hundred thousand items. Our

customers told us that’s what they wanted. Every market research report I

have ever seen shows that customers, in general, want a large assortment.

Whoever renders service to many puts himself in line for greatness—great wealth, great return, great

satisfaction, great reputation, and great joy.

—Jim Rohn

Recognizing that many of our customers are average American families

working hard to make ends meet,we believe that low prices are essential, and

we never stop working to keep our prices low. Coupling our buying strategy

with our pricing strategy, as a result of our overall merchandising strategy we

have been able to achieve a dominant market position in categories as diverse

as dog food, fabric and crafts, toys, men’s and boys’ underwear and socks,

and music and videos.

Sam’s Clubs—A Different Customer and Approach

The merchandising strategy in Sam’s Clubs is completely different from

that in Wal-Mart stores. Since the primary customer has joined the store,

making him or her a “member,” and he is usually a small-business owner, the

breadth of assortment is not as important as in family-driven stores. Each

club carries between thirty-five hundred and four thousand individual items.

What is important is that we offer the most common items our members need

in their businesses and carry them in mass quantities and in larger servings

sizes. By limiting the assortment and handling the merchandise by full pallet

loads, we keep costs at a minimum, thereby offering prices to the members at

the lowest level possible.

As a special courtesy to business owners and in respect for their time,

Sam’s also sets certain hours in the morning when only business owners can

shop. Since they purchase large quantities of items and usually load them on

flatbed hand trucks, it makes it easier for them to get what they need without

other shoppers and families crowding the aisles.

Sam’s merchandise assortment is also geared to higher-priced items for

individual members that are usually sold in department stores. We sell these

items at unbelievably low prices, offering a huge savings over what a

member would pay anywhere else. This practice attracts many members who

regularly do much of their shopping in department stores and specialty shops.

Another important concept of the Sam’s Club strategy is to always have

new merchandise flowing in for a limited period of time and then replacing it

with other new items. This creates a sense of a “treasure hunt” every time a

member shops in the club because there is always something new. The

expect-the-unexpected feel is a great appeal to the individual members as

well as the business owners for their personal needs. Periodically, for

example, a “road show” of items such as fine furniture, pool tables, or luxury

gifts will be brought into a club for several weeks and then moved to another

club. The novelty also adds to the excitement of shopping in a Sam’s Club.

As you can see, the merchandising strategies of Wal-Mart’s different

divisions are not the same, but the thinking processes behind the strategies

are identical. The common threads are:

• Focusing on the customers by providing the merchandise they are asking

for, not what you may want to sell them.

• Driving down the costs of operations.

• Keeping prices as low as possible.

• Creating a fun and friendly shopping environment.

The Power of Accountability

Over the years, we learned that every time we drifted from these basic

fundamentals of merchandising, our business suffered, and we had to get

back to square one. Sometimes it’s difficult to reverse direction and correct

yourself, and that’s where some once-great companies have floundered to the

point of extinction. They were either unwilling or unable to admit that they

had slipped in their relevance to the market.

Anytime our sales fell below certain defined expectations, we had to

remind ourselves that it wasn’t the customers or our competition that was to

blame: it was us. As Julius Caesar said to Brutus in Shakespeare’s play: “The

fault, dear Brutus, is not in the stars, but in ourselves.”

Addition of Private-Label Merchandise

Wal-Mart has always been, and most likely will remain, a retailer that

supports national and international brand merchandise. In the minds of many

consumers, brands are synonymous with quality. Therefore, our strategy was

to offer primarily name brands at everyday low discount prices, thereby

providing our customers with genuine value and with a direct comparison to

our competitors. We were always proud of our prices and never shied away

from comparisons.

In the early years, we offered a limited number of private-label items, but

they represented only a small portion of our sales. The most familiar private-

label item we carried was dog food named Ol’ Roy after Sam Walton’s

favorite hunting dog.

In the late 1980s, however, the prices of numerous national brand items

were continuing to increase beyond levels that we believed to be reasonable.

Even at our comparatively lower prices, we didn’t believe we were providing

adequate value for our customers. Wal-Mart management determined that our