SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Leadership and Company Culture
SUMMARY: The text discusses Walmart's use of annual themes and the importance of communicating and inspiring employees to achieve the seemingly impossible.
KEYWORDS: company culture, employee engagement, leadership communication, goal-setting, innovation
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

mustard seed of faith—and can convince his people that the seemingly

impossible is indeed possible.

Passion for Excellence Means Communicating, Communicating,

Communicating . . .

Every year we had a different annual theme, which we introduced at the

year-beginning meeting held in late January. But our theme didn’t fade away

when the banner came down; we repeated it over and over again throughout

the year. These themes were more than neat little slogans—they were really a

focus point to drive home an idea, a rallying point to engage everyone’s

thoughts. It was an emotional appeal to help us realize we could achieve even

higher goals than we had in the past. It was even a way to share our beliefs

with everyone in the company—to communicate our culture—and bring

everyone in alignment with a high goal. Several examples of the themes for

past years are:

We’ve Only Just Begun!

You Can Do It!

Yes We Can!

Let’s Make It Happen!

It’s My Wal-Mart!

In 2001, our theme was “Imagine the Possible.” Some of us were like little

kids getting in trouble for having too-active imaginations. (Usually there was

some mischief involved.) All of us have been told in one form or another to

get our heads out of the clouds and our feet on the ground. I think to succeed

in business and life that there are times when we need do the exact opposite:

get our heads back in the clouds and our feet off the ground. In other words,

stretch your mind and just imagine, envision, dream of how much better you

and your organization can be than you are right now. When was the last time

you sent your mind wandering beyond today to imagine a brighter tomorrow?

Let your mind go, dream a little, and you might just discover that anything is

possible.

Too many leaders are afraid of letting their minds wander too far; they put

fences around their dreams. If you want to accomplish great things, you must

dare to venture beyond today’s realities. The thinking behind “Imagine the

Possible” was that we needed to push even further, beyond the self-imposed

limits of our current thought processes and previous experiences. My first

thought was Imagine the possible by striving for the impossible, because

that’s what we had actually done in the past; why couldn’t we do it in the

future?

In preparation for my talk to all our store managers about the new theme, I

looked the word impossible up in dictionary and found the following

definition: “Felt to be incapable of being done, attained, or fulfilled.”

The key phrase in this definition that jumped off the page to me was “felt

to be.” There have been many events in history that people perceived to be

impossible but then accomplished. Consider:

The Pyramids of Egypt

We still don’t know how they were built. How did they get those big rocks

on the top levels? Modern engineers still marvel. This was an unbelievable

accomplishment for the ancient Egyptian civilization.

Beethoven’s Fifth

In 1804, Beethoven completed his Fifth Symphony in spite of the fact that

he was completely deaf. He went on to write several other symphonies after

losing his hearing. How is it possible to write music when you are deaf? You

can’t do that—wouldn’t you have to know how it sounds? He accomplished

what seemed to be impossible.

Breaking the Four-Minute Mile

Track athletes viewed running a mile in under four minutes as impossible.

Some doctors believed that it was past the threshold of human potential and

would lead to death. Then one day, a young medical student, Roger Bannister

of England, ran a mile in 3:59:4. In the next several years, runners achieved

the four-minute mile over three hundred times. Once Bannister broke through

the barrier, people believed it could be done—and did it.

The Heart Transplant

When I was growing up, it seemed like science fiction to think that you

could take a heart out of one person and transplant it into the body of another.

Then,Dr. Christiaan Barnard of South Africa did it. Today, organs are being

transplanted hundreds and thousands of times a day all across the world.

Land a Man on the Moon

When I was a child, I read the popular comic strip Buck Rogers. Rogers

wore a funny-looking outfit and traveled around in space in a shiny rocket. I

liked reading Buck Rogers because it was like magic—the world of make-

believe for young people. But later, the U.S. actually did it: we landed men

on the moon and we got them back to Earth. In the 1950s two Harvard

scientists conclusively proved that space travel was impossible (because of

the weight of the fuel). Today we take space travel for granted.

These achievements were all perceived to be impossible, but they were

accomplished. If these things were possible, what else is possible? Are there

things in your organization that you or your people may think are impossible

that in actuality could be done? No one believed that it was possible to build

the largest corporation in the world in Bentonville, Arkansas, but we did it. If

you can recognize that what others feel is impossible is actually possible, you

can open up the boundaries of your mind. Who knows what you may be able

to do?

I know the price of success: dedication, hard work, and an unremitting devotion to the things you want

to see happen.

—Frank Lloyd Wright

A Passion for Excellence in Wabash, Indiana: A Snapshot

On Monday, October 25, 1999, a fire started in the furniture department on

the lamp counter in our Wabash, Indiana, store. The store manager was

alerted, and he attempted to extinguish the fire but was unsuccessful. He

discovered later that lamp oil on the counter fueled the fire. The fire

department arrived and was able to put out the fire fairly quickly.

Unfortunately, however, there was extensive smoke damage throughout the