SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Operational Excellence
SUMMARY: The text describes Wal-Mart's approach to continuous improvement, where errors are identified and corrected to drive ongoing excellence.
KEYWORDS: continuous improvement, error correction, high expectations, operational excellence, Wal-Mart
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

excited. I had never seen such a large increase with an established company,

especially during what was already the highest sales volume period of the

year.

If this had happened anywhere else I had ever worked, it would have been

cause for a major celebration. Little did I know that I was about to enter

Sam’s Wal-Mart Way classroom once again.

Excellence Means “Correction of Errors”

Sam began the meeting by thanking everyone for a great job. We discussed

a few of the very positive things that we had done, but after only five minutes

of modest self-congratulations, we began discussing what we could have

done better. We talked about everything we had “left on the table”—that’s

when you lose sales due to a lack of merchandise. Sam asked why we had run

out of Christmas wrapping paper a week-and-a-half early in some stores. We

also discussed overstocking—why we ended up with way too much

merchandise in other categories. We spent a full two hours talking about how

we could improve our decision making and operations, and we began making

specific and detailed plans for the next Christmas season right then.

Leadership assigned people to specific tasks and asked them to report back

on how they were going to solve some of these problems.

It is the characteristic excellence of the strong man that he can bring momentous issues to the fore and

make a decision about them. The weak are always forced to decide between alternatives they have not

chosen themselves.

—Dietrich Bonhoeffer

This was a profound learning experience for me and introduced me to

Sam’s simple concept of “correction of errors.” This is how we approached

every major merchandise season, every company initiative, every major event

we were involved in: review everything while it is still fresh in your minds,

discover errors, and don’t make the same mistake twice. Sam rigorously

applied this process to every part of the company and helped us to keep

improving everything that we did.

Does this mean we didn’t reward and celebrate success? Absolutely not.

But Sam didn’t see the value of sitting around and talking about how good

we were, when there were things we could do better. This was one of my

most important lessons on what passion for excellence really looked like.

Passion for Success Means High Expectations

By setting high expectations, we were always raising our performance

standards to a new level. That’s how we were able to keep improving our

numbers from year to year. But the real focus was always on being the best

we possibly could be; the numbers would take care of themselves.

One of the keys to setting your expectations high is a spirit of optimism.

We had a very optimistic view of America’s future, of the business

environment, and of ourselves! We believed that there was always more

potential than what we and others could see at the moment. That is why we

addressed problems and challenges with poise and opportunism. Sam had a

positive point of view. Sam was a living example to us of what we could

accomplish if we set our minds to it.

Passion for Excellence Means Believing the Impossible Is Possible

High expectations are a powerful driving force, helping you become better

than you already are. Sometimes you need to go one step further and step out

on faith, even when you don’t have history or research to predict success. As

the biblical writer said: “Now faith is being sure of what we hope for and

certain of what we do not see” (Heb. 11:1). Yes, past performance is the

greatest predictor of future performance—but if we lived by that credo alone,

no one would do anything bold and new. Sometimes we need good, old-

fashioned faith!

Wal-Mart grew 2,000 percent in the seventies and passed the $2 billion

mark in 1982. Many retail analysts predicted this as our peak—the more

established stores would leave us behind. But that was really only the

beginning of the coming Wal-Mart revolution. People continue to be amazed

by what we have accomplished in Wal-Mart since that time. And honestly,

sometimes in reflecting back on our next period of unbelievable growth, I

shake my head and pinch myself to make sure I didn’t dream it.

When I joined the company in the first quarter of 1980,Wal-Mart had just

completed a year with sales of $1.25 billion, Wal-Mart’s first billion-dollar

year.

When Sam passed away twelve short years later, in April 1992, our sales

had reached $44 billion, making us the largest retailer in the world.

By the end of fiscal year 2004, sales topped $256 billion—an increase of

$212 billion over the past twelve years. We had become the largest company

in the world. Truth is stranger than fiction, and what I just described to you is

impossible. But we did it.

The concept of “impossible” can do funny things to our thinking. We

really do limit in our minds what people working together can accomplish in

organizations. The extraordinary, the “impossible” things that Wal-Mart

accomplished were done by ordinary people. I don’t believe that such results

are limited to Wal-Mart. I believe there are hundreds and thousands of stories

just waiting to be written by organizations and companies who have leaders

that inspire people to accomplish things that seem impossible. The only way

that can happen, though, is if the leader believes it is possible—has even a

mustard seed of faith—and can convince his people that the seemingly

impossible is indeed possible.

Passion for Excellence Means Communicating, Communicating,

Communicating . . .

Every year we had a different annual theme, which we introduced at the

year-beginning meeting held in late January. But our theme didn’t fade away

when the banner came down; we repeated it over and over again throughout

the year. These themes were more than neat little slogans—they were really a

focus point to drive home an idea, a rallying point to engage everyone’s