SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Business Execution
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of excellent execution in achieving business success and how leaders can ensure consistent execution across the organization.
KEYWORDS: execution, organizational success, attention to detail, leadership, failure
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

What enemies of excellence exist in your life and company right now?

How committed are you to not only doing things right—but the best way they can be done?

Chapter 7

The Execution Imperative

The secret of success is to do common things uncommonly well.

—John D. Rockefeller Sr.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #7

Your success is in direct proportion to your ability to plan, monitor, and ultimately execute all phases of your business.

In The Wal-Mart Way, I address a full range of dynamics that must work together to create organizational success. You must start with a compelling vision that is shared throughout the organization and drives all that you do. You must have a product that meets the needs of your customers. You must be able to access resources in capital, assets, and most importantly, great people. You must have well-thought-out strategies that staff implements consistently in order to achieve your objectives. You must reinforce and cultivate an organizational culture that is built on a foundation of sound values and beliefs.

I also share in this book numerous strategies that Wal-Mart gained competency in as integral parts of our success story, including customer satisfaction, respect for our people, merchandising, marketing, pricing, technology, logistics, and community involvement. But the most critical element in any strategy is the ability to actually make it happen; to do it. Wal- Mart’s strategies served us only insofar as we executed them to the best of our abilities.

I believe it is possible to have all the right strategies, a fantastic vision, great access to capital, and everything else needed for success but still not

ever achieve it. That will always be the case if the people in your company fail to execute. This is where I have seen so many companies fail. How can that be? By the way, how is your organization when it comes to execution?

Attention to Detail

Consistent execution of a company’s various programs and strategies is certainly not easy, especially as a company becomes large. There are so many critical decisions and actions that must happen on so many different levels, made by so many different people, and in so many different locations. How does a leader make sure all that happens?

As leaders move higher in an organization and as that organization grows, there is a mistaken assumption, a widespread myth, that they no longer have time to be involved in the details of the business. As it correctly and appropriately becomes necessary for them to delegate more responsibilities and authority to others and to reallocate their time to activities that they consider of higher priority, many leaders make the critical error of losing touch with the frontline people in the organization and with their true boss, the customer.

Failure is the opportunity to begin again, more intelligently.

—Henry Ford

When leaders lose sight of the details, it is almost impossible for them to effectively evaluate how well their organization is executing. As an additional by-product, I would suggest to you that nothing will demoralize those who work for you more quickly than when you no longer have an active knowledge of what’s going on in the business.

There is no question that when people get promoted up the corporate ladder, they can no longer do everything they once did or in the same way they once did it. There simply aren’t enough hours in the day. I believe, however, it is essential that to be effective, a leader must continue to find ways to stay in touch with how the company operates.

The first key for a leader to stay intimately involved in the details of the organization is to have a system in place that allows him or her to monitor

details at a glance. We live in an information age, and with all the reports and sortable data that is instantly available at any manager’s fingertips, it is amazing how many leaders allow reports to stack up and gather dust on a corner of their credenzas. I’m not calling for more reports. But do read the ones you have.

The second key for leaders to stay intimately involved in the details of their organizations is to get out of their offices and head to where the action is. Work beside someone for a couple of hours. Ask him questions about his job. Talk to customers. (I will cover this in more detail later in the chapter.)

We have heard in recent years about too many senior leaders denying any responsibility for significant wrongdoing in their organizations because they weren’t aware of what was happening. While it is true that no organization is immune to individual managers and supervisors making bad and unethical decisions on key strategic issues, leadership must find a way to stay informed.

I do not believe that there is one right way for a leader to stay involved; the very nature of a particular business will dictate what is and what is not possible, and what is most important. But the key is for the leader to find a way to continue to receive feedback, both formally and informally, in order to effectively judge what’s going on.

Leaders Must Stay in Touch

Effective communication within an organization takes hard work. To stay in touch, you must remove physical distance as a barrier to be sure that your communication is not being filtered through too many layers. You must find a way to remain close to your associates and customers, making sure that you are available and not living in an ivory tower. Long before it became a popular business acronym, Sam believed in MBWA (management by walking around). Apart from all the good intentions and principles of providing outstanding customer satisfaction, there must be a method of evaluating the actual execution of those intentions and principles. You have to be sure that what you think should happen is actually taking place. We did it several ways.

Constant In-Store Presence