SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Data-Based Retail Management
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart utilizes advanced computer systems and data analysis to optimize its supply chain, inventory management, and merchandise selection for each store.
KEYWORDS: inventory management, supply chain optimization, data-driven merchandising, retail technology, community-based retail
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

used the network to transmit the stores’ merchandise orders directly into our

main computer for processing. After processing, the order-filling documents

were sent to the specific distribution center that evening for filling and

shipping the next day. Simultaneously, the computer adjusted and maintained

the store inventories for every item in the store.

Later on, we used the satellite network to speed up credit-card approval

and transactions for the stores and clubs. We also used this system for many

other types of communication, including transmission of training programs to

the stores and clubs as well as messages from senior management directly to

the associates in the field.

Currently,Wal-Mart is leading the way once again. ISD is at the forefront

of encouraging the retail industry to invest in radio-frequency identification

(RFID) as a means of better identifying and controlling the flow of freight

through the entire supply chain. As a benefit to both retailer and supplier

alike, RFID literally opens a whole new window to the supply chain that

makes it possible to identify and trace the exact location of every single

carton of freight and what’s in that particular carton at any moment in time. It

makes it possible to inventory an entire store electronically and accurately

without having to count the merchandise. I am convinced that RFID, too, will

become a major breakthrough technology in the years ahead. And Wal-Mart

is out in front.

Data-Based Management: Merchandising to America from Bentonville,

Arkansas

Wal-Mart’s computer system houses the largest commercial or private

database in the world. It is an incredible accumulation of information that is

the storehouse for all Wal-Mart systems. One of the many unique uses for

this extensive database is to capture 104 weeks of sales history by week for

every item in every store in the world. That information can be so powerful

and useful for determining merchandise sales trends, forecasting individual

item sales, capturing the seasonality of many items, and managing the

replenishment of each store’s inventory.

It would seem to be impossible for any group of buyers to merchandise

every store in the world from Bentonville, Arkansas. But this database makes

it possible to accurately determine what items each store sells best and allows

Wal-Mart to merchandise each store according to the specific needs of the

customers who shop in that particular store. We call this the Store of the

Community. Our overall objective of this program is to have the right

merchandise, at the right price, in the right store, at the right time. One size

does not fit all in the retail business. The computer develops a profile of the

customers’ merchandising needs and seasonal fluctuations that are unique to

each store.

Based on local and regional profiling, the computer automatically

replenishes everyday staple merchandise items in each store. But it also

determines the anticipated demand on discretionary items for each store

based on that store’s sales history, checks the inventory of that item in that

store daily, and then automatically creates an order and immediately

transmits it to the nearest distribution center. The order is filled in the

distribution center the next day, loaded onto a truck, and then shipped

directly to the store. On a continuing basis, department managers in each

store review their item movement and inventory reports and can revise the

way the computer is ordering any of their items and update all the data in the

system. While the replenishment of the items in each store is virtually

automatic, there is always the provision for human initiative to override or

refine the process.

The computer also checks the inventory of each item that is stocked in

each Wal-Mart distribution center on a daily basis. Based on the anticipated

demand of those items, the computer will create purchase orders and transmit

them directly to the suppliers’ computers overnight. On new items and

strictly seasonal categories, the computer develops suggested orders for the

buyers’ review, based on each store’s unique profile. This review is done on

an exception basis. Orders are then transmitted directly to the suppliers for

their shipments to our distribution centers.

This automated process has made it possible for Wal-Mart stores to be in

stock consistently and minimize the dollars invested in inventory at the same

time—that equals superior service for the customers and reduced capital

commitment from the company. The Wal-Mart Way has always been true to

our vision of satisfying our customers and maximizing the impact of our

assets through excellence.

Suppliers’ Access to Our Data

Our database is a crucial component of our business, and in 1991, our

Information Systems Division developed a next-generation database system

called Retail Link. (A more detailed explanation of the development of this

unique system and the rationale for it is in chapter 9,“Reinventing the Supply

Chain.”) Retail Link gives our suppliers access to the Wal-Mart database in

Bentonville from their own offices and on their own PCs. They can pull up

any item they sell to us and monitor retail sales of that item by day, by week,

by month, or by year. They have the further capability of seeing any of their

items’ sales by store, by district, by state, by region—or the entire company.

The data is updated eight times a day, making the information current and

accurate whenever they look at it. Our store associates, our buyers, and our

suppliers share exactly the same data, and that makes it possible for all of us

to maximize our overall performance.

The system is password-protected and has other safeguards so that each

manufacturer and supplier is limited to—and protected by—studying only his

or her own merchandise. Though Wal-Mart standards for merchandise sell-

through are tough, we provide our suppliers with state-of-the-art feedback to

improve their product development. No one wants to create merchandise that

customers don’t want!

This is perhaps the most beautiful time in human history; it is really pregnant with all kinds

of creative possibilities made possible by science and technology which now constitute the