SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Business History, Retail Management
SUMMARY: This book explores the story of Wal-Mart's success, focusing on its leadership, culture, and business principles that have driven its growth.
KEYWORDS: Wal-Mart, Retail Management, Business Leadership, Corporate Culture, Business Growth
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Scripture marked NLT is taken from the Holy Bible, New Living Translation, copyright © 1996. Used by permission of Tyndale House Publishers, Inc.,Wheaton, Illinois 60189. All rights reserved.

Cover Photo by Debrorah Billingsley Photography

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

Soderquist, Don.

The Wal-Mart way: the inside story of the success of the world’s largest company / Don Soderquist.

p. cm.

Includes bibliographical references. ISBN 0-7852-6119-2 (hardcover)

1. Wal-Mart (Firm)—Management. 2. Discount houses (Retail trade)—United States—Management. I. Title.

HF5429.215.U6S63 2005 381'.14906573--dc22

2004028644

Printed in the United States of America 05 06 07 08 09—5 4 3 2 1

This book is dedicated to Sam Walton, in memory, and the hundreds of thousands of Wal-Mart associates who

helped make this remarkable story a reality.

Contents

Preface

Introduction The Wal-Mart Way

Chapter 1 Growing Dreams

Chapter 2 Vision—The Power of Seeing What Others Don’t See Chapter 3 The Power of Culture

Chapter 4 People Make the Difference Chapter 5 The Customer Is the Boss Chapter 6 A Passion for Excellence Chapter 7 The Execution Imperative

Chapter 8 Technology—the Ultimate Change Agent Chapter 9 Reinventing the Supply Chain

Chapter 10 Creating Supplier Relationships Chapter 11 Never Stop Growing

Chapter 12 Good Neighbors Conclusion Scaling New Heights About the Author Acknowledgments

Appendix A: The Wal-Mart Way Principles

Appendix B: Perspective on External Criticism of Wal-Mart

Recommended Reading Notes

PREFACE

It’s what you learn after you know it all that counts.

—John Wooden

The shelves of bookstores are filled with many fine books on leadership and business success. Why another one? I believe there is always a need for simple truths—no matter how often they are told.

The Wal-Mart story is full of simple but important truths. It is a story that has mystified some, frustrated others, and been admired by many. It is a story about principled, focused leadership that has been able to effectively and consistently balance values and the bottom line in a way that has seldom occurred. It is a story about the power of the free-enterprise system and how that system is the engine that drives democracy. It is a story about trust—the basis of all successful relationships. It is a story about a special man, a special group of people, and a special organization. It is, I truly believe, a story that has positive applications for millions of people and organizations.

This book is not intended to be a history of Wal-Mart. It is not written to tell about the wonderful things the company has or has not done, though even the most casual reader will quickly understand how strongly I believe in the Wal-Mart way of doing business.

The two reasons I decided to write a book are both related to helping others. First, for all Wal-Mart associates, past, present, and future, this is a means of learning, celebrating, strengthening, and preserving the unique culture of our company. Second, and equally important, this is a way of sharing principles of success with others—small-business owners, high school and college students, leaders of Fortune 500 companies, middle managers, entrepreneurs, and countless others—who may learn from our experiences and gain inspiration and insights to fuel growth in their personal lives and in all their endeavors.

If, by reading this book, a person can say, “Ah-ha, now I get it; I see

something that could really help me,” then my purpose as an author has been fulfilled. One of the great motivators in my own life is to see someone who has been dealing with a particular issue experience authentic life change.

Nothing compares to seeing the light go on in the eyes of someone who is experiencing a major breakthrough in life.

I recognize that we live in a critical and somewhat skeptical age. I understand that some readers will open this book with a predisposition to resist the ideas of the Wal-Mart Way. I understand that and, in fact, I enjoy a lively and spirited discussion. I would just note that there is a certain irony about breakthroughs: they frequently come in very different ways than we might expect and for reasons that we don’t even realize. They are often surprising and they can be dynamite! Breakthroughs are most of all about self-discovery. I encourage all readers to engage the following pages with a spirit of openness. The Chinese proverb is true: when the student is ready, the teacher appears.

If I can help someone understand and apply concepts of success that he or she otherwise would have missed, then writing this book will have been one of the most rewarding experiences of my life.

Introduction

THE WAL-MART WAY

There are no secrets to success. It is the result of preparation, hard work, learning from failure.

—General Colin Powell

Most observers of the business world would acknowledge that the Wal- Mart story is an amazing story of success and is a great example—maybe the greatest example—of the free-enterprise system at work. How a man and his wife could invest six thousand dollars of personal savings and money borrowed from family members into a small business that fifty-five years later would become the largest company in the world is nothing short of remarkable, if not miraculous.

The Wal-Mart story begins with a man and his dream, supported by his convictions of right and wrong. The story begins to take shape with his uncanny ability to inspire a group of people to embrace his vision and create not only a one-of-a-kind company but a revolutionary business model that impacted the standard of living for millions upon millions of everyday people in America and worldwide. The story gains momentum as it is played out by humble men and women who were able to aim well beyond the horizon of the status quo, and who are still dreaming big dreams today.

The story continues to be written. It could, in fact, be duplicated by many others, and yet it is possible that it will never be written again.

So What’s the Secret?