SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Business Operations, Crisis Management
SUMMARY: A Walmart store in Wabash, Indiana overcomes a major fire and reopens in just 7 days, demonstrating the company's dedication to excellence and customer service.
KEYWORDS: Crisis Management, Operational Excellence, Dedication, Customer Service, Store Reopening
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Land a Man on the Moon

When I was a child, I read the popular comic strip Buck Rogers. Rogers wore a funny-looking outfit and traveled around in space in a shiny rocket. I liked reading Buck Rogers because it was like magic—the world of make- believe for young people. But later, the U.S. actually did it: we landed men on the moon and we got them back to Earth. In the 1950s two Harvard scientists conclusively proved that space travel was impossible (because of the weight of the fuel). Today we take space travel for granted.

These achievements were all perceived to be impossible, but they were accomplished. If these things were possible, what else is possible? Are there things in your organization that you or your people may think are impossible that in actuality could be done? No one believed that it was possible to build the largest corporation in the world in Bentonville, Arkansas, but we did it. If you can recognize that what others feel is impossible is actually possible, you can open up the boundaries of your mind. Who knows what you may be able to do?

I know the price of success: dedication, hard work, and an unremitting devotion to the things you want

to see happen.

—Frank Lloyd Wright

A Passion for Excellence in Wabash, Indiana: A Snapshot

On Monday, October 25, 1999, a fire started in the furniture department on the lamp counter in our Wabash, Indiana, store. The store manager was alerted, and he attempted to extinguish the fire but was unsuccessful. He discovered later that lamp oil on the counter fueled the fire. The fire department arrived and was able to put out the fire fairly quickly.

Unfortunately, however, there was extensive smoke damage throughout the store. All of the merchandise had to be removed from the store and salvaged, all of the ceiling tile had to be replaced, and all of the store fixtures had to be cleaned off or repainted. In essence, the entire store had to be cleared out and cleaned up before the new merchandise could be brought in and set in place. This was a major undertaking, almost like setting up a whole new store.

When aligned around shared values and united in a common mission, ordinary people achieve extraordinary results.

—Ken Blanchard

The store manager called the executive vice president of operations and said he would have to close the store for approximately twenty-one days. The executive vice president indicated that three weeks was too long for the store to be closed for our customers and challenged the district manager and store- planning vice president to do it in no more than seven days. The race was on.

What did we do?

Thursday: inventoried the store.

Friday: shipped all the merchandise out of the store and removed all of the ceiling tile.

Saturday: cleaned every fixture in the store; painted the store; replaced the carpet and ceiling tile.

Sunday: received freight.

Monday: set the merchandise on the counters and opened the store for business at 4 PM

Some of the most significant achievements during the six days included:

We built a temporary pharmacy by the front door of the store that operated continuously throughout the crisis.

The trucking department drove all fourteen thousand ceiling tiles from Oklahoma to Wabash in less than forty-eight hours.

The store operated a number of departments from tents in the parking lot during the six-day period.

The Specialty Division reset the photo and jewelry areas in forty-eight hours.

Company pilots volunteered to help receive and move the merchandise from the back room as it was being unloaded from the company trucks.

The salvage-company owner said that in his forty-two years in business, he had never seen anything this big accomplished so quickly—that the week should have been submitted for inclusion in the Guinness Book of World Records.

The local K-Mart brought in twenty additional trailers of merchandise into their stores in response to the situation. They thought we would be down for three months. The K-Mart district manager walked around in disbelief when we opened only six days later.

Store planners drove twelve hours through the first night to get there and guide the setup.

Carpet layers did a four-day job in eighteen hours.

Marketing got the store signage to the store from Kansas City in twenty- four hours.

Merchandising replenished the store from ground zero in less than a week.

Local warehouses sent a driver to do nothing but move trailers and facilitate the loading and unloading in the store.

Surrounding Wal-Mart stores sent three hundred associates to help reset the store.

The local Supercenter fed three hundred workers per day in the parking lot for a week.

Loss Prevention was on site providing security throughout the entire process, twenty-four hours per day. When the store was inventoried again after the setup, all merchandise was accounted for, and nothing was missing.

And finally, what were the lessons we learned?

Wal-Mart associates respond to challenges like no other team—it is part of the company culture and gets inside people’s thinking. We were vividly reminded that this company and team of people can do anything they put their hearts and minds to.

Set high goals—get the store up and running in seven days—and then get out of great people’s way.

You can change the way things are done. Who cares if you’re supposed to be down for three months or even three weeks?

Celebrate achievement. The pride the associates showed inspired everyone in Wal-Mart, and management invited key associates in this undertaking to a Saturday meeting to recognize them for their incredible accomplishment.

It is possible to do the impossible.