SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Teamwork
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of employee engagement, teamwork, and a supportive management culture to achieve organizational success.
KEYWORDS: employee engagement, teamwork, management culture, Wal-Mart, J.C. Penney
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

You are paying attention to your environment—a common characteristic and discipline of ambitious, growing individuals.

You are self-assured of your own contributions and aren’t caught up in petty competitions and proving you’re smarter than everyone else.

You stand out because you are optimistic and positive—not everyone

chooses to find the positives in individuals or situations.

You have the confidence to express yourself—and communication is the lifeblood of all good relationships and organizations.

Bottom line, recognizing others is both a matter of the heart and a discipline. I can still remember countless times when, at the end of a long and exhausting day, Sam was sitting across the break room table from an hourly associate, sipping a soft drink with him or her and discussing the morale of the store—or just as likely, something happening in that person’s family or personal life. The CEO of a multibillion-dollar company doesn’t have to do that. Sam wanted to. He was sincerely interested in people.

And Sam instilled that same regard for others throughout the entire Wal- Mart organization.

If You Want to Go Far . . . Go Together

When people feel good about themselves, then they can feel good about others. When people feel good about each other, they can work together as a team, and when people work as a team, they are able to accomplish exceedingly more than anyone could hope to expect. As the old African proverb reminds us: “If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together.”

Use power to help people. For we are given power not to advance our own purposes, nor to make a great show in the world, nor a name. There is but one just use of power, and it is to serve people.

—George H. W. Bush

A key part of the Wal-Mart success story is the way our associates “go together,” the way they work together and support one another. This camaraderie takes place in the stores, the clubs, the distribution centers, and the home office. All of our associates—from the department manager at a local Wal-Mart, to the order stockers, to our truck drivers, to our senior leadership members—all are vital parts of the Wal-Mart team.

I’m not saying that we’re perfect; we’re not. We are human beings just like

people in other companies, but there is something very special about Wal- Mart associates the world over. The biggest part of that special something begins with the way management treats people. Hundreds and hundreds of times I have had associates say to me that they have never experienced the relationship they have with Wal-Mart management anywhere they previously worked. Management is accessible to them, talks to them, listens to them, and even works beside them. Wal-Mart associates are proud to be a part of the “family” and are loyal to the company.

I will have no man work for me who has not the capacity to become a partner.

—J. C. Penney

Whether your organization is a large corporate entity or a small business with only a few employees, a winning team is born the day leaders purpose to make people feel that they are significant and that their work has value by treating them with dignity and respect.

What Do Respect and Dignity Look Like?

One of my most important lessons about treating people with respect and dignity happened in Bartlett, Tennessee, in 1990. I walked into the Wal-Mart store, and it looked great. I can walk into any Wal-Mart store and in five minutes—ten at the outside—tell you how well that store is run by what I see, what I hear, and what I observe on the part of the Wal-Mart associates.

This store looked terrific: the shelves were well stocked, the store was neat and clean, and everybody was friendly and smiling. I didn’t introduce myself to management; I just walked around, talking to associates and customers.

In the Infants Department, I saw three managers working together. I walked over, introduced myself, and asked what they were all doing in the same department. They pointed to the Infants’ manager and said, “Oh, she just needs a little help—she is a brand-new manager and we are back here helping her for a while.”

I asked who had told them to help her. They replied that no one had

specifically told them to help her, but they knew she was still trying to learn the department and it was very busy that morning. “We just knew she had a lot of work to do, so we came back to help her.”

What a delight to work in an environment where people don’t have to be told everything that has to be done. Those associates in that store were obviously well trained and had a great attitude. They operated as a team.

I went into the lunchroom in the back of the store and asked a group of hourly associates to join me for a visit. I loved to do that every time I went into a store because it gave me an opportunity to listen to our associates and hear what was on their minds. I could easily get a feeling about how things were going in the store, how they felt the manager was doing, and how he or she was treating them. I asked them to evaluate their store on such things as customer service, housekeeping, having products in stock, signage, morale, and other issues. I found most associates to be incredibly honest and forthright in describing their work world to me. (I think their candor is powerful testimony to the fact that Wal-Mart truly has an open communication style where most associates aren’t intimidated that a “big shot” from corporate is visiting. Believe me, they aren’t intimidated!) They knew they had the freedom to express themselves—and make a difference.