SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: International Expansion Strategy
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart is focused on international expansion, bringing its low-price model and customer satisfaction to new markets around the world.
KEYWORDS: international expansion, low prices, customer satisfaction, global growth
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

increasing percentage of our growth will come from the international division

as we continue to bring everyday low prices and our brand of customer

satisfaction to the countries we are already in and extend those values into

other parts of the world.

International Wal-Mart Stores and Sam’s Clubs

Country Number of Stores*

Argentina 11

Brazil 149

Canada 248

China 43

Germany 91

South Korea 16

Mexico 694

Puerto Rico 54

United Kingdom 278

* As of January 2005

For reflection and action:

1. Does your company or organization have a growth strategy that “the

troops” understand and discuss?

2. Have you encountered the temptation to expand without investing solidly

in your core business base? How do you balance growth of existing assets

with adding new assets?

3. What would you be willing to do to see your company grow? Write down

what you believe are the four to five essential components for your

organization to grow.

4. How have you handled difficulties and obstacles to growth?

Chapter 12

Good Neighbors

Remember this: Whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows

generously will also reap generously.

—Saint Paul (2 Corinthians 9:6)

Wal-Mart Way Principle #12

When you cultivate a spirit of charitable giving and civic involvement within your organization, you

exponentially increase your tangible and intangible returns—including the personal character of your

team.

T

here’s much talk these days about “corporate responsibility” and what is

expected of business organizations regarding their obligation to society. We

never approached the subject from that standpoint—in fact, we never debated

or discussed our obligation or responsibility or our failure to meet our

responsibilities. Rather, Wal-Mart has been involved in its communities and

all forms of charitable giving from the very beginning—because Sam wanted

to. It’s the way he thought. It’s the way he was. It’s the way our company

grew. Our corporate giving is as much a part of our history and culture as

anything else we do.

The Wal-Mart Philosophy of Giving

Like so many things at Wal-Mart, the company’s philosophy on

community giving and involvement bears the handprint of Sam Walton. Sam

expected his local stores to give back to their communities through charitable

giving and strongly encouraged the personal involvement of store, club, and

distribution managers in local activities. He certainly practiced what he

preached. He was active as a community volunteer in Bentonville,Arkansas,

serving as chairman of the board of the Bentonville Chamber of Commerce

and as an active member of numerous local civic organizations as well as

statewide boards and personally participating in many important community

issues.

He and his wife,Helen, had a particular interest in the field of education

and helping young people. The family is carrying on that interest to this day

through the Walton Family Foundation. Helen was a very active participant

with Sam in all of their family outreach efforts. Her trademark message was

that it is what you “scatter” in life, not what you “gather,” that ultimately

defines the life you have led. In fact, the Helen Walton Community

Involvement Award is given once a year to the store, club, and distribution

center that best exemplifies her philosophy through its participation with its

local community.

Now, some people will read the preceding paragraphs with skepticism. The

thinking is that most companies are greedy and care only about bottom- line

profits; that companies do charitable acts for the free publicity that usually

accompanies compassionate outreach. Why would Sam—or the company he

founded—be any different? It was Saint Paul who said, “A man reaps what

he sows” (Gal. 6:7). In fact, I believe the greatest return from a company’s

giving is not publicity, but a caring, generous workforce—and Wal-Mart has

the greatest! That said, I do believe Sam had a sincere and generous heart

when it came to giving, and he cultivated that personal commitment in his

company.

We’re talking about the Wal-Mart culture. Sam wove caring throughout

our culture. Wal-Mart not only cares about Wal-Mart customers and

associates, but we also care about the vitality of the communities where we

serve. We want to help worthwhile organizations and needy individuals. We

care deeply about the health and well-being of our communities and the

people who live there. We are not casual about giving. We have a clear

purpose and direction that guides all of our decisions.

Wal-Mart’s style and philosophy of giving are not separate from our core

business practices. Our goal has always been first and foremost to serve our

customers, which is why we serve our communities, not as some face less

corporation, but as a good neighbor, and not because it’s a good marketing

strategy, but because it’s the right thing to do.

Store of the Community

Wal-Mart wants to be a vital part of every community where we have an

operating unit and help that community prosper and grow. We are not there

simply to make money but to benefit that community as an active and

contributing member. Store, club, and distribution center managers are

expected to be involved in their communities in a personal way by serving on

the local chamber of commerce boards, civic organizations, and school

boards. While we are a national organization, our charitable activities are

focused on each individual store and the people we serve there.

The service we render others is the rent we pay for our room on earth.

—Wilfred Grenfell

Moreover, we believe that everyone in the company, not just managers,

should be community-minded, and therefore we encourage all our associates

to become involved in local organizations and volunteer their time. We even

make contributions to the organizations they work with based on the number

of hours they donate. As a result, each year Wal-Mart associates volunteer

over one million hours (that we know about) of their personal time to local

not-for-profit organizations.

To mobilize our community-building efforts, in 1979, Wal-Mart formally

established the Wal-Mart Foundation. Today, the Wal-Mart Foundation has