SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Growth Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses Sam Walton's ambitious growth vision for Wal-Mart, which was initially met with skepticism but ultimately proved successful.
KEYWORDS: Retail growth, High expectations, Vision, Wal-Mart, Sam Walton
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

that way, all of the energies of the organization are focused on the same

objective. That’s when the vision happens.

A $2 Billion Dream

A CEO of a retail chain in the East told me a personal story that illustrates

Sam’s thought process as related to having high expectations. It happened in

a meeting the two attended together back in 1971.

There was a group of eight small regional discount store chains whose

executives met several times a year to share ideas on how to improve their

operations. None of their stores were in competition with each other, as they

were in different geographical locations. The K-Mart chain was rapidly

converting its Kresge dime stores to large discount stores, and these stores

had become very tough competition for all of the small chains. The

executives needed to be as sharp as they could if they wanted to continue to

be successful.

Dream lofty dreams, and as you dream, so you shall become.Your vision is the promise of what you

shall one day be; your ideal is the prophecy of what you shall at last unveil.

—James Lane Allen

The CEOs, the chief merchandise officers, and the chief operations officers

would all meet near one of the members’ best stores. They would visit the

store, analyze it, and then share their observations with the company’s

leadership team. These critiques were very direct and to the point for the

purpose of helping that chain improve its operations and service to its

customers. Eventually every one of the chains would benefit from such a

review by its peers.

At the end of one of these meetings in 1971, one of the CEOs thought it

would be interesting to hear what each thought his company sales would be

in ten years. The first CEO said that his sales were at $40 million in the past

year, and he believed that they could move them up to $80 million in a

decade. The next one said that his company’s sales were $60 million, and he

expected to be at $100 million in ten years. Another said that sales were

already at $100 million, and he believed his stores could reach $160 million

in that period. Finally, Sam said that Wal-Mart sales were at $44 million, and

he expected that in ten years they would reach $2 billion. Everyone laughed.

What they didn’t understand at the time was that Sam was serious. Ten years

later,Wal-Mart sales exceeded $2 billion. Sam modeled the power of high

expectations.

If you don’t know where you’re going, it doesn’t matter which way you go.

—Lewis Carroll

Just to show how audacious his vision was on that day in 1971, the

following chart shows the sales of some of the well-known retailers in that

same year:

Sears $9.3 Billion

JC Penney $4.2 Billion

Montgomery Ward $2.8 Billion

K-Mart $2.6 Billion

Woolworth $2.5 Billion

Wal-Mart, then only the thirty-sixth-largest discount chain in the country,

passed all of those other retailers one by one, eventually becoming the largest

company in the world. It could happen only in America.

For reflection and action:

1. How do you go about creating a vision? Unless you are awakened in the

middle of the night by a dream that presents to you a magnificent vision of

your future, there’s probably no better place to begin than with questions.

2. So where are you going? Based on your activities and efforts today, where

are you taking your department, your organization, your industry? What is

it that you really want to become? How do you want to look ten years from

now? What is the picture of the future that inspires you—and the people

around you? Do you ever stop and notice the little things that others simply

ignore?

3. But don’t stop with questions. Capture your answers in writing with a

notebook or journal and then develop a plan.

Chapter 3

The Power of Culture

Every great institution is the lengthened shadow of a single man.

His character determines the character of his organization.

—Ralph Waldo Emerson

Wal-Mart Way Principle #3

To build a great company, you must create a culture where everyone shares the same values,

purposes, and expectations of success.

Everyone knows what separates Wal-Mart from the competition. It’s

everyday low prices, right? Not so fast!

When I first arrived at Wal-Mart in 1980, that was my assessment too. But

it didn’t take me very long to discover a much more profound and powerful

reality that Sam had set in motion. As you read this chapter, I hope that you,

too, discover what I believe is the most important factor in the future success

of your company or organization.

John Gardner, former secretary of health education and welfare, founder of

Common Cause, a nonpartisan organization that holds elected officials

accountable, and author of numerous books on leadership, has a profound

understanding of the most important responsibilities leadership requires,

while offering unique insights into the essence of culture:

A great civilization is a drama lived in the minds of a people. It is a shared vision, shared

norms (values), shared purposes, and shared expectations! In any healthy, reasonably

coherent community, people come to have shared views concerning right and wrong, better

and worse. (On Leadership)

Shared vision, shared values, shared expectations, shared purposes, shared

views—obviously, the key word here is “shared.” In other words, Gardner

believes that a successful culture is one where the people are united by

common standards, and those standards provide the basis for all their actions.

And that’s where the role of leadership—from the boardroom to the frontline

department manger—becomes so crucial. It is the leader’s responsibility to

“tell the story,” “paint the picture,” “walk the talk” of what is truly important

to an organization. In great organizations, a leader’s words and actions model

what really matters, and as a result, everyone gets on the same page and pulls

together.

One of the keys—I believe, the key—to Wal-Mart’s success story has been