SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Loss Prevention Strategy
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's Loss Prevention team increased their recovery goal from $2.5 million to $10 million by investing in additional resources and changing their approach.
KEYWORDS: loss prevention, goal setting, process improvement, investment, performance targets
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Set high goals—get the store up and running in seven days—and then get out of great people’s way.

You can change the way things are done. Who cares if you’re supposed to be down for three months or even three weeks?

Celebrate achievement. The pride the associates showed inspired everyone in Wal-Mart, and management invited key associates in this undertaking to a Saturday meeting to recognize them for their incredible accomplishment.

It is possible to do the impossible.

The bar had been raised, and every store that has experienced a similar disaster since that time has reopened in less than one week. People from all over the world have called to find out how they did it. This is another example of how the passion for excellence at Wal-Mart has continued to impact industry standards and expectations worldwide.

A Passion for Excellence Means Investing in Your Business

Our Loss Prevention team developed a program that they called Restitution and Civil Recovery, which was a way of getting money back from people who were caught stealing from Wal-Mart. Although our restitution people had done a great job, I knew we weren’t reaching our full potential in that area. They had recovered about $2.5 million—about industry standard based on our sales. The $2.5 million was important because it went right to the company’s bottom line—ultimately saving our customers money—and was a big increase over the previous year.

The departmental team came in and presented a budget to me for the next year of $3.5 million. They were rightfully proud because percentage-wise, it was a significant increase. I complimented them on their plan to significantly increase recoveries, then asked what it would take to get to $10 million. Their response was, “Ten million? We can’t do $10 million. That’s not realistic, Don.”

I asked them why it wasn’t realistic. And they said, “We would have to change everything we do.”

I said, “Ah-ha, that’s it. So the way you can get the $10 million is by changing what you do? Take a couple of weeks and go back to the drawing board. Come back and tell me what you need in order to get to $10 million in recoveries this year.”

The team came back a couple weeks later with their new plan in hand. To achieve 400 percent growth, the plan included adding nineteen people to the home office department, which, of course, was going to add expense before recovering even a single dollar. They went on to say that the plan would also require additional computer programming support in order to get the reports they needed.

I agreed,“Then that’s what we’ll do. Go ahead and start hiring the nineteen people. I’ll talk to the people in information systems, and we’ll get the tech support you need to write the programs. If we do that, can I expect you to get the $10 million?”

“Absolutely” was their confident answer.

We added approximately $500,000 dollars of new costs, and in the next twelve months the team reached the $10 million in recoveries. That was a terrific return on our investment. And it was a wonderful example of what happens when the passion for excellence grows throughout a company. They did it; I didn’t. It took changing just about everything they did, which wasn’t my idea—it was theirs. Yes, leadership challenged them to get their number, but they didn’t grumble; they simply accepted the challenge and came back with a solid plan. Yes, they saw that I had a lot of confidence in them and their plan—and I gave them the resources they needed and had clearly defined—but again, they were so excited about blasting through previous achievements that they made it happen.

They did all sorts of fun things to accomplish their goal: contests, colorful wall charts, and their own humorous slogans. It was a joy to watch. The whole department was involved,which created a new measure of enthusiasm and kept the challenging process of working on the recovery of stolen property from being a downer.

At the end of the year we threw a big party for everyone in the department to celebrate their $10 million accomplishment. The next year, they came back with a plan to recover $17 million. Again, they told me exactly what they needed in the way of resources in order to make it happen. They got the $17 million! Not only were they able to do something great for the company, but they also learned—and taught others—the amazing things that can happen with a passion for excellence.

The Loss Prevention team members achieved even more then they ever imagined. They didn’t do it—and couldn’t have done it—by cutting corners. They accomplished something great by doing their business in a better way and by making an investment in the business.

Business is tough. We are all looking for ways to cut costs. But a passion for excellence is about making wise investments in people and in their ideas.

Passion for Excellence Means Counting the Costs

It’s good to set goals above and beyond the status quo. And it’s good to dream and believe the impossible is possible. But is there a danger in setting goals that are totally unrealistic and unattainable? Absolutely! When leadership arbitrarily sets goals and hands them off to the team with instructions to “just do it,” instead of inspiring people, it has the exact opposite effect: it deflates and demotivates the very people who are responsible for reaching the goals. We all know that without enthusiasm and personal ownership, it is next to impossible to accomplish something significant.