SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Logistics and Distribution
SUMMARY: The text discusses Walmart's continuous improvement in warehouse management, distribution, and material handling to revolutionize logistics and support rapid company growth.
KEYWORDS: logistics, distribution, continuous improvement, material handling, warehouse management
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

that point, we were the only retailer managing freight this way, and we had

established the framework for revolutionizing logistics.

Continuous Improvement

As our company grew and expanded geographically,we continued to open

new warehouses. We always aimed to build in smaller communities where

we could help the local economy and provide jobs for the local people—we

felt a loyalty to our roots in small communities and found that the people

living in these communities were usually very friendly and hardworking.

We started by looking in a general area on a map and identifying potential

towns. A real-estate associate then visited all of the sites and recommended a

few possibilities. We considered all the demographics involved, and then

senior leadership flew out to look at the potential locations from the air—

Sam liked to look at the road systems and traffic flow from that vantage—

before driving around the area to take an up-close look. I remember the day

that Sam and I flew over Cullman, Alabama, on one such trip. We had visited

a number of other locations, but when Sam saw the rolling hills and chicken

houses from the air he said, “Don, this is it. It looks just like northwest

Arkansas.”

Gentlemen, the officer who doesn’t know his communications and supply as well as his tactics is totally

useless.

—General George S. Patton

With a keen eye to improving on past performances, we built every new

warehouse with major upgrades over the previous one. Each one has been

more efficient, more cost-effective, and has had greater storage capacity than

the last one. In order to move more merchandise and keep up with

tremendous store growth, we then developed mechanization and then

automation. As these new systems and processes were implemented, the

older model distribution centers were retrofitted so the entire network was

kept current and uniform.

At first, we outfitted our warehouses with the usual material-handling

equipment and conveyor systems that the manufacturers were producing.

Over time, we began to challenge them to build equipment that was better

suited to our specific needs. They ended up designing and producing

equipment that no one had even envisioned, and before long, the warehouses

were transformed into state-of the-art, full-line distribution centers, including

conveyor systems equipped with barcode scanners to read and sort cartons of

merchandise and move those cartons from one place in the warehouse all the

way to a specific point on the shipping dock and into a waiting trailer. This

tremendously reduced time and costs to move merchandise. I believe that

Wal-Mart was a real pioneer in the application of material-handling

equipment to a retail distribution center.

When solving problems, dig at the roots instead of just hacking at the leaves.

—Anthony J. D’Angelo

I remember a time when several of our frontline associates came to me,

saying they weren’t able to move the merchandise through our conveyor

system fast enough. We had already increased the speed of our conveyor

belts as fast as they could go. Their idea was that since we couldn’t safely

make the belts go any faster, we needed to get our conveyor manufacturer to

reduce the distance between the cartons as they moved down the conveyor

and thereby improve the output. The first reaction from the manufacturer

management was unyielding—they had never done it before, and they

believed they couldn’t do it. We encouraged them to go back to the drawing

board and find a way. A few weeks later, they came back and said they could

do it. They had to revise and upgrade a number of things in their camera and

support systems that read the bar code. They did it for us within a short

period of time.

Many of the innovations that our logistics team developed to make our

distribution centers more effective and efficient are now being used in

competitors’ distribution centers across the country. And we’ve continued to

make advances. In the late nineties,Wal-Mart implemented special electronic

equipment, including radio-frequency-controlled order filling systems. This

meant that order fillers no longer worked off of printed documents or labels.

Interacting with the computer through headsets and microphones attached to

control units hooked on their belts, they received voice messages to identify

the location and item number of each item to be picked. They verbally replied

to the computer once they pulled the item, and the computer in turn verbally

verified the accuracy of the item picked. This system not only improved

productivity but also improved the accuracy of the entire order filling

process. In addition,we have employed a method of having the computer

assign locations to inbound freight and thereby electronically controlling both

the storing and retrieving of all merchandise in the building.

Not only has our use of equipment changed, but the layout of the

distribution centers has continued to evolve and become more efficient. We

began to build taller distribution centers so that we could use the cubic feet

more effectively. In fact, we have changed just about everything we used to

do in a distribution center, and we are still changing. At any point in time,

there are numerous experiments under way, and many of them result in new

systems that improve productivity and service. Wal-Mart culture has helped

us to avoid the temptation to believe that “we have arrived.”We are always

acutely aware that we still have a lot more to learn.

Measuring and Tracking Performance

Over the years, the logistics team became real experts in measuring and

analyzing every aspect of their operation. Just as with every other function in

Wal-Mart, the team carefully scrutinized the monthly profit-and-loss

statements for any slippage in performance and took corrective action

immediately. Every morning, all managers in all distribution centers receive

detailed recaps of the previous day’s numbers for their areas. The managers

then dissect each function to find areas where they can improve performance.

They also continuously scan these numbers for possible systems

improvements that they can make. The numbers are not just production