SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Store Improvement
SUMMARY: The text discusses Walmart's strategy of remodeling and expanding stores to maintain a professional appearance and increase sales.
KEYWORDS: store remodeling, store expansion, customer experience
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Change is inevitable, growth is intentional.

—Anonymous

Serving customers well involves maintaining a professional appearance, and after a store has been open for a number of years, it begins to look “shopworn.” If a particular location didn’t warrant an expansion, we went in and remodeled the store, putting in new fixtures, replacing outdated cash registers with the latest equipment—anything to freshen up the store.

Whenever we did that, we experienced an almost automatic increase in sales and received great comments from our customers.

We were far more aggressive than the competition on remodeling and expanding our stores, in part because we had to be. Growing sales meant more customer traffic, which meant more wear and tear on the facility, which meant more frequent remodeling and expansion, which meant more sales . . . Whether we relocated, expanded, or remodeled a store, we never closed it for even one day. If we weren’t going to let a fire shut down a store in Wabash, Indiana, for even a single week, we weren’t going to let a remodel close us for even one day! We felt we owed it to our customers to remain open, even if the store was torn up and we were moving merchandise around. We did most of the work at night with a crew of associates from other stores and headed up by our Store Planning department.

One who gains strength by overcoming obstacles possesses the only strength which can overcome adversity.

The Acquisitions Strategy

—Albert Schweitzer

We had many opportunities to acquire other chains over the years. We were very, very selective in choosing which ones to consider. As a result, we turned down most opportunities presented to us. The chain had to fit into our overall strategic direction and be priced right before we would become serious. One of the real advantages we looked for in these acquisitions was the quality of the people we would inherit.

Several of the acquired companies that were particularly rich in good people included Kuhns Big K, the Warehouse Club,Woolco of Canada, and ASDA of Great Britain. (I will say more on international acquisitions later.) Many of their people have risen to top ranks within Wal-Mart and continue to perform well today. It’s amazing what happened when we acquired stores and continued to operate them in the same locations with almost the same type of merchandise and mostly the same people—but with Wal-Mart’s everyday low-price marketing strategy and Wal-Mart’s operational model.

Woolco, for example, was the number-four discounter in Canada at the time we acquired it. It doubled its sales in three years and today is the runaway number-one retailer in Canada.

International Acquisitions

Selective acquisitions have been an important part of our growth, especially in the international division. When we invested in Cifra, it was already the number-one retail chain in Mexico and continues to be so today. What’s even more amazing is that Cifra continues to be the fastest-growing chain percentage- wise in Mexico, not as easy a task for the largest company in a category.

ASDA was undoubtedly one of our finest acquisitions. It was already an excellent chain in Great Britain, specializing in food. The organization had great merchants and a wonderful management team from top to bottom. It was almost a perfect match with our culture; in many respects, we thought the same way and operated the same way. In fact, we were able to improve our U.S. operations by learning many things from ASDA, especially in food merchandising, while ASDA learned from us in the areas of general merchandising and systems.

Frequently when we acquired a company in another country, we found that aspects of the business infrastructure in that country were not as advanced as that of the U.S. Rather than consider this a problem or an obstacle, we viewed it as an opportunity not only to improve the performance of the acquired company, but also to assist the entire industry in order to reduce the supply- chain costs and reduce the prices to the customers in those markets. That may sound like a bold statement, but we did just that. Consider the following quote in Newsweek:

When Wal-Mart strides into a new market, it’s as if a bull has gotten loose in the china shop. Papers scream the news, stocks gyrate and local retailers start to scramble. Wal-Mart is already being credited with holding down inflation in Mexico, with improving Britain’s cost  of living and with helping to revolutionize the distribution system in China.1

On the other hand, several international acquisitions have been much more difficult because of cultural differences and challenges in converting to Wal- Mart systems. Analysts have singled out and discussed Germany, for example, for a number of years as a problem area for Wal-Mart. There is no question that it has taken us longer than anticipated to achieve the margins there we are used to. But I have never sensed negativity within Wal-Mart,

rather a firm confidence that Germany will become a very profitable country for Wal-Mart in the future. We have an experienced and highly qualified leadership team in place in Germany, and it is already making it happen. As with other challenges, this has not deterred Wal-Mart from continuing to add new countries internationally, and we will continue to do so.

If you play it safe in life you’ve decided that you don’t want to grow any more.

—Shirley Mount Hufstedler

People who are not familiar with Wal-Mart don’t understand our resolve to make things work—the greater the challenge, the greater our determination.

New Formats

The sixth component of our growth strategy has been the addition of new formats. I’ve already mentioned the birth of Sam’s, Supercenters, international stores, and the newest format, the Neighborhood Markets. I can’t tell you today what new retail concepts will emerge for Wal-Mart in the future, but I can unequivocally state: if there is a better way to serve our customers, Wal-Mart will find it.