SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Entrepreneurship, Vision, and Growth
SUMMARY: The text describes Sam Walton's entrepreneurial journey, from starting a small variety store to building the Wal-Mart retail chain through his commitment to learning, growth, and serving customers.
KEYWORDS: Entrepreneurship, Vision, Growth, Retail, Customer Service
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Have fun.

Support his family.

Honor his Lord.

But what made this man’s dream extraordinary—and grow beyond his or anyone else’s wildest expectations—was that he cultivated it with a personal commitment to learn, to grow, to accomplish in one lifetime all that he could. One day at a time and every day.

That man’s name was Sam Walton, and so the dream began.

He bought his own store—a small variety store.

He found a supplier of merchandise—Ben Franklin.

He worked really, really hard.

He had fun and created excitement wherever he went.

He touched people’s lives.

He treated people well.

He made many friends.

He was a loving husband and father.

His sales increased, and his profits grew.

The First Detour—All Roads Lead to Bentonville

Sam unexpectedly lost the lease on his first store in Newport, Arkansas.

Did that end the dream? Not on your life; he had tasted success, and it tasted good. He had the fever now and more than ever, he knew he could do it—he

knew it could be done!

So the dream continued. He searched the countryside, found a town named Bentonville, Arkansas, and pinpointed a new store location. He improved his business methods by constantly talking to his associates, his competitors, and his customers. When things didn’t work, he changed them. When customers asked for more value and variety, he worked doggedly to fulfill those requests. He did a lot of things right. (And, of course, he made a few mistakes along the way.) And with a growing passion for his dream, with a smile and homespun charisma, he created a buzz, an excitement, a sense of anticipation around and within his company. He had a lot of fun doing it. And his sales continued to grow.

Sam was always looking to the future and his dream. Why not two stores? Why not three—or even four? He went to his brother and said,“Bud, I need your help. It’s getting too big for me. This business I have going really works. If you treat people special and you sell customers what they want to buy, they keep coming back. But I need to make some changes if I want to grow. I can’t keep up with all the tasks and all the details anymore. I’ll stay involved, you can bet on that, but I can’t do it all myself. I need to start depending a whole lot more on others.

“Please come and join me. Let’s find some good people. Let’s train them. Let’s show them what we want them to do. Let’s trust them with running our stores, and then let’s pay them what they earn from the profits of our stores. Let’s talk to our customers and our associates. We need to keep getting better. We need to learn from our competitors but do it even better than they do. We need to change the shelves in the store, the merchandise we sell, the signs, and the store hours. We’ve got to do whatever it takes to satisfy our customers.”

A Second Detour—the Birth of Wal-Mart

Sam’s business continued to grow. He and his brother, Bud, continued to add stores until by 1962 they had built a regional chain of fifteen stores. They had become Ben Franklin’s largest franchisee.

But not content to rest on his already considerable accomplishments, Sam

traveled across the land and watched what his most successful competitors were doing. They were building larger and larger stores.

“Our stores are too small,” he said to Bud. “There’s not enough room for all the merchandise our customers are asking for. They don’t want to have to drive to larger cities to buy the merchandise they need and want right now.

They also want the lower prices that they pay in the larger cities. We’ve got to rework our plan and start building bigger stores if we want to satisfy our customers.”

The man needed to change and grow along with his dream to get where he wanted to go, and he asked for help.

“Mr. Ben Franklin Company,” Sam said, “please help me build larger stores in my small towns. I know it’s not been done before, but my people are asking for more assortments and lower prices. I’ve got an idea for them. Will you work with me and franchise these larger stores? Will you sell the merchandise to me at a lower price since I need to reduce the prices to my customers? You’ll do okay, too, because I’ll be buying a lot more merchandise from you.”

“It will never work,” they said. “We can’t do that. There are not enough people out there for discount stores. You will never be able to generate enough business in those small towns. Larger stores work in the larger cities. Smaller stores for smaller towns. Everyone knows that. Be content. You’re already the biggest and best at what you do. And by the way, we can’t sell the merchandise to you for a lower price than we sell it to everyone else. The risk in this plan is too great for everyone—including you.”

“I’ll gladly be your guinea pig,” Sam argued. “Let me take the risk. This is something I’ve got to try.”

“Sorry, but no,” was their final answer. “You’ve done a great job, Sam Walton, and we respect what you have accomplished, but we’re not going in that direction.”

“Then we’ll have to do it on our own,” he said to Bud. He knew change was necessary to follow his dream—a simple dream that had stayed true to its ideals—and he wasn’t going to give up now.

Wal-Mart was born.

The Dream Continues to Grow

Not giving up meant that Sam had to acquire computers, warehouses, trucks, and many other things that were all brand-new to his business. It also meant the birth of Wal-Mart discount stores. It was a big risk, it took a lot of courage and openness to change, but he and his associates made it work.