SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and Onboarding
SUMMARY: The text discusses how Wal-Mart perpetuates its positive organizational culture by selectively hiring and extensively training new associates to embody the company's values and attitudes.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, employee onboarding, Wal-Mart culture, new hire training, cultural fit
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Perpetuating our culture with new associates actually begins before they are even hired! Wal-Mart has been fortunate to have plenty of people who want to come work for us—many more applicants than job openings. This means that the hiring team can be selective about whom it chooses and actively look for people who will be receptive to the Wal-Mart culture. This is critical. These are the people who will be the Wal-Mart representatives to the customers. Every company wants to have people who are capable, pleasant, positive, and cooperative. We always encouraged our managers to “hire happy people.” Why? The Wal-Mart culture is characterized by a positive attitude, which is easier to hire than create.

As soon as managers have assembled a crew of new associates, training begins. In addition to learning the culture, the brand-new associates will be learning to do many things they have never done before. Computers are used

for some of the training and the rest is done one-on-one or in very small groups, which again reinforces the expectations and attitudes of the company. In four to five weeks, the trainers will be gone and the new team must be prepared to operate the store on its own, without the guidance of the specialized store setup team.

During the setup, everyone works hard! The Store Planning managers do many things to make the process fun and enhance the learning curve. They hold contests, dress in funny costumes, and basically do whatever it takes to get the job done and build morale. They poke fun at themselves and everyone learns the “Wal-Mart cheer” (see page 36). At every store opening that I have ever attended, the associates have always been fired up and ready to go. I have even been to openings where one or more members of the management team has had to shave his head or some other silly thing on a dare because the associates achieved a certain challenging goal. Part of the Wal-Mart culture is having fun, and that begins before the store is even open.

It is a fact that you project what you are.

—Norman  Vincent Peale

Throughout the setup process, the in-store management and the Store Planning team live the culture every single day, and they expect the new associates to observe and follow them in all they do. We put a lot of faith in our managers and planning teams and count on them to spread the culture.

Your Culture Can Help You Fail

The NASA investigating committee that reviewed the Columbia space shuttle disaster reported the following:

In our view, the NASA organizational culture had as much to do with this accident as the foam. Organizational culture refers to the basic values, norms, beliefs, and practices that characterize the functioning of an institution. At the most basic level, organizational culture defines the assumptions that employees make as they carry out their work. It is a powerful force that can persist through reorganizations and the change of key personnel. It can be a positive or a negative force. (Columbia Investigation Accident Board Report. Government Published Report by NASA.)

NASA is a unique and legendary institution that still holds the distinct honor of being the only organization to put a man on the moon! So how could

a culture with such a history of success have contributed to such a disaster? Apparently, over years, a simple but understandable flaw had crept into the organization. NASA workers, as a rule, did not like to give their bosses bad news, which was viewed and treated as a negative.

Your culture can sow both the seeds of success and failure in your organization.

Will the Real Leaders Please Stand Up?

We allow our management teams to have such an important role in spreading culture because we believe that the key to a strong and meaningful culture is strong leadership.

From the start, we constantly asked our leadership team to make sure our people were aware of what our culture was all about and understood what our values were. There were some individuals, however, who didn’t stay with our company because they didn’t agree with our values; they just didn’t fit in.

The best thing for them was to leave and join companies where they were in alignment with those companies’ cultures. And frankly, I believe our emphasis on the Wal-Mart culture was probably a big favor to them. Why stay in a job you can’t enjoy?

Let me tell you that what we believed in, we believed in very strongly. We communicated our three basic beliefs and values frequently in meetings because the culture of our company was important enough to us that we wanted to weave our values into everything we did. I see so many companies that state their values only in the associate handbook and never mention them to their people again, either in writing or verbally. How can you expect people to live out the values of a company if they are never reminded about them? Some companies do place them in hallways or on bulletin boards but never talk about them in meetings or remind their people how essential they are in successfully running their divisions, departments, or the company. Be aware that such neglect will not get the job done for your organization. A culture must be sustained by constant regeneration, and the responsibility for the culture lies with the leaders.

Sustaining the Culture

John Gardner, whom I quoted at the beginning of the chapter, says: “Values always decay over time. Societies that keep their values alive do so not by escaping the process of decay, but by the powerful processes of regeneration.”

Three Essentials for Leadership

The key to a strong and meaningful culture is strong leadership. The task of developing and sustaining a company culture cannot be delegated—it is too important! While there are many things that leaders can do to emphasize the importance of the culture of a company, three things are essential.