SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Cost-Effective Business Practices
SUMMARY: Walmart's focus on cost-efficiency through modest offices, shared hotel rooms, and simple meals, contributes to its productivity edge over competitors.
KEYWORDS: cost control, frugality, productivity, business practices, Walmart culture
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

clear refutation of new-economy hype. At least half of Wal-Mart’s productivity edge stems

from managerial innovations that improve the efficiency of stores and have nothing to do

with IT [information technologies]; employees who have been cross-trained, for instance,

can function effectively in more than one department at a time. Better training of cashiers

and monitoring of utilization can increase productivity rates at checkout counters by 10 to 20

percent. Competitors began to adopt Wal-Mart’s innovations in earnest in the mid-1990s.

Wal-Mart still has a large productivity edge over its competitors and continues to raise the

2

bar.

There are numerous examples of the way we kept costs down on a day-to-

day basis. We chose not spend a lot of money on fancy offices and found that

they worked just as well as the finest offices in the country. Our home office

is very modest. In fact, a number of years ago, a stock analyst referred to our

offices as looking like an “early bus station.”A major portion of the office

space is converted warehouse space. It is an open office layout with small

modular offices outfitted with very plain but functional office furniture.

Executive offices are also very small, but functional. We never had to explain

to store associates who visited the home office why we had such elaborate

offices while we were asking them to keep costs down in the stores and clubs.

We spent our dollars where they counted most: in the stores and clubs and for

our customers.

People of mediocre ability sometimes achieve outstanding success because they don’t know when to

quit. Most men succeed because they are determined to.

—George Herbert Allen

Some representatives from McDonald’s corporate office showed me a

video many years ago. They had interspersed excerpts of speeches given by

Sam Walton and Ray Kroc, the legendary geniuses responsible for the

development of their fine companies. They did it to demonstrate how similar

Sam and Ray were in their approaches to business. Mr. Kroc said in this

speech to his people, “We should never forget how we did it when we were

poor.”When I heard that, it hit me how important it is to remember how we

got where we are and to never forget what it took. One of the important

reasons that Wal-Mart achieved what it did was by controlling costs.

Two to a Room

For newcomers to the Wal-Mart management team, perhaps the first

cultural hurdle is embracing our travel policy. When the business requires

travel, each associate shares a motel room with another Wal-Mart manager of

the same gender. Oh, and don’t plan on staying at the Four Seasons; it’s more

likely to be the La Quinta Inn or Motel 6. They have nice, clean rooms and

are moderately priced.

It is important to have good, healthy meals while you travel, but we didn’t

feel that extravagant meals in five-star restaurants or hotels was a good return

on investment. If you choose to order alcoholic beverages after work, you do

so at your expense. At the same time, you can’t have suppliers pay for your

meals; always go Dutch treat.

If you fly commercial airlines, you book your ticket in advance to get the

maximum discount. If an emergency comes up and you must book a ticket

less than seven days before departure, an executive vice president has to

approve the fare. No first-class seats, only coach. Frequent-flyer miles? They

stay with the company and help defray the cost of future business trips. All

those cost savings get plowed into price savings for our customers, and that’s

what makes it all worthwhile.

Two to a room, though, has a more important place in Wal-Mart culture

than just cutting costs. In many respects two to a room is a blending of

several important elements in our culture. The emphasis on costs is obvious.

Probably less obvious is the one-on-one communication opportunities it

provides. It was a very valuable way for associates, even officers, to share

ideas, talk about the business, and learn from each other. As Sam Dunn, the

vice president and CFO of Sam’s Club, recently shared with me:

Over the years, I have traveled and bunked with many other associates. Many of them were

really talented individuals and I gleaned from them business principles and cultural values as

we philosophized, shared ideas, and comparednotes before retiring for the night or tuning in

a good ball game from the understated comfort of our La Quinta double beds. The experience

of rooming with Rob Walton, our chairman of the board, at a midpriced hotel in Mexico City

in 1992 was a real eye-opener. We were there to meet with our joint venture partners, Cifra,

as we launched our first Sam’s Clubs in Mexico. I was a young finance director with just a

few years’ experience. Sam Walton had only recently passed away and his oldest son, Rob,

had taken on the chairmanship and the responsibility of turning Wal-Mart into a global

enterprise.Mexico was our first international effort. On this particular trip, several key

executives accompanied us, but I somehow ended up sharing a hotel room with Rob. It so

happened that Rob was training for his second Ironman Triathlon, and I was an avid runner.

We got up in the mornings at 5 AM and ran from our hotel to Chapultepec Park and back,

had breakfast together, and spent our days in meeting on a growth strategy for Mexico.

Imagine what it meant that the chairman of the board would hang out after business hours

and exchange ideas with a young, developing director!

The Power of a Symbol

“Two to a room” is a symbol of our cost consciousness. It is constant

reminder to our associates when they travel that they must watch their

expenses in everything they do.

I believe that symbols are a very important way of teaching principles.

Symbols can present a mental picture of an important idea or concept. The