SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Strategy and Merchandising
SUMMARY: This text discusses Wal-Mart's focus on merchandising, including a competition called VPI (Volume-Producing Item) that engages employees in identifying and promoting products.
KEYWORDS: retail strategy, merchandising, employee engagement, VPI contest, volume-producing item
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

—W. Michael Cox, chief economist, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, the New York Times, December 2003

While you can’t please everyone, and I’m sure we have stocked

merchandise in our stores that we weren’t fully aware of content-wise, we have consistently attempted to honor the morals and sensibilities of the everyday individuals who shop in our stores and clubs. With our emphasis on being a family store, we were particularly sensitive in our merchandising decision not to embarrass parents who bring their children into our stores while shopping.

We Are All Merchants First—The VPI Contest

Sam Walton was a great merchant—he had an uncanny sense of what people wanted to buy—and he wanted everyone in the company to be a great merchant also, from our buyers to our hourly associates. We talked about merchandise all the time. In many of our meetings, we showed all of our people the new and “hot” items and categories. I strongly believe that if you want your associates to have a real interest in your company, you have to expose them to your products. A common saying in our company was “We are merchants first.” That was even a motto in the technology department.

One of the most successful—and entertaining—programs we developed was called “VPI,” which stands for a Volume-Producing Item. Every department manager in every store selects an item that he or she believes can become a fast seller. They then feature the items in their stores, perhaps on an end cap or with special signage, and keep track of the sales of that item.

Meanwhile, the store managers and assistants also pick an item. So all throughout the store a friendly competition begins—to see whose item does the best. At the home office, all officers pick an item, and so do many of the home office departments.

Each month, at a Saturday morning meeting, management shares a recap with the entire group of the year-to-date standings of each individual. A great deal of good-natured competition and kidding goes on—who kids whom depends on who is in what place. At the end of the year, there is a big ceremony where the individual who has chosen the worst-performing item receives the FISH award. You have heard of different methods of valuing inventory—FIFO means First-In-First-Out; LIFO means Last-In-First-Out.

FISH is a Wal-Mart-only method used just for the VPI contest that means First-In-Still-Here. The dubious winner of that award is presented with a

large, smelly fish on a platter in front of about five thousand to six thousand associates at a year-beginning meeting.

It’s a fun exercise that feels a little like a Super Bowl party with friends who are rooting for opposite teams. But the whole point of VPI is to focus everyone’s attention on merchandise. Many things in any business can be a lot of fun but also contain a great lesson. VPI and the dreaded FISH award already belong to Wal-Mart. You need to create your own programs that combine entertainment and education. What we needed to accomplish was keeping the entire company in the loop concerning merchandise.

Customer Service—or Customer Satisfaction?

Despite the counsel of seminar speakers and textbook writers, customer service is not how you identify with your customers. If your company is to succeed, your emphasis must rather be on customer satisfaction. You can serve people without satisfying them, but it’s impossible to satisfy them without serving them. Satisfaction is the goal, and at Wal-Mart we determined to accept nothing short of that because we knew that when customers are satisfied over a long period of time, that’s when we create trust. And trust is the foundation of every relationship in life. I can’t emphasize that enough or repeat it enough times, and yet companies so easily take it for granted.

Exceed your customers’ expectations.If you do, they’ll come back over and over. Give them what they want, and a little more.

—Sam Walton

In every market research survey we ever commissioned, customers always rated Wal-Mart the company they most trusted. It is in the process of satisfying customers that you create trust, and ultimately trust leads to loyalty. In any business, customer loyalty can’t be bought—it can only be earned, and trust is the most important reason customers keep coming back. You can spend a lot of time and money trying to attract new customers, and yes, every business must do that, but it is even more important—and costs a lot less money—to keep the customers you already have.

Treat Customers As If They Were Guests in Your Home

A lot more than merchandise choices and pricing goes into providing a great shopping experience for your customers. First of all, a unique shopping experience for most people includes a friendly atmosphere. Sounds too simple, but think about what goes into motivating tens of thousands of associates in thousands of locations to be friendly to every single customer every day. Many of us struggle to pull off that feat in our own homes!

An analyst asked David Glass, during his tenure as president and CEO of Wal-Mart,“How do you run a company that has sales of over $100 billion?” David’s reply was, “I don’t have the slightest idea; we just do it one store at a time, one customer at a time, one day at a time.” While that sounds too simplistic, possibly even humorous, it’s a fantastic response. The point is that you must concentrate all of your energies on satisfying every single customer on every single visit he or she makes to your store every single day.

Our People Make the Difference

A friendly atmosphere begins with wonderfully friendly associates in our stores. They are the heart and soul of Wart-Mart’s customer-satisfaction program. They are the ones who meet and greet each customer each day.