SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Organizational Culture
SUMMARY: The text discusses how an organization's culture, particularly its leaders' attitudes, can determine its success and future direction.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, can-do attitude, leadership, Walmart
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Culture is the personality of an organization. Therefore, culture governs much of how people think, act, interact with others, and do their work. It is extremely powerful in determining the present and continuing success and the future direction of any organization. Culture can literally determine whether a company has a future.

A Culture of the Can-Do Attitude

Attitude is a huge component of culture, as well as the dynamic for creating and maintaining culture. You can gauge your attitude by asking,How do I view life? This is particularly illuminating when asked in the context of problems and challenges. Do you approach problems believing that you can handle them? How do you handle crisis situations? Do you see problems as roadblocks to success, or do you see them as opportunities to improve? Your answers to all of these questions will form a large part of your culture, and no one’s attitude is more important to an organizational culture than that of its leaders.

The attitudes leaders have affect the way they do their jobs and the way they treat their people, and they will ultimately impact the success of their organization. Your people are watching you every day, developing perceptions of themselves, of the organization, and of you as leader, all on the basis of your attitude. By your attitude and actions, you can inspire your people to think positively and confidently as they set out to solve problems, knowing they can do it.

The Wal-Mart organizational culture begins with a positive, can-do attitude, which welcomes our customers at the front door in the person of a greeter. But it doesn’t stop at being friendly at the front door. On a deeper

level, we—all of our associates—truly believe we can weather the challenges and storms of the corporate world, while maintaining a reverence for small- town values—and all the while having fun! Not surprisingly, the main Wal- Mart symbol in our advertising is a happy face; we are an optimistic and hardworking people.

I studied the lives of great men and famous women; and I found that the men and women who got to the top were those who did the jobs they had in hand, with everything they had of energy and enthusiasm  and hard work.

—Harry S. Truman

Beginning with Sam,Wal-Mart leaders have always stressed an attitude that we can get the job done, no matter how great the task. When faced with a problem or challenge, the question was always, “What are we going to do about it?” If a competitor was opening a store across the street, the response was never “Woe is us,” but always “How can we improve our own store?

How can we satisfy our customers better?”We viewed competition as healthy and good because it always made us better, and I believe we in turn made the competition better.

Sam’s Cultural Legacy

In the early morning hours of April 5, 1992, Sam Walton passed into eternity. The founder, the entrepreneur, the leader, the legend was gone. Surely, he would be missed, and Wal-Mart would never be the same again. Many companies never recover when the founder leaves. And we certainly knew that Sam Walton could never be replaced.

At the time, many business analysts predicted that Wal-Mart would become just another company at best and that our aura of success would certainly fade during the transition to a next generation of leadership. But the Wal-Mart people had another thought in mind: “Let’s show the world that not only did Sam Walton build a successful company—he built people, he built confidence, he built a belief system, and he built a culture that is enduring.”And so, as a fitting tribute to him,Wal-Mart has continued to be an amazing success.

The single most important factor in determining the climate of an organization is the top executive.

—Charles Galloway

When Sam died, we had 1,945 stores in two countries, with 371,000 associates, and revenues of $43.8 billion. As of January 31, 2004,Wal-Mart had 4,906 stores in eleven countries, with 1.5 million associates, and revenues of $256.3 billion—a 600 percent rate of growth. No one would be more pleased and proud than Sam.

There is no doubt in my mind that the culture of Wal-Mart was the force that enabled us to prevail in the face of all kinds of challenges, including the loss of our leader. And we have done so, rising to become the largest company in the world. Culture is incredibly important in the success of any organization. I’m not suggesting that it is a substitute for competence; but I am emphatically saying that culture gives ongoing life to that competence and allows it to achieve all that it can.

Values Are the Beginning of Culture

The Wal-Mart culture that I have been talking about begins with our values

—those things that you hold to be intrinsically good. Values identify what you stand for. In a sense, these values are the very foundation of your culture, those basic principles on which you are unwilling to compromise. All people

—even thieves—have values that they live by. It is extremely important that the values in any organization be clearly articulated for and understood by everyone in that organization.

The following core values have guided Wal-Mart associates over the years and are woven into the very fabric of our culture:

Integrity

Respect

Teamwork

Communication

Excellence

Accountability

Trust

We would never tolerate a breach in our integrity. From the beginning, it was wrong to lie, cheat, or steal. We did not ignore even small instances of failing to tell the truth. Leadership clearly spelled out disciplinary processes on integrity issues, including the possibility of termination.

Respect meant that all employees were to be respected no matter their positions, titles, genders, races, or religious beliefs. Your point of view was important even if you disagreed with your supervisor.