SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Logistics and Distribution
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart developed its own trucking operation to control delivery, increase efficiency, and reduce costs through just-in-time delivery and back-hauling.
KEYWORDS: just-in-time delivery, back-hauling, cross-docking, logistics, distribution
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Just-in-Time Delivery: Wal-Mart Trucking

In order to control delivery to our stores on a more timely basis, we developed our own trucking operation. Instead of remaining dependent on outside carriers, who were often great but who had no obligation to take care of Wal-Mart first, it seemed natural, as we grew, to hire our own truck drivers who would become a part of the Wal-Mart team. Our trucking associates work closely with the distribution associates to make sure that we serve our stores as effectively as is possible.

Computers are a vital link in dispatching trucks to the stores and add to our efficiency in moving freight. Onboard computers are used for communications with all drivers while they are on the road. Since we already have so many outbound trucks driving down the highway and delivering merchandise to our stores, it didn’t make sense to haul empty trailers back to the distribution centers on the return trip. Since we drive right by many of our suppliers’ manufacturing plants, we decided to have our truckers stop and pick up that merchandise and bring it back with them, which saved significant costs on inbound freight. The onboard computers made this possible. This experiment with “back-hauling” merchandise worked, and over the years we have refined it many times. Today, our own trucks deliver over 50 percent of our inbound merchandise to our distribution centers.

Again, all this may sound like the most routine of improvements. But we were the first retailer to develop a comprehensive back-haul operation. The program resulted in millions and millions of dollar savings and countless hours of savings in the movement of merchandise—all major strategic advantages.

The next step to attain even greater efficiency was to begin having our

trucks pick up merchandise from a supplier for several Wal-Mart distribution centers at the same time. In order to do that, we had to develop a method we called “cross-docking.”We tested the concept by building a long, narrow, extended arm on one of our new distribution centers and putting multiple doors on either side of the extension. A driver backed his truck into one of the doors on one side. As the merchandise was unloaded from that truck, some of it was moved to another truck on the opposite side bound for another distribution center. The merchandise was moved directly between trucks without any additional handling. We saved costs on shipping, handling, and many other subtle areas of our distribution system. Cross-docking became the pattern for all new distribution centers.

All of these examples reemphasize the fact that there is no limit to what we would do to improve everything in our operation.

The People Side of Trucking

Our truck drivers have always been very special associates. They are not only dedicated and hardworking, but they are also goodwill ambassadors for the company. They not only exert a positive influence on our own store associates, but they also frequently stop to help stranded motorists on the highways. I have received numerous letters from those motorists, sharing their stories and commending particular drivers for their help and pleasant manner.

One letter came from a woman who was traveling with four other women down an expressway late in the evening. She had to pull over to the shoulder of the road when a tire blew out. There they were on the side of the highway in a disabled car, in the dark. She related how fearful they were. After sitting there for a while, with many cars and trucks speeding past them, a truck finally pulled over. As soon as they saw that it was a Wal-Mart truck, they unlocked the doors and all ran and hugged the Wal-Mart driver who was then walking toward them. Her final sentence in the letter was: “Because he was with Wal-Mart we knew we could trust him.”Wow! What a fantastic image of Wal-Mart—we can be trusted. We can trust our drivers to make logistics more efficient and present the smiling face of Wal-Mart at the same time.

How Can We Keep Improving?

As evidenced by the Wal-Mart distribution system and trucking operation, opportunities abound within every organization to improve operations, improve service, and reduce costs. You just have to keep looking for them.

No area of a company need be stagnant—if you create an environment where your people accept that there is always a better way to do things and if you encourage and empower them to reach for higher levels of excellence. It’s interesting to realize that many of the opportunities to improve are right in front of our eyes. All we have to do is be sensitive to see them and then have the courage to do something about them. Our people have had to deal with change as a way of life at Wal-Mart, but they realize that we would never have accomplished what we have without constant improvement.

Success is the sum of small efforts, repeated day in and day out.

—Robert J. Collier

The Commitment of Leadership

One area that few people truly understand about logistics is the mind- boggling array of responsibilities the senior leaders in logistics have to stay on top of due to Wal-Mart’s tremendous growth. It was a balancing act to keep expenses under control while building up to twelve new one-million- square- foot distribution centers in different parts of the country and retrofitting a number of others in a single year, without letting service to the existing stores and clubs slip. And at the same time, the logistics leaders had to continue to drive innovation. No small combination of tasks!

Vision without a task is only a dream. A task without a vision is but drudgery. But vision with a task is a dream fulfilled.

—Willie Stone