SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Global Expansion and Localization
SUMMARY: Walmart is expanding globally by sourcing merchandise worldwide and tailoring store formats to local customer needs.
KEYWORDS: global sourcing, Neighborhood Market, customer focus, localization, vision
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

In addition, a global-sourcing team has been established to look for merchandise from all over the world and share that merchandise with all countries. With Wal-Mart’s global buying power, we are now able to provide merchandise for customers in all of Wal-Mart’s stores and clubs the world

over at low prices, helping to improve the standard of living in those countries—just as we endeavored to do first in small-town America and then throughout the United States.

Sam’s vision of improving people’s lives through low-cost, quality merchandise has now become a global one.

The Vision Grows—The Neighborhood Market Is Born

We have learned that not everyone likes to shop in a big Supercenter, whether it be the size of the store itself or the large parking lots. Our customers told us that if they wanted to buy only a few items or to stop for supper on their way home from work, it would be nice to run into a smaller store and get what they needed quickly—at Wal-Mart prices. If they had a sick child or needed a prescription filled in a hurry, it would be nice to have a store where they could drive to a window and get the prescription filled without waiting or getting out of their car.

This led to the development of the Neighborhood Market for the convenience of those customers with a need for speed. The Neighborhood Market is still in its infancy, but it certainly holds hope of being a wonderful complement to the Supercenter. There will always be a better way of doing business as customers’ needs change, and the Wal-Mart Way means that we will do all we can to meet needs and do things better—even if it means significant change. We will expand the vision once again.

The Vision of What’s Right in Front of You

Sometimes talk of vision doesn’t seem very practical. It can be intimidating for all of us to think in terms of what we must do today to create a successful tomorrow.

But I believe that Sam worked at—and mastered—a simple discipline that many leaders miss or would rather avoid. As important as seeing beyond the horizon and translating that big picture for your people (the macro side of vision), successful leaders are also excellent at seeing the little things happening right now, right in front of everybody, that others simply don’t see. Sam had incredible powers of observation, and he wanted everyone on

his Wal-Mart team to be the same way.

Leadership is the capacity to translate vision into reality.

—Warren G. Bennis

My personal tutoring on the subject from Sam came in August 1981. I hadn’t been with the company very long. We were opening three stores in Huntsville, Alabama. Two of the stores had been acquired from a chain called Big K. One was on the north side and the other on the far south side of the city. Not knowing we were going to acquire that company, we had already purchased land in the center of Huntsville and had broken ground on the third Wal-Mart store there. The plan had been under way for several years, and now we were on our way to the grand opening of all three stores on the same day.

Sam and I flew out there from Bentonville very early that morning. He went to the north store and I went to the south store. He cut the ribbon on the north and I cut the ribbon on the south. We met at the store in the center of town. We greeted customers, toured the store, and met with the associates— the store looked great and we wanted to shake hands and thank our associates for doing such an excellent job.

As with most of the grand openings, there were a lot of people there, and before long Sam and I began to help bag merchandise. We handed out candy to the kids and did anything we could think of to help the customers feel more comfortable with the long lines. Sam got on the PA repeatedly, asking, “Anybody need anything?” He would then continue, “We are so sorry that you are being held up today. Next week things will settle down, and the lines won’t be so long. Thank you for coming to our grand opening today and being patient with us.”

We never felt we were too good to do the little things. We wanted to take care of the people and to be an example to all associates that customers come first. The chairman of the board bagging goods—what a message that sent to the people and to me as well.

Before we left town, Sam wanted to stop at a nearby competitor that was well known in the area. All it took was a first glance and I was ready to leave.

Frankly, the competitor’s store was terrible—rows and rows of empty shelves, boxes strewn throughout the aisles, dirty floors, merchandise out of stock, and no one to wait on us. It was an absolutely horrible-looking store. But Sam wasn’t ready to leave.

He usually liked to browse and evaluate a store on his own, so he went his way and I went mine. When we finally met back at the parking lot, he said, “Don, what do you think?” (He was always asking, “What do you think?”He wanted to know our opinions—and I think he wanted us to really think!)

I said,“Sam, that was the worst store I have ever seen in my life.” I told him about the rows and rows of empty shelves, boxes in the aisles, dirty floors, merchandise out of stock, and no one to wait on customers that I had seen. “They won’t be tough competition at all,” I continued. I still believe to this day that it’s the worst store I have ever seen. But I wisely asked Sam, “What did you think?”

“Don, did you see the panty hose rack?” Sam asked.