SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Motivation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of treating all employees equally and making them feel valued to enhance their performance and engagement.
KEYWORDS: employee importance, employee motivation, self-esteem, ongoing feedback, leadership development
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

Everyone Equally Important

In Wal-Mart, we say that no one is more important than anyone else. The

Bartlett store showed me what that means. It means that we all have different

roles and titles, but everyone in this company is just as important as everyone

else. Furthermore, the best way to get people to perform is by treating them

right, by making them feel important. Giving people a sense of significance is

the best motivation, the best way to get people fired up about their jobs, their

company, and the contributions they can make. Find little ways of impacting

your people’s self-esteem, and get out of their way. Then watch as they get

the job done and do so with an attitude of pride to be a part of the team.

Again, this is no mere management “trick.” And it’s not as easy as it looks

—or wouldn’t everyone who wanted to be successful do it? The sad reality is

that the majority of people in the work world do not feel appreciated.

Five Questions That Must Be Answered—Before They Are Asked

Since we at Wal-Mart believed from the beginning that we didn’t have all

the answers, we were always seeking to learn from others. From time to time,

we asked a successful executive from a different industry to bring his or her

senior management team to Bentonville and meet with our executive

committee so that we could discuss a variety of leadership issues and learn

from each other. Just think what you could learn in a discussion with such

leaders as Lou Gerstner of IBM, Jack Welch of General Electric, John Pepper

of Procter & Gamble, Carlie Fiorina of Hewlett Packard, or Steve Balmer of

Microsoft, to name just a few of the executives we had in. King Solomon had

it right when he said: “As iron sharpens iron, so one man sharpens another”

(Prov. 27:17).

It is wonderful when the people believe in their leader; but it is more wonderful when the leader

believes in the people!

—John C. Maxwell

On one occasion, we met with Fred Smith, founder and CEO of Federal

Express. I’ll never forget one thing he shared with us. He commented that

every person, at one time or another in his or her career, will have five

questions that he asks himself or herself. He said that at Federal Express they

feel it is important to answer those questions for everyone before the

questions are even asked. His list was:

1. What is expected of me?

2. How am I doing?

3. How can I get ahead?

4. Where do I get justice?

5. Is what I am doing important?

What is expected of me? In other words, what am I supposed to be doing?

What is my job? On what basis will you measure me?

How am I doing? This does not refer to my year-end evaluation, but rather

how am I doing with what you asked me to do yesterday or last week or on

that project I turned in to you several weeks ago. Am I doing what you asked

me to do? Are the results what you wanted? Is it good? Letting your

associates know how they are doing is giving ongoing, continual feedback.

People want to know where they stand, if you are pleased with their

performance. No associates want to be surprised when their year-end

evaluations do come around. If they are surprised, then the leader has not

done his or her job throughout the year. And sadly, those individuals have not

had a chance to improve their performance during the year, and everyone

suffers—including the company.

How can I get ahead? How can I be promoted? How can I take on more

responsibility? How can I grow? How can I be challenged further? It is true

that some people don’t want more responsibility. They don’t want another

job—they are happy just where they are—but they still want to get ahead. We

have some people who are cashiers, for example, and that is all they want to

be, but they still want to know how they can become a senior cashier, or how

they can do their job better, or how can they make more money—all

legitimate ways of getting ahead. They don’t want to run the company or the

store or the department, but they do want to know how they can make

progress, even if only for their own satisfaction.

Where can I get justice? Where do I go when things are going badly, when

I think I am being treated poorly, when I think something has been done

unfairly? This is an incredibly important question—and one that most

companies do not even address. I think it is so important that I address it in

detail in a section to come entitled “The Door Is Always Open.”

Is what I am doing important? All associates want to know that they are

important and that they are doing something significant. They want to know

that they are contributing to something bigger than themselves. They want to

know that they have more than a job, that they have a place on a winning

team, and that their efforts are meaningful. One way that happens at Wal-

Mart is with the amount of attention given to the customer-as-boss concept.

Every associate knows how significant Wal-Mart feels it is to enhance the

lifestyle of everyday people through low prices—and great customer service.

All workers ask those five questions, and the answers are vital to how they

function on the job. You and I have asked all five of those questions, too,

sometimes several at the same time. They form the basic framework for the

dignity of a worker, and it seems to me that if you can preanswer these

questions for your people on a continuing basis, you can then motivate them

to perform in an above-average way.

Little Things Mean a Lot