SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Organizational Growth and Leadership
SUMMARY: The text discusses how Wal-Mart's founder, Sam Walton, built a successful retail company by valuing people, hard work, and flexibility, and how the company's vision inspired the growth of its associates.
KEYWORDS: Sam Walton, Wal-Mart culture, employee growth, organizational leadership, customer focus
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

He led us to become the most successful retail company in the United States—and the world. In the end, he did receive honor and glory from the world over, including several U.S. presidents; he did make friends across the land and was recognized by sight and name probably as much as any single man in the United States. So, you see, the dream—to do good for others— resulted in what others often dream about.

If Sam Were Here Today

Now Sam’s gone and things have changed, and they will never be the same again. But things changed while he was here, and more than anyone, he was the agent for those changes. Were he here today, his encouragement would be, “Hold fast to what is important, but change what needs to be changed.

Change is inevitable—so let’s be a positive force in the midst of it.” In the words of James Champy, author of Reengineering Management:

It is not enough for a leader to have a vision. A leader needs to attract followers, men and women who can commit themselves to the new ideal and necessity of customer focus. But if  the mobilization process is to succeed those followers must become leaders too, finding their own sense of purpose in the shared challenge and spreading the call and vision of change.

Sam accomplished great things—he created the Wal-Mart Way—by valuing people and hard work. He made serving people his number-one priority. He asked for help when he needed it. He allowed his coworkers to share in the dream with him, and he told them how valuable they were and how much he appreciated them. He worked hard. He wasn’t afraid to change in order to stay ahead of the game.

Growing Dreams by Growing People

Because of Sam’s flexibility and tenaciousness, his dream of owning his own store succeeded and grew. And along the way, thousands upon thousands of individuals grew right along with that dream. Here are two remarkable stories of two remarkable Wal-Mart associates who captured the company’s vision.

Theresa Barrera

Theresa started working for the Sam’s Club in Corpus Christi, Texas, as a part-time cashier in November 1985. Theresa’s mother passed away after Theresa had been working at Sam’s for only six weeks. She was impressed and touched that two of the club’s management team came to the funeral.

In the fall of 1986, she was awarded a Wal-Mart scholarship that enabled her to finish her college education. At approximately the same time, she

began working full time in another hourly job.

In January 1990, she was promoted to a management position in the home office as an internal auditor and moved to Bentonville. In 1993, she was promoted to a position as special projects coordinator in the international division. Her next job in that division was as a buyer.

In 1995, she moved into the Wal-Mart stores division as a buyer and was promoted to divisional merchandise manager in 1999. In 2001, she was promoted to vice president of Wal-Mart and today is responsible for more than $5.2 billion of merchandise purchases for Wal-Mart stores.

Theresa shares:

I personally feel I have been a very lucky woman. Nineteen years ago I started working at Sam’s as a part-time cashier. Never in my wildest dreams did I believe I could achieve what I have. I will tell you I was given a chance. Wal-Mart has challenged me and I worked really hard to prove myself. Not only do I have an amazing career, I have two amazing daughters. There is nothing more satisfying than living the life you want. Wal-Mart encourages all of us  to have mentors and “mentees.” I feel this is so important so we continue to grow and   develop new young talent—just as someone did with me.

Kevin Turner

In 1986, Kevin joined Wal-Mart as a temporary cashier in a Wal-Mart store in Ada, Oklahoma. He was a student at East Central University and was working his way through college. When he graduated, he decided to become a full-time Wal-Mart associate and was assigned to a position as a company auditor.

After several years in that role, he was promoted to an entry-level job in the technology department. He continued to be promoted into increasingly higher level positions in technology and eventually rose to senior vice president and CIO of Wal-Mart in 1999.

Kevin was always involved in using technology to serve the needs of the business with a keen eye on the needs of the customer. He always demonstrated a great sense of urgency in all that he did. In 2002, Kevin was promoted to president and CEO of Sam’s Clubs, a $30 billion division of Wal-Mart.

Kevin comments:

Early on I heard our leaders use the term “cross pollination” and describe how important it was and how big a part it had played in the formulation of Wal-Mart. After my third job in as many divisions within the company, I came to realize how blessed I had been to learn from   the variety of experiences and people I had been exposed to, each contributing to my career and preparing me for the next job. Not only does being “cross pollinated” broaden your    point of view but it also helps us become a better company by having people who can   leverage the entire enterprise in the best way possible.

I believe that leadership skills are transferable and can be taught. Theresa and Kevin are great examples of this. There are literally thousands of stories that are similar to these, and they continue to happen every day in Wal-Mart.

A Special Note to Wal-Mart Associates from Don