SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Inclusive Leadership
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of treating all employees with respect and dignity, regardless of their role or title, as a key to motivation and success.
KEYWORDS: inclusive leadership, employee respect, employee motivation, servant leadership, organizational culture
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

No man will make a great leader who wants to do it all himself, or to get all the credit for doing it.

—Andrew Carnegie

Sam set some dynamics in motion that were a joy to experience. Whenever I left a store, I had gained so much knowledge and encouragement from the associates, it was my humble privilege to thank them for what they were doing and encourage them. Oftentimes, I wasn’t sure who had encouraged whom the most!

As we sat there that day in Bartlett, Tennessee, I told a group of hourly department managers about my experience in the Infants section and other things I had seen in their store. I told them how proud I was of how they were operating their store. One of the department managers asked me if I had seen their rest rooms.

“No—why?” I asked back. “Should I have seen your rest rooms?”

She said that they had the cleanest rest rooms in any Wal-Mart in the country. I asked her why and she told me that it was because of Gracie, the cleaning lady. She said that she took the job seriously and did fantastic work. I asked someone to go out to the sales floor and have her join us.

After a few minutes, a lady walked into the room, and immediately all of the other associates and department managers stood and gave her a standing ovation. She could barely look up because she was so embarrassed. But her shy smile showed that she was pleased. What a wonderful way of doing business—treating people with respect and dignity and honoring their hard work. The associates working in Bartlett that day taught me a wonderful lesson about respecting all of the associates, no matter what their titles or jobs might be.

Everyone Equally Important

In Wal-Mart, we say that no one is more important than anyone else. The Bartlett store showed me what that means. It means that we all have different roles and titles, but everyone in this company is just as important as everyone else. Furthermore, the best way to get people to perform is by treating them right, by making them feel important. Giving people a sense of significance is the best motivation, the best way to get people fired up about their jobs, their company, and the contributions they can make. Find little ways of impacting your people’s self-esteem, and get out of their way. Then watch as they get the job done and do so with an attitude of pride to be a part of the team.

Again, this is no mere management “trick.” And it’s not as easy as it looks

—or wouldn’t everyone who wanted to be successful do it? The sad reality is that the majority of people in the work world do not feel appreciated.

Five Questions That Must Be Answered—Before They Are Asked

Since we at Wal-Mart believed from the beginning that we didn’t have all the answers, we were always seeking to learn from others. From time to time, we asked a successful executive from a different industry to bring his or her senior management team to Bentonville and meet with our executive committee so that we could discuss a variety of leadership issues and learn

from each other. Just think what you could learn in a discussion with such leaders as Lou Gerstner of IBM, Jack Welch of General Electric, John Pepper of Procter & Gamble, Carlie Fiorina of Hewlett Packard, or Steve Balmer of Microsoft, to name just a few of the executives we had in. King Solomon had it right when he said: “As iron sharpens iron, so one man sharpens another” (Prov. 27:17).

It is wonderful when the people believe in their leader; but it is more wonderful when the leader believes in the people!

—John C. Maxwell

On one occasion, we met with Fred Smith, founder and CEO of Federal Express. I’ll never forget one thing he shared with us. He commented that every person, at one time or another in his or her career, will have five questions that he asks himself or herself. He said that at Federal Express they feel it is important to answer those questions for everyone before the questions are even asked. His list was:

What is expected of me?

How am I doing?

How can I get ahead?

Where do I get justice?

Is what I am doing important?

What is expected of me? In other words, what am I supposed to be doing?

What is my job? On what basis will you measure me?

How am I doing? This does not refer to my year-end evaluation, but rather how am I doing with what you asked me to do yesterday or last week or on that project I turned in to you several weeks ago. Am I doing what you asked me to do? Are the results what you wanted? Is it good? Letting your associates know how they are doing is giving ongoing, continual feedback.

People want to know where they stand, if you are pleased with their performance. No associates want to be surprised when their year-end

evaluations do come around. If they are surprised, then the leader has not done his or her job throughout the year. And sadly, those individuals have not had a chance to improve their performance during the year, and everyone suffers—including the company.