SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Motivation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of employee engagement and how Walmart has achieved higher levels of engagement compared to the national average.
KEYWORDS: employee engagement, employee motivation, Walmart culture, leadership responsibility, employee survey
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Our Grassroots Meeting system was just one of the many ways we tried to communicate to our associates that we would do our best to take better care of them if they would do their best to communicate with management.

Commitment or Compliance?

When workers are given their basic human dignity, they achieve all kinds of great things for the company. But how do you measure a worker’s ability to make an impact on a company?

The Gallup organization took a poll that surveyed thousands of workers in the United States. The pollsters asked a number of questions about how the people felt about their jobs and the companies they worked for. They found interesting results relating to the extent to which workers felt engaged or disengaged with their company:

29 percent were determined to be engaged—connected to company; work with passion.

54 percent were not engaged—no energy or passion; going through motions.

17 percent were disengaged—actively undermined accomplishments of

those engaged.

(Reported in “Getting Personal in the Workplace” by Steve Crabtree, Gallup Management Journal, electronic edition, dated June 2004, pp. 1–2.)

If this survey is anywhere near indicative of how people really feel, it’s very disappointing. If this same survey was conducted with Wal-Mart associates, I can’t say exactly what the numbers would look like, but I am convinced of several things. The number of associates who feel engaged in the company is a lot more than 29 percent. I also know that the number of associates who are not engaged or disengaged would be a lot less than 54 percent and 17 percent, respectively. And I’m sure that any company, no matter how good it might be, will have some associates that will simply never engage.

Just think: if the leadership of an organization could find a way to get most, if not all of its people motivated, excited, and engaged, what a positive impact that could have on the business. I believe that Wal-Mart and a number of other good companies have demonstrated that it can be done. But it won’t happen just because you want it to. Like everything else that is worthwhile, you have to work at it.

How Do Employees Become Engaged?

The point of this chapter so far has been to say that the way to engage the people in your organization begins with treating them right: giving them respect and dignity, genuinely caring about them as individuals, and telling them that they are important to the success of your organization (because they are). I guarantee that by doing these things, you can improve the operation of your business many times over—you can raise the 29 percent that are engaged in an average company to 50 percent or higher and cut the not-engaged and the disengaged numbers in half.

But how does that kind of atmosphere get started? First of all, it is very important to understand that it is the responsibility of leadership to set the tone in an organization and provide the environment for success; it’s not the responsibility of your people to become more engaged. You certainly can’t

tell people to become more engaged and expect that they will.

What we have found to be most effective at Wal-Mart is to change the attitude and approach of leadership, not initiate some big, official program. Begin by embracing the fact that your people really are important and can make a difference in your business if given the chance. If that is true, then the question is: How can we make that happen—how do we give our people the opportunity to improve our business?

I remember visiting a store in south Georgia years ago. I walked through the store and visited with all the people, as I normally did. After I had finished covering my observations with the management team about how the store might improve, an assistant manager pulled me aside and said, “Thank you for telling us how to improve our store rather then telling us all of the things we’re doing wrong.”

They didn’t need me to come in and tell them they were out of stock in a category of merchandise—they already knew that. What they needed was encouragement and practical advice on how they could correct problems and improve their operation. When I left that store in Georgia, I felt confident they would be motivated to correct the problems—not depressed because they had been chewed out.

Profit Sharing and Other Incentives

Sam and Bud weren’t content with just using words to tell associates how much they were valued—they wanted to show all of the associates how much Sam and Bud appreciated their many accomplishments. They decided that the best way would be to share the company profits with them. In 1971, the Wal- Mart profit-sharing plan came into existence. All associates who had been with the company a year or longer had a percent of their annual pay put into profit-sharing accounts for them. The percent was the same no matter what positions they held. The program remains to this day and has been marvelous for the associates.

Shortly after developing the profit-sharing program, Sam and Bud decided that it would be great if they could make it possible for all associates to own Wal-Mart stock in order to grow with the company—with no hassles, no fees,

and true to Sam’s vision, at a discount price. So they put in place a program for all associates to buy Wal-Mart stock through a payroll-deduction plan.

They could choose to set aside any amount of money and have it invested in company stock at a discounted price and not have to pay any brokerage fees. Over the years, thousands and thousands of associates—consistently more than 50 percent of all Wal-Mart associates—have taken advantage of this plan as a way to share in the growth of the company.