SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Corporate Culture and Values
SUMMARY: The text outlines the Wal-Mart Way principles, which focus on creating a shared vision, treating employees with respect, and committing to continuous growth and improvement.
KEYWORDS: corporate culture, organizational values, growth mindset, employee respect, success principles
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

APPENDIX A

The Wal-Mart Way Principles

Wal-Mart Way Principle # 1

Every successful venture begins with a dream that requires determination,

passion, and the willingness to grow if it is to be fulfilled.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #2

You must have a vision that allows you to see a bigger, better, stronger you in

the future—while never taking your eyes off of who you are and what you

are doing today.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #3

To build a great company, you must create a culture where everyone shares

the same values, purposes, and expectations of success.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #4

True success is achieved in direct proportion to the degree that an

organization treats its people with respect and dignity—and believes in them

enough to help them grow.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #5

You will succeed when you make a commitment to help your customers

succeed first.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #6

Achieving excellence becomes a reality when you set high expectations,

humbly face and correct your mistakes, stay optimistic, and avoid the

quicksand of complacency.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #7

Your success is in direct proportion to your ability to plan, monitor, and

ultimately execute all phases of your business.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #8

To build a great company, you must actively and continually seek out,

evaluate, and invest in the tools that best serve the people and aims of your

organization.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #9

The most basic operations in your company represent tremendous

opportunities for improvement, growth, and savings. Don’t overlook the

obvious.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #10

When you create win-win relationships with your business partnerships based

on trust and open communications, you maximize your potential for growth.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #11

The ongoing success of your organization is in direct proportion to your

ongoing commitment to grow.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #12

When you cultivate a spirit of charitable giving and civic involvement within

your organization, you exponentially increase your tangible and intangible

returns—including the personal character of your team.

APPENDIX B

Perspective on External Criticism of Wal-Mart

As Wal-Mart has grown to become the largest company in the world, so

too has the public focus on the company. Today,Wal-Mart is very likely the

most visible and scrutinized company in the United States. Because of the

company’s size and success, it has become a lightning rod for some of the

most challenging issues we face as a society and country. Wal-Mart is

featured prominently in the public debates on health care, world trade,

revitalization of downtown areas, and even the free enterprise system itself.

Moreover, now the company finds itself in a position where it is judged on a

standard of perfection. Every mistake has the potential to appear on the

evening news or on the front page of the local newspaper. To put it another

way, with more than one million people working for Wal-Mart in the U.S.,

the company has become larger than many big cities. Can you imagine a city

of one million people, for example, that is held to a standard of zero mistakes

by its citizens?

In addition, like any successful company or organization, the company

faces challenges from a host of detractors who want to slow or completely

stop the company’s growth. In recent years, many of these have chosen to

attack Wal-Mart’s reputation rather than trying to compete with the company

at the retail level. These reputation attacks can take the form of lawsuits,

negative coverage in the news media, laws and regulations written

specifically with Wal-Mart in mind, and even organizing activity by labor

unions in the company’s stores.

All this said, Wal-Mart leaders are the first to say the company is not

perfect and needs to improve. This commitment to “continual improvement”

was a personal priority for Sam Walton, and it remains an important part of

the Wal-Mart culture today. Ironically, those who attack Wal-Mart will

ultimately play a key role in making it a better company, and even a more

successful retailer.

Recommended Reading

GOOD TO GREAT

Why Some Companies Make the Leap . . . and Others Don't

by Jim Collins

SOUL OF THE FIRM

by C. William Pollard

LEADERSHIP BY THE BOOK

Tools to Transform Your Workplace

by Ken Blanchard, Bill Hybels, and Phil Hodges

PRIMAL LEADERSHIP

Realizing the Power of Emotional Intelligence

by Daniel Goleman, Annie McKee, and Richard E. Boyatzis

LEADING CHANGE

by John P. Kotter

IF ARISTOTLE RAN GENERAL MOTORS

The New Soul of Business

by Thomas V. Morris

CREDIBILITY

How Leaders Gain and Lose It,Why People Demand It

by James M. Kouzes and Barry Z. Posner

THE LEADERSHIP ENGINE

How Winning Companies Build Leaders at Every Level

by Noel M. Tichy with Eli Cohen

THE FIVE TEMPTATIONS OF A CEO

A Leadership Fable

by Patrick M. Lencioni

AUTHENTIC LEADERSHIP

Rediscovering the Secrets to Creating Lasting Value

by Bill George

Notes

Chapter 7

1. Constance L. Hays, “The Wal-Mart Way Becomes Topic A in Business Schools,” New York

Times, July 27, 2003.

2. Bradford C. Johnson, “Retail: The Wal-Mart Effect,” The McKinsey Quarterly, 2002, No. 1.

Chapter 8

1. Johnson, “Retail: The Wal-Mart Effect.”

2. Steve Berry, James Burrows Moffat, professors of economics, “Wal-Mart Is No Enemy—It’s a

Boon for the City’s Shoppers,” Yale University’s Daily News, January 16, 2003.

Chapter 11

1. Richard Ernsberger Jr., “Wal-Mart World,” Newsweek,May 20, 2002.

Conclusion

1. Jim Collins, “Bigger, Better, Faster,” Fast Company, June 2003, page 74.

Founded in 1998, the Soderquist Center for Leadership and Ethics is a

not-for-profit organization located in Siloam Springs, Arkansas, and affiliated

with John Brown University. The Center is named for Don Soderquist, who

firmly believes that business ethics are not a luxury, but an essential element

in creating a high-performance organization; he also understands that the

responsibility for creating an ethical organization belongs to its senior

leaders. The Center, which exists to equip men and women with the

transforming power of ethical leadership, hosts retreats at its retreat center

located on the shores of beautiful Beaver Lake in Northwest Arkansas for