SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Motivation and Recognition
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of simple leadership practices, such as acknowledging employees' efforts and making them feel valued, in positively impacting employee motivation and organizational performance.
KEYWORDS: employee recognition, leadership principles, motivation, Wal-Mart, A.L. Williams
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

—Becky Brodin

Several years ago, Peter Drucker, a prolific author and incredibly insightful

thinker on the subject of leadership, was asked what he thought were the

three most important things he had learned about leadership over the years.

His response was:

1. Keep it simple; don’t overcomplicate anything you do.

2. The two most important phrases are “please” and “thank you.”

3. Never ask who is right, but always ask what is right.

I wish every supervisor, every manager, every officer, every CEO, every

leader in any organization could understand those three simple points. They

don’t sound that sophisticated or significant, but if they were understood and

practiced, they would have a profound impact on any organization. What

could be more important than motivating your people through attention and

respect? How do you think those you work with would feel if they truly knew

you felt they were important?

One Saturday morning in a local Wal-Mart store, I stood behind a

department manager who was talking to her husband, son, and daughter. She

said to them, “See this counter that Mommy set up? The store manager came

by and said I did a great job.”

She was already proud of the job she had done, but the fact that her store

manager felt that she had done a good job and took the time to tell her was

powerful. I believe those simple words of recognition and appreciation had a

very positive and significant impact on her feelings toward the manager, the

company, the customers—and herself! People internalize recognition and

encouragement from others, and these become a self-renewing source of

motivation to continue growing and achieving—and buying into a company’s

vision and doing a good job every day.

Recognizing someone’s efforts may not seem like a big deal in the overall

scheme of corporate strategies, but it was a big deal to that department

manager and her family. As Ken Blanchard once said,“Who needs

encouragement? Anybody who is breathing!” I totally agree with that on a

personal and a professional level.

Everybody Wants to Be Somebody

Author A. L. Williams, an insurance executive with keen insight into

human nature, wrote the classic book Pushing People Up, which I have kept

on my desk as a reminder of a number of important people principles. The

first chapter is titled “Everybody Wants to Be Somebody.” The chapter title

alone was worth the price of the book—it stopped me in my tracks and made

me think differently about the world around me: everybody really does want

to be recognized as an individual who can contribute something worthwhile.

No matter what your job is or whom you work for, it is very important to feel

important. If you feel that management genuinely cares about you and

recognizes your worth, then you will be much more dedicated to that

company.

Lest you think this is a simple pop-psychology technique to use to get

others to do what you want, think about what it means for you to recognize

fellow workers. It means:

1. You are paying attention to your environment—a common characteristic

and discipline of ambitious, growing individuals.

2. You are self-assured of your own contributions and aren’t caught up in

petty competitions and proving you’re smarter than everyone else.

3. You stand out because you are optimistic and positive—not everyone

chooses to find the positives in individuals or situations.

4. You have the confidence to express yourself—and communication is the

lifeblood of all good relationships and organizations.

Bottom line, recognizing others is both a matter of the heart and a

discipline. I can still remember countless times when, at the end of a long and

exhausting day, Sam was sitting across the break room table from an hourly

associate, sipping a soft drink with him or her and discussing the morale of

the store—or just as likely, something happening in that person’s family or

personal life. The CEO of a multibillion-dollar company doesn’t have to do

that. Sam wanted to. He was sincerely interested in people.

And Sam instilled that same regard for others throughout the entire Wal-

Mart organization.

If You Want to Go Far . . . Go Together

When people feel good about themselves, then they can feel good about

others. When people feel good about each other, they can work together as a

team, and when people work as a team, they are able to accomplish

exceedingly more than anyone could hope to expect. As the old African

proverb reminds us: “If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far,

go together.”

Use power to help people. For we are given power not to advance our own purposes, nor to

make a great show in the world, nor a name. There is but one just use of power, and it is to

serve people.

—George H. W. Bush

A key part of the Wal-Mart success story is the way our associates “go

together,” the way they work together and support one another. This

camaraderie takes place in the stores, the clubs, the distribution centers, and

the home office. All of our associates—from the department manager at a

local Wal-Mart, to the order stockers, to our truck drivers, to our senior

leadership members—all are vital parts of the Wal-Mart team.

I’m not saying that we’re perfect; we’re not. We are human beings just like

people in other companies, but there is something very special about Wal-

Mart associates the world over. The biggest part of that special something

begins with the way management treats people. Hundreds and hundreds of

times I have had associates say to me that they have never experienced the

relationship they have with Wal-Mart management anywhere they previously

worked. Management is accessible to them, talks to them, listens to them, and

even works beside them. Wal-Mart associates are proud to be a part of the

“family” and are loyal to the company.