SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Global Expansion Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses Walmart's expansion into Mexico and other countries, overcoming cultural differences and adapting to customer preferences.
KEYWORDS: global expansion, international markets, customer preferences, pricing strategy, cultural adaptation
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

disappointments along the way. For example, the leaders in Cifra did not

believe that everyday low prices would work in Mexico. They were

convinced that their customers were too accustomed to special pricing that

showed up in the regular circulars. They did not want to depart from their

high/low pricing strategy. They found it difficult to accept that a marketing

strategy that worked in the U.S. would work equally as well with the

customers in Mexico. In their minds, it would be costly to change the overall

pricing strategy with too much risk involved. Several years later, when the

leadership embraced this change, it had a dramatic impact on sales. To this

day they continue to see growing sales.

But more importantly, we persevered. I believe we persevered because we

were still captivated by a vision: improving the standard of living for

everyday people through great products at the lowest prices. We learned the

unique preferences of our customers in other countries and worked hard to

serve those customers by blending the Wal-Mart culture with the culture of

each separate country. While we may do many things differently country by

country, we will not sacrifice our beliefs or values. Customers and associates

all across the world want to be treated with respect and dignity, to be a part of

something that is bigger than themselves.

In the succeeding years we became a global company by venturing into

other countries. Today the International Division has continued to grow with

excellent results. We have developed an amazing team of leaders from all

over the world who have truly embraced the Wal-Mart Way and who are

contributing significantly to the sales and profitability of the company. They

are continually sharing the best practices and merchandising ideas between

countries, which in turn makes each one better. For example, the chain in

Great Britain taught us to effectively display more food products, and we

have worked with them to develop a brand name for clothes that they have

used for years in Great Britain—George. Since its introduction into the U.S.

market, sales have been excellent.

In addition, a global-sourcing team has been established to look for

merchandise from all over the world and share that merchandise with all

countries. With Wal-Mart’s global buying power, we are now able to provide

merchandise for customers in all of Wal-Mart’s stores and clubs the world

over at low prices, helping to improve the standard of living in those

countries—just as we endeavored to do first in small-town America and then

throughout the United States.

Sam’s vision of improving people’s lives through low-cost, quality

merchandise has now become a global one.

The Vision Grows—The Neighborhood Market Is Born

We have learned that not everyone likes to shop in a big Supercenter,

whether it be the size of the store itself or the large parking lots. Our

customers told us that if they wanted to buy only a few items or to stop for

supper on their way home from work, it would be nice to run into a smaller

store and get what they needed quickly—at Wal-Mart prices. If they had a

sick child or needed a prescription filled in a hurry, it would be nice to have a

store where they could drive to a window and get the prescription filled

without waiting or getting out of their car.

This led to the development of the Neighborhood Market for the

convenience of those customers with a need for speed. The Neighborhood

Market is still in its infancy, but it certainly holds hope of being a wonderful

complement to the Supercenter. There will always be a better way of doing

business as customers’ needs change, and the Wal-Mart Way means that we

will do all we can to meet needs and do things better—even if it means

significant change. We will expand the vision once again.

The Vision of What’s Right in Front of You

Sometimes talk of vision doesn’t seem very practical. It can be

intimidating for all of us to think in terms of what we must do today to create

a successful tomorrow.

But I believe that Sam worked at—and mastered—a simple discipline that

many leaders miss or would rather avoid. As important as seeing beyond the

horizon and translating that big picture for your people (the macro side of

vision), successful leaders are also excellent at seeing the little things

happening right now, right in front of everybody, that others simply don’t

see. Sam had incredible powers of observation, and he wanted everyone on

his Wal-Mart team to be the same way.

Leadership is the capacity to translate vision into reality.

—Warren G. Bennis

My personal tutoring on the subject from Sam came in August 1981. I

hadn’t been with the company very long. We were opening three stores in

Huntsville, Alabama. Two of the stores had been acquired from a chain called

Big K. One was on the north side and the other on the far south side of the

city. Not knowing we were going to acquire that company, we had already

purchased land in the center of Huntsville and had broken ground on the third

Wal-Mart store there. The plan had been under way for several years, and

now we were on our way to the grand opening of all three stores on the same

day.

Sam and I flew out there from Bentonville very early that morning. He

went to the north store and I went to the south store. He cut the ribbon on the

north and I cut the ribbon on the south. We met at the store in the center of

town. We greeted customers, toured the store, and met with the associates—

the store looked great and we wanted to shake hands and thank our associates

for doing such an excellent job.

As with most of the grand openings, there were a lot of people there, and