SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Expansion Strategy
SUMMARY: Sam Walton's ambitious plan to build larger discount stores in small towns, despite skepticism from his supplier, led to the founding of Wal-Mart.
KEYWORDS: retail expansion, small-town strategy, supplier relations, Wal-Mart founding
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

“Mr. Ben Franklin Company,” Sam said, “please help me build larger

stores in my small towns. I know it’s not been done before, but my people are

asking for more assortments and lower prices. I’ve got an idea for them. Will

you work with me and franchise these larger stores? Will you sell the

merchandise to me at a lower price since I need to reduce the prices to my

customers? You’ll do okay, too, because I’ll be buying a lot more

merchandise from you.”

“It will never work,” they said. “We can’t do that. There are not enough

people out there for discount stores. You will never be able to generate

enough business in those small towns. Larger stores work in the larger cities.

Smaller stores for smaller towns. Everyone knows that. Be content. You’re

already the biggest and best at what you do. And by the way, we can’t sell the

merchandise to you for a lower price than we sell it to everyone else. The risk

in this plan is too great for everyone—including you.”

“I’ll gladly be your guinea pig,” Sam argued. “Let me take the risk. This is

something I’ve got to try.”

“Sorry, but no,” was their final answer. “You’ve done a great job, Sam

Walton, and we respect what you have accomplished, but we’re not going in

that direction.”

“Then we’ll have to do it on our own,” he said to Bud. He knew change

was necessary to follow his dream—a simple dream that had stayed true to its

ideals—and he wasn’t going to give up now.

Wal-Mart was born.

The Dream Continues to Grow

Not giving up meant that Sam had to acquire computers, warehouses,

trucks, and many other things that were all brand-new to his business. It also

meant the birth of Wal-Mart discount stores. It was a big risk, it took a lot of

courage and openness to change, but he and his associates made it work.

Little by little, the dream would grow one successful Wal-Mart at a time.

In early 1971, Sam wrote to all Wal-Mart associates and said:

If any generalization is true of retailing in the 70s, it would have to be that our business is

one of constant change. Increasingly, this is just as true in our small trade centers as well as

in the larger metropolitan areas. Consequently, it is most important that all of us in Wal-

Mart be alert and curious to new trends and developments in retailing. It is imperative that

each new process be studied and analyzed thoroughly to see if we can adopt the idea for Wal-

Mart, but the total key for our stores is that we retain our philosophy of being not only the

dominant store in our areas, but more importantly, that we do the best job of anybody around

in rendering effective, friendly customer service.

Sam continued to be involved in the stores, with his people, in his

community, and in his church. He remained a common man, always giving

credit to others for everything he achieved. But he refused to be complacent

—he was always challenging, always thinking, always experimenting, always

raising the bar, and always striving for the impossible.

Our goals and achievements for 1971 have all been met and exceeded as of this date. Most

people and other companies would have said that what we have done is impossible. I’m

convinced that nothing is impossible for this Wal-Mart team and that we’ll again meet these

goals and challenges as projected for 1972. This can be done. Again, let me thank each of

you for what you have done to make 1971 our biggest and best year yet. I’m confident 1972

will be even better. Together we can do it.

He continued to be the leader and servant, the student and teacher, the

preacher and critic, the coach and cheerleader.

We have quite a company. As I stated this week in New York, it is one composed of

exceptionally interested, enthused, and dedicated people all determined to achieve our Wal-

Mart program, and make it totally the best retail chain in the United States. More and more

our long range sales goal of one billion dollars by 1981 looks attainable and entirely likely

as we build a broader base, increase competence of all management levels, and create a

company and program that is not only interesting and challenging for all of us but also

creates good benefits and economic security for all families. Our policy of being fair and

honest with each other must continue at every level.Nothing can stop Wal-Mart as we

maintain this team spirit, morale, and continue to work together. That is an unbeatable

combination. Let’s keep the doors open. It will be tough but I’m confident.

The dream kept growing and with that growth came many changes—the

stores looked better and better and service to the customers improved as Sam

and his team worked to perfect all aspects of operations and merchandising.

Change wasn’t easy, even for Sam. In change there are always risks. Every

organization wants to grow, but there are just as many if not more risks when

a company gets bigger. And for a company built on a sense of family, it’s

possible to lose the personal touch with the people and with the customers as

well. Recognizing that, Sam wrote:

When people are through changing, they’re through.

—Bruce Barton

Sometimes I wish we were the small company we once were not so long ago, so I could

personally see all of you occasionally, and thank you for the good job being done. It’s much

more difficult now to get around, but it doesn’t mean that any of us in management

appreciate any of you any less than ten years ago. Our situation is different in 1975 than in

1965. Our company has increased in size over 25 times in ten years with our total personnel