SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses Wal-Mart's vision to provide quality goods at low prices and the birth of Sam's Club, a unique retail-wholesale concept.
KEYWORDS: Wal-Mart, Sam's Club, Retail Strategy, Vision, Pricing
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

The customers liked what they saw too. They continued to shop at Wal- Mart, making the vision a reality—and helping it to grow beyond anything Sam ever dreamed of. Sam never wavered in his vision to provide service to small-town America, but as success bred success, he began to test his stores in midsized markets and then in the major metropolitan centers of America.

The vision grew, but the fundamental premise never changed: improve the standard of living for everyday people by providing quality goods at low prices.

The Vision Grows—Sam’s Club Is Born

In 1982, David Glass (who was then the CFO and who later became CEO of Wal-Mart), Sam, and I were in Southern California for a retailers’ convention,where we met with Sam’s good friend Sol Price, an entrepreneurial retailer who had developed a retail-wholesale concept he called the Price Club. It was a warehouse club that required you to buy a membership and pay an annual fee in order to shop there. The primary customers were small-business owners who could buy merchandise at wholesale prices (or lower) and resell to their customers at substantial savings. They could also buy many of their supplies at the Price Club.

Individual retail customers could buy memberships and shop there as well.

Though not everyone was optimistic about a business model where people would pay up front to shop in your store, the idea was so unique and intriguing that we decided to visit one of the clubs and see what we could learn. (Sam would never let us get away from the habit of visiting our competitors to learn how we could improve, a trait and discipline I will further elaborate on in the section titled “A Vision of What Is Right in Front of You.”)

We were blown away by what we saw. The Price Club was almost everything retail wasn’t supposed to be. It was located in an old, unattractive warehouse building with very limited parking and no other retail stores around it. It was dark and dingy inside; no effort had been made to make the building bright or attractive. The floors were concrete and the ceiling was exposed dark steel supports. The club carried a limited number of products,

many of them food items. There was nothing special about what we saw except outstanding prices and hundreds of smiling members from one end of the building to the other, pulling large, four-wheel carts filled with merchandise. Wow! That was really exciting!

A Vision is much more than a statement on a piece of paper that is posted on the bulletin board in the lunchroom or highlighted in the annual report. It is, in essence, your reason for being.

A vision must be the passion of the leader. A leader must be driven by his or her strong desire to make it become a reality.

A vision must ultimately impact all the decisions a leader makes.

A vision must be something that is difficult and challenging—but also attainable.

A vision must be exciting—if you want your people to be motivated about achieving it.

The role of the leader, then, is to paint a picture of that vision in such a way that those he or she is leading will embrace it and make it their own. In that way, all of the energies of the organization are focused on the same objective. That’s when the vision happens.

Since all Wal-Mart stores at that time were located in smaller markets, we reasoned this would be an excellent way to begin reaching and serving customers in larger metropolitan markets and start learning how to merchandise and sell food. Another very appealing aspect of the Price Club model was that we would be helping small businesses become more successful. After all, that was our own heritage and, in fact,we were still pretty small ourselves. Sam was always for the little guy, whether it was a person, a business, or an organization. This was a way to help them. So when we got back to our offices in Bentonville, we decided to experiment with the idea of a wholesale club.

In 1983, we opened our first Sam’s Club in Oklahoma City, in a building that had previously been an auto dealership. It was an instant success. The small-business owners flocked to Sam’s Club, as it provided them with a new, convenient, and competitive source of inventory and supplies at really great prices. It gave Wal-Mart an entry into larger markets and a new area of retail expertise: food.

But the Sam’s Club vision remained the same: improve the well-being of customers (members) through the best possible service, products, and prices.

More than twenty years later, Sam’s Club is a familiar fixture in the American retail landscape—to the point that its emergence as a key component of the Wal-Mart business plan can easily be taken for granted. Perhaps the key question that Sam’s Club raises is: how many companies launch major new initiatives in the midst of record-setting growth? In the previous decade, Wal-Mart had grown from $44 million to more than $2 billion in revenue—more than 1,000 percent growth. Many individuals, organizations, and companies make bold changes only when faced with setbacks and challenges, not when business is good.

Why experiment when everything is working? If it ain’t broke, why fix it?

While many talk about staying true to a vision, I firmly believe that Sam possessed—and instilled in his entire team—the discipline of vision: honestly evaluating yourself and your work today in light of what you want to be tomorrow.

So from a single store, to a regional chain of discount stores in small-town America, to a launch of wholesale clubs in metropolitan markets, the Wal- Mart vision continued to grow. And never content with the status quo, Sam continued to push us to better meet the needs of customers.

The Vision Grows—Supercenters Are Born