SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Corporate Culture and Leadership
SUMMARY: The text discusses the dangers of success and complacency, highlighting the need to maintain humility, avoid arrogance, and continuously strive for excellence.
KEYWORDS: success, complacency, hubris, humility, excellence
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

significant number of individuals and companies, which have been very

successful for a time, lose it for no apparent reason—at least for no obvious

reason. They had continued to have good workers and products and favorable

competitive positioning.

He who is good at making excuses is seldom good for anything else.

—Benjamin Franklin

While it would be easy to overgeneralize and simplify, I have observed

that success itself can be a major problem. It can be dangerous to be highly

successful. You can begin to think that you have arrived and that you are on

top of the mountain. This is when egos inflate in unhealthy ways. Then

leaders aren’t concerned about the company but begin to say with words and

actions, “Look at what I have done!” This can happen in companies and just

as easily in individuals.

When our egos get out of control, we lose our humility and become

arrogant. We begin to believe that we are always right. Arrogance leads to

bad decisions and treating others as second-class citizens. When everyone is

patting you on the back and praising your accomplishments, watch out; that’s

when you are vulnerable.

The ancient Greeks had a word for this: hubris. Hubris is an exaggerated

pride or self-confidence; an overbearing presumption; arrogance.

Unfortunately, the business world is full of stories of great individuals and

companies that have fallen due to their own egos. Out-of-control executive

perks and indulgences, shady deals meant to appease stockholders, associates

who are afraid to question or speak up to leadership: these are just a few of

the symptoms of hubris in the business world.

Complacency is the mortal enemy of growth and continued success. It is

easy to take success for granted and presume that because we have been

successful in the past, success will continue to be our friend in the future.

Nothing could be further from the truth. The reality is that you have to work

harder the more successful you become—your competitors have learned from

your success and are all out to beat you. At Wal-Mart, we always cautioned

our associates not to believe our press clippings. There is always room for

improvement. You are never as good as you ultimately can be. As Abraham

Lincoln expressed, “I do the very best I know how—the very best I can; and I

mean to keep on doing so until the end.”

If you love your work, you will be out there every day trying to do it the best you can and soon everyone

around you will catch that passion from you—like a fever.

—Sam Walton

One of the reasons we accomplished so much at Wal-Mart was that we

never lost sight of being the best that we could be. We corrected errors,

operated with a sense of faith and optimism, set high expectations of

ourselves, and guarded against complacency. We celebrated our success but

never became enthralled with our own press.

How about you? What great things are ahead for you and your

organization when you embrace a passion for excellence?

For reflection and action:

1. Does your company have a passion for excellence? How would you define

excellence in your organization?

2. What are some obvious errors that need correcting in your company?

3. Have you ever personally sensed the need to set your sights higher than the

level at which you have been performing? What can you do to make that

happen?

4. What enemies of excellence exist in your life and company right now?

5. How committed are you to not only doing things right—but the best way

they can be done?

Chapter 7

The Execution Imperative

The secret of success is to do common things uncommonly well.

—John D. Rockefeller Sr.

Wal-Mart Way Principle #7

Your success is in direct proportion to your ability to plan, monitor, and ultimately execute all phases of

your business.

I

n The Wal-Mart Way, I address a full range of dynamics that must work

together to create organizational success. You must start with a compelling

vision that is shared throughout the organization and drives all that you do.

You must have a product that meets the needs of your customers. You must

be able to access resources in capital, assets, and most importantly, great

people. You must have well-thought-out strategies that staff implements

consistently in order to achieve your objectives. You must reinforce and

cultivate an organizational culture that is built on a foundation of sound

values and beliefs.

I also share in this book numerous strategies that Wal-Mart gained

competency in as integral parts of our success story, including customer

satisfaction, respect for our people, merchandising, marketing, pricing,

technology, logistics, and community involvement. But the most critical

element in any strategy is the ability to actually make it happen; to do it. Wal-

Mart’s strategies served us only insofar as we executed them to the best of

our abilities.

I believe it is possible to have all the right strategies, a fantastic vision,

great access to capital, and everything else needed for success but still not

ever achieve it. That will always be the case if the people in your company

fail to execute. This is where I have seen so many companies fail. How can

that be? By the way, how is your organization when it comes to execution?

Attention to Detail

Consistent execution of a company’s various programs and strategies is

certainly not easy, especially as a company becomes large. There are so many

critical decisions and actions that must happen on so many different levels,

made by so many different people, and in so many different locations. How

does a leader make sure all that happens?

As leaders move higher in an organization and as that organization grows,

there is a mistaken assumption, a widespread myth, that they no longer have

time to be involved in the details of the business. As it correctly and

appropriately becomes necessary for them to delegate more responsibilities