SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Supply Chain Optimization
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart has continuously evolved its distribution centers, using data and performance tracking to improve efficiency and service.
KEYWORDS: distribution centers, supply chain, performance tracking, process optimization, Wal-Mart culture
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Not only has our use of equipment changed, but the layout of the

distribution centers has continued to evolve and become more efficient. We began to build taller distribution centers so that we could use the cubic feet more effectively. In fact, we have changed just about everything we used to do in a distribution center, and we are still changing. At any point in time, there are numerous experiments under way, and many of them result in new systems that improve productivity and service. Wal-Mart culture has helped us to avoid the temptation to believe that “we have arrived.”We are always acutely aware that we still have a lot more to learn.

Measuring and Tracking Performance

Over the years, the logistics team became real experts in measuring and analyzing every aspect of their operation. Just as with every other function in Wal-Mart, the team carefully scrutinized the monthly profit-and-loss statements for any slippage in performance and took corrective action immediately. Every morning, all managers in all distribution centers receive detailed recaps of the previous day’s numbers for their areas. The managers then dissect each function to find areas where they can improve performance. They also continuously scan these numbers for possible systems improvements that they can make. The numbers are not just production statistics; rather, the quality of service as well as safety performance are important points of review. Wal-Mart leadership has developed incentives for outstanding performance in each area as an encouragement to the associates to excel.

Throughout the day, all distribution center managers monitor the production process on their computer screens to see how the work is flowing and where any bottlenecks may be developing. They can move associates from one area of the distribution center to another at a moment’s notice in order to keep the merchandise flowing. This is incredibly important, as the staggering volume of merchandise that each center receives and ships each day makes maintaining the highest level of efficiency a crucial priority. This type of process flow analysis is quite common in manufacturing, but it has been revolutionary for distribution centers.

The Move to Food

When we decided to build Supercenters (discount stores with full-line grocery departments), we obviously needed to learn how to distribute food products. We had never done that outside of our Sam’s Club bulk items, so we began by using wholesale distributors who knew and understood the business. The canned goods and dry groceries were very similar to general merchandise, but fresh and frozen products had to be handled very differently. We had to make provisions for coolers and freezers in our distribution centers as well as for specialized trailers for shipping the merchandise to keep the products at the appropriate temperatures. After we became familiar with handling these products properly and began to move increasing volumes of food items, we decided to build our own distribution centers that specialized only in food

The man who can drive himself further once the effort gets painful is the man who will win.

—Roger Bannister

As with many of the challenges we tackled at Wal-Mart, a sizable number of analysts and critics thought we wouldn’t be able to efficiently distribute food. I think we actually drew energy from the naysayers—we wanted to prove them wrong again! And we did. The same evolutionary process and progress took place with food logistics as had occurred with our general merchandise distribution centers. Today we have state-of-the-art food distribution. Innovation is continuing to happen throughout the logistics network.

One Size Does Not Fit All

In the early years, deliveries were made once a week to each store. As the sales in the stores grew and we opened larger and larger stores, we had to deliver more frequently—twice a week, then every other day, and then every day for most stores. Today, many stores receive multiple deliveries every day. Each time the need arose to service the stores more effectively, the logistics systems had to be changed. The team built flexibility into every system and customized deliveries for each store, depending on size and needs. In Wal-Mart systems, we have never forced one size to fit all.

Similarly, when we first introduced Sam’s Clubs, the manufacturers sent

all of their shipments directly to each club. They carried a limited number of items and sold large quantities of each item. Over time, however, it became apparent that using the Wal-Mart approach would work for them as well and provide many of the same benefits for their clubs. So the systems were adapted once again, and today the Wal-Mart distribution centers handle freight for all of our retail formats: discount stores, Supercenters, Sam’s Clubs, and Neighborhood Markets.

Just-in-Time Delivery: Wal-Mart Trucking

In order to control delivery to our stores on a more timely basis, we developed our own trucking operation. Instead of remaining dependent on outside carriers, who were often great but who had no obligation to take care of Wal-Mart first, it seemed natural, as we grew, to hire our own truck drivers who would become a part of the Wal-Mart team. Our trucking associates work closely with the distribution associates to make sure that we serve our stores as effectively as is possible.