SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Supplier Relationship Management
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart developed a trust-based relationship with suppliers like Procter & Gamble, leading to improved inventory management and increased sales.
KEYWORDS: supplier relationship, trust relationship, Retail Link, inventory management, supply chain management
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Our success in establishing a trust relationship led us to develop what we described in chapter 8, a system we call Retail Link. We gave our suppliers direct access to our computers to follow and analyze on their PC screens the retail sales of all their items by store, district, region, state, or the whole country. They are now able to track daily sales on any item in any location and test new items anywhere in the country and get instant feedback on how those items are selling in the stores. We trusted that our suppliers would not share the information with our competitors, which provided a whole new foundation for our relationship with our suppliers.

No One Wins Until Everyone Wins

A fundamental element of a trust relationship that needs to be underscored is that the relationship must be beneficial for all parties involved. No one wins until everyone wins. Again, the supplier has to win, the retailer has to win, and the customer has to win—and we all won. In 1987, before we embarked on this relationship with Procter & Gamble, our annual purchases from them were approximately $350 million. In the year ending January 31, 2004, these purchases surpassed $8 billion.

Another dramatic example was what happened to the inventory turns of some items. In 1987, inventory turns on disposable diapers was approximately twenty times per year. As a result of Wal-Mart and Procter & Gamble’s working together, the number of turns was increased to seventy-

five times per year. This type of improvement would appear to be impossible, but it happened. While this is certainly an extreme case, there were thousands of items that showed marked improvement.

Our relationship with Wal-Mart is an extension of our own family. They care about us. Yes, they expect a lot of us as they do of themselves.They’re wonderful at sharing direction and ideas. They will let you be as involved as you want to be, to the point of serving on some advisory boards. It’s not about us or them but “we.” It’s a real team effort.

—Skip Rein, vice chairman, Bernstein-Rein Advertising,

Kansas City, MO

But the success wasn’t limited to Procter & Gamble and GE. We have similar results with many, many other suppliers. In fact, the trust-relationship, open-communication revolution has impacted the entire retail industry.

Retailers and suppliers all over the world have learned from what we did and changed many of their practices as well.

This is another example about striving to be the best we can be in all we do. There were obviously risks involved in what we did and investments we had to make, but everyone involved experienced enormous payback. With the changes that we instituted with our suppliers, we entered a new era of supply chain management.

Everyday Low-Cost Negotiating

Driven by our constant focus on keeping prices low for our customers, we have always attempted to buy merchandise at the lowest cost possible. The collaboration with suppliers that I have just explained has helped drive millions of dollars of unnecessary cost out of operations and logistics.

But in addition to real cost savings, I must confess that Wal-Mart buyers have always been tough negotiators. Literally hundreds and hundreds of suppliers have told me personally that Wal-Mart’s buyers are the toughest negotiators in the retail industry. They are also quick to add that Wal-Mart is likewise the fairest company to work with, and that their own companies are definitely better because of doing business with Wal-Mart.

Wal-Mart leadership insists we pay our bills on time and that we keep any

promises we have made to suppliers. Any buyer who accepts gifts, trips, or any other special personal considerations from a supplier will be terminated. Our buyers are rotated among departments so that their decisions remain fair and objective rather than personality-driven. Our goal has always been to keep business dealings aboveboard.

Yes, Wal-Mart can be a demanding customer for suppliers, but always in an ethical and fair manner. It stands to reason that Wal-Mart must have successful and healthy suppliers in order to stay successful itself. We depend on well over ten thousand suppliers to provide the merchandise for our stores. We need them every bit as much as they need us.

Another way that we have kept our costs down is to ask our suppliers to eliminate the practice of periodic special deals, allowances, and other forms of temporary cost reductions. How does this keep costs down? Simple. We tell them to forget the specials and sell the merchandise to us without any frills at their rock-bottom prices every day. We don’t want great deals on unpopular merchandise that customers don’t want unless it’s drastically reduced. We believe our everyday low cost approach best serves our customers by providing the everyday low prices and the right merchandise. It also greatly simplifies the inventory management process because we don’t have to keep track of a myriad of special deals that are still so common in the retail industry.

Wal-Mart has also focused on working with small suppliers and minority suppliers. It is amazing how many of these companies have experienced rapid growth and become highly successful organizations in their own right. We love that. Remember, Sam’s original vision was to provide for customers in small rural markets. Also, the concept of Sam’s Clubs is to sell supplies and merchandise to the owners of small businesses at lower prices than they can get anywhere else. Although Wal-Mart has become the largest company in the world, we are still focused on reducing the cost of living for every single customer at every socioeconomic level. By working in partnership with our suppliers and continuing to drive costs out, we will maintain our focus on doing what is right for our customers.

Wal-Mart’s expectations of suppliers are high but fair and their tough negotiation is always conducted in a professional and principled manner to better serve their customers. The Wal-