SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Wal-Mart Leadership Development
SUMMARY: The text outlines the career trajectory of a Wal-Mart associate who rose through the ranks, highlighting the company's emphasis on cross-pollination and transferable leadership skills.
KEYWORDS: leadership development, cross-pollination, career progression, Wal-Mart, technology
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

store in Ada, Oklahoma. He was a student at East Central University and was

working his way through college. When he graduated, he decided to become

a full-time Wal-Mart associate and was assigned to a position as a company

auditor.

After several years in that role, he was promoted to an entry-level job in

the technology department. He continued to be promoted into increasingly

higher level positions in technology and eventually rose to senior vice

president and CIO of Wal-Mart in 1999.

Kevin was always involved in using technology to serve the needs of the

business with a keen eye on the needs of the customer. He always

demonstrated a great sense of urgency in all that he did. In 2002, Kevin was

promoted to president and CEO of Sam’s Clubs, a $30 billion division of

Wal-Mart.

Kevin comments:

Early on I heard our leaders use the term “cross pollination” and describe how important it

was and how big a part it had played in the formulation of Wal-Mart. After my third job in as

many divisions within the company, I came to realize how blessed I had been to learn from

the variety of experiences and people I had been exposed to, each contributing to my career

and preparing me for the next job. Not only does being “cross pollinated” broaden your

point of view but it also helps us become a better company by having people who can

leverage the entire enterprise in the best way possible.

I believe that leadership skills are transferable and can be taught. Theresa

and Kevin are great examples of this. There are literally thousands of stories

that are similar to these, and they continue to happen every day in Wal-Mart.

A Special Note to Wal-Mart Associates from Don

“Today the dream is the same—only now it is our dream. Yours and mine.

Because of the man who had a dream, we have changed the way we all think,

act, and lead. Because of the man who had a dream, the face of retailing has

been changed the world over. The way we buy and sell merchandise, the way

we ship and store it has changed. Because of the man who had a dream, we

have changed the way customers are greeted and satisfied. Because of the

man who had a dream, we have changed how people are treated and how

businesses are run. And because of the man who had a dream, we will

continue to grow and to change what we do and the way we do it.”

Wal-Mart Growth by Decade

BY DECADE TOTAL REVENUE # OF STORES # OF ASSOCIATES

1/31/1970 $30.8 million 32 900

1/31/1980 $1.2 billion 276 21,000

1/31/1990 $25.8 billion 1,528 275,000

1/31/2000 $165 billion 3,985 1,140,000

1/31/2004 $256.3 billion 4,906 1,500,000

For Reflection and Action:

1. Have you ever had a dream, whether simple or grand, that you would love

to accomplish in your life?

2. What are some “detours” you have experienced in your personal and work

life? How have you responded to setbacks and challenges?

3. How comfortable are you with change? Are you flexible? Are you

committed to growth?

Chapter 2

Vision—The Power of Seeing What Others Don’t See

Discovery consists of seeing what everybody has seen and thinking what nobody has thought.

—Albert von Szent-Gyorgy

Wal-Mart Way Principle #2

You must have a vision that allows you to see a bigger, better, stronger you in the future—

while never taking your eyes off of who you are and what you are doing today.

V

ision is the beginning point of any great endeavor. Christopher Columbus

saw a great continent beyond the western horizon, while others saw the

jagged edge of the world. Roger Bannister pictured himself crossing the

finish line in a one-mile race in less than four minutes, while others saw only

the limits of physical attainment. NASA scientists envisioned a human

walking on the moon, while other brilliant minds had mathematically proven

that such space travel was impossible.

Vision is a picture of how we would like tomorrow to look—or, put

another way, how we would like ourselves to look tomorrow. Every good

leadership book identifies vision as an essential characteristic of a leader, and

every good leader has learned his or her responsibility to create and

communicate a vision. But the danger is that talk of vision has become so

prevalent—maybe even so commonplace—that many leaders take the

process and discipline of vision-casting for granted.

How about you? How much time and energy have you given to creating

and sharing a personal and corporate vision?

Sam Walton’s Simple Vision

Just as Sam began with a simple dream—to own his own store—his vision

would likewise have not been considered very grand, sophisticated, or

ambitious by most of his business contemporaries. Even with his vision

becoming an enormous and ongoing reality, there are still experts who

discount the power of Sam’s vision, chalking up the Wal-Mart story to luck

rather than the tenacious pursuit of a vision. I would argue that few things are

more powerful and dynamic than a vision.

When he looked into the future, Sam didn’t see Wal-Mart as the

largestretailer in the world. He simply wanted to provide a better shopping

experience for people living in small towns. He wanted to improve their

standard of living by providing quality goods at low prices in a pleasant

shopping environment. He wanted to accomplish this with a team of

dedicated people . (Sam checked a person’s smile before he checked his

educational background!) He strongly believed that if his team of associates

felt as if they were part of a family, it would make his vision a joy and a

success. And ultimately, as a smart businessman, Sam realized that if the

stores were successful, he could continue to grow the company and touch

more and more customers with his vision.

Warren Buffet estimates that Wal-Mart saves consumers $10 billion annually, primarily