SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Customer Service and Employee Training
SUMMARY: The text emphasizes the importance of friendly and helpful associates in providing exceptional customer service at Wal-Mart stores.
KEYWORDS: customer service, employee training, Wal-Mart culture, Ten-Foot Rule, customer satisfaction
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Our People Make the Difference

A friendly atmosphere begins with wonderfully friendly associates in our stores. They are the heart and soul of Wart-Mart’s customer-satisfaction program. They are the ones who meet and greet each customer each day.

They are the ones who represent Wal-Mart to every customer. If they are outgoing and pleasant, then Wal-Mart is outgoing and pleasant; if they are curt and distant and distracted, then Wal-Mart is curt and distant and distracted. The associates are literally the face, the hands, and the voice of Wal-Mart. It is what the associates in the stores do that is responsible for the outstanding reputation we have enjoyed over the years. They are friendly even when dealing with angry and unfriendly customers, and even when they are dealing with their own personal problems at home or work.

I mentioned earlier that you can’t work a single day without someone or something reminding you how important the customer is. Our associates have bought into Sam’s vision. They believe in the company and what we stand for. And it shows up every time a customer enters the store.

How do you create a friendly workforce? One of the simplest ways is to

hire cheerful people. For Wal-Mart then, our friendliness begins with the hiring process. We look for positive, outgoing people—people we would enjoy talking to and working with. So we ask our associates if they have friends that would like to work here—people they would recommend. In many of our stores, the hiring committee is made up of hourly associates who have demonstrated that they are pleasant and hardworking and care about other people. They generally make excellent choices about who would fit in well at Wal-Mart. We tell them to hire happy people and then release them on the customers.

Three Simple Business Reminders

Customers know what they want. Listen to them.

Timing is everything—stay in stock!

Half of consumers agree that if they find a helpful salesperson, they often end up spending more money than intended.

In the chapter “The Power of Culture,” I mentioned that not everyone who has come to work for Wal-Mart buys into the Wal-Mart culture, and because of the ongoing emphasis we put on our culture, they often don’t stick around. That is particularly the case with friendliness. Some people think that smiling and trying to be helpful is a bit too naïve, unsophisticated, and even sappy for their personas. That’s okay. These people simply need to find a company or organization that presents a different demeanor. Wal-Mart is small-town friendly.

What’s the Ten-Foot Rule?

Sam instituted what he called the Ten-Foot Rule. When you come within ten feet of a customer, no matter what you are doing, look up, look the customer in the eye, and speak to him. If you are asked where something is, instead of pointing to the aisle or trying to explain where it is, take him to the merchandise. This amazes many customers.

As a result,Wal-Mart customers feel as if they belong in our stores. Our customers are frequently in our stores several times a week—some even

daily. Our associates actually get to know the names of many of their customers, and people love to be called by name. Customers come in looking for certain associates to talk with when they are in the store. Frequently, customers refer to a particular store as “my Wal-Mart.” They actually feel a sense of ownership, which leads to a real family atmosphere and very positively influences their entire shopping experience. Our advertising agency frequently interviews customers in our stores and asks them what they like about Wal-Mart and why they shop there. One customer they interviewed responded, “I trust Wal-Mart; it’s like my grandma told me to shop here.” The associates’ friendliness makes the customers feel at home and, we believe, really sets Wal-Mart apart from our competitors.

Businesses planned for service are apt to succeed; businesses planned for profit are apt to fail.

—Nicholas Murray Butler

Little Things Mean a Lot

Customer loyalty doesn’t just happen; you have to work on it every day. It isn’t only big things; it’s a lot of little things done over and over again. Over time, these little things demonstrate to your customers that you really care about them and are genuinely interested in satisfying them. It is important to understand that you don’t do it only to increase sales; you do it because it’s the right thing to do.

It means having a people-greeter in every Wal-Mart store to welcome every customer when he or she comes in the front door. It means that it is incredibly important to be in stock on every item, so we don’t disappoint any customer. In fact, “in stock”may be the most important element of customer satisfaction because, obviously, customers come in to buy merchandise. If they can’t find what they came for, they will leave disappointed. If that happens too frequently, they will shop somewhere else. That’s why Wal-Mart puts so much emphasis on execution. You can be a pretty store—brightly lit, clean and attractive, with friendly sales clerks—but if you are out of stock, the customers will leave your store unhappy.

It means accepting merchandise back if the customer is not satisfied. If something doesn’t fit, is the wrong color, or doesn’t work, bring it back

without a hassle—just have your sales receipt. We have tried to eliminate the hassle and make it easy. (Unfortunately, however, some customers try to take advantage of our liberal returns policy, and this has caused the company to tighten up on returns so that our honest customers are not penalized by increased prices.)