SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Expansion Strategy
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's decision to experiment with the Sam's Club wholesale club concept and expand into food retail through Supercenters as part of its growth strategy.
KEYWORDS: Sam's Club, Supercenters, Retail Expansion, Grocery Retail, Wal-Mart Vision
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

successful. After all, that was our own heritage and, in fact,we were still

pretty small ourselves. Sam was always for the little guy, whether it was a

person, a business, or an organization. This was a way to help them. So when

we got back to our offices in Bentonville, we decided to experiment with the

idea of a wholesale club.

In 1983, we opened our first Sam’s Club in Oklahoma City, in a building

that had previously been an auto dealership. It was an instant success. The

small-business owners flocked to Sam’s Club, as it provided them with a

new, convenient, and competitive source of inventory and supplies at really

great prices. It gave Wal-Mart an entry into larger markets and a new area of

retail expertise: food.

But the Sam’s Club vision remained the same: improve the well-being of

customers (members) through the best possible service, products, and prices.

More than twenty years later, Sam’s Club is a familiar fixture in the

American retail landscape—to the point that its emergence as a key

component of the Wal-Mart business plan can easily be taken for granted.

Perhaps the key question that Sam’s Club raises is: how many companies

launch major new initiatives in the midst of record-setting growth? In the

previous decade, Wal-Mart had grown from $44 million to more than $2

billion in revenue—more than 1,000 percent growth. Many individuals,

organizations, and companies make bold changes only when faced with

setbacks and challenges, not when business is good.

Why experiment when everything is working? If it ain’t broke, why fix it?

While many talk about staying true to a vision, I firmly believe that Sam

possessed—and instilled in his entire team—the discipline of vision: honestly

evaluating yourself and your work today in light of what you want to be

tomorrow.

So from a single store, to a regional chain of discount stores in small-town

America, to a launch of wholesale clubs in metropolitan markets, the Wal-

Mart vision continued to grow. And never content with the status quo, Sam

continued to push us to better meet the needs of customers.

The Vision Grows—Supercenters Are Born

Our success with selling food in Sam’s was a good indicator that we could

do it in other settings. If it worked so well in Sam’s, why not try food in Wal-

Mart stores? We could make it even more convenient for our customers by

creating a one-stop shopping experience. No need to drive around town for

all your household needs—do it all in Wal-Mart, with everyday low prices on

your food as well as your general merchandise.

David Glass and I hit the road again, this time up to Grand Rapids,

Michigan, to visit a wonderful “combination store”—commonplace today,

but revolutionary in the early eighties—founded and run by Fred Mejeirs. He

was a great merchant, particularly in food, a category in which he had a

strong background. Mejeirs had been successfully operating combination

stores in Michigan for some time. It was obvious that his stores were doing a

great deal of business. We were also impressed with the many service shops

they had at the front of the stores to serve a wide array of their customers’

needs—from banking to family photos to hairstyling. It was on that trip that

we decided that we could do the same thing in Wal-Mart.

Sam knew how to see the big picture—how to think big. But he also knew how to bag

groceries, reload receipt paper, and greet customers—do whatever it took to take his vision as

far as it could go. When was the last time you rolled up your sleeves and engaged in the

frontline activities of your company?

We had a lot to learn about food and how to operate such a large store

profitably. Our first experiment consisted of erecting two enormous buildings

—similar in concept to a European-style “hypermarket”—in Dallas, Texas,

and Kansas City,Missouri. Frankly, we overbuilt our Hypermarts and spent

too much on them. We were able to generate more sales than we ever had in a

Wal-Mart store, but we struggled to produce a profit because we had too

much overhead.

We debated whether we could fine-tune the Hypermart model and make it

successful; we finally decided to trim it back and build our first Supercenter

in Washington, Missouri. It was far from perfect and needed a lot of work,

but it was a great beginning. We built the Supercenters with both food and

general merchandise under the same roof and included a number of service

shops up front. We loved the concept, and better yet, our customers loved it.

We did have a lot of growing pains, however, and had to develop the concept

for several years before we began to expand.

We refused to move ahead until we were confident that the Supercenter

was right for our customers. Each new version of the store was better than the

last, and by the end of 1991 we began to aggressively insert Supercenters into

our overall growth plans. Once again, we learned from our competition,

experimented, and greatly expanded our opportunity.

The Vision Grows—The International Division Is Born

If our model worked so well in America, why not try it in another country?

In 1991, we developed a relationship with Cifra, the most outstanding retailer

in Mexico. Again, we had a lot to learn and suffered setbacks and

disappointments along the way. For example, the leaders in Cifra did not

believe that everyday low prices would work in Mexico. They were

convinced that their customers were too accustomed to special pricing that

showed up in the regular circulars. They did not want to depart from their

high/low pricing strategy. They found it difficult to accept that a marketing

strategy that worked in the U.S. would work equally as well with the

customers in Mexico. In their minds, it would be costly to change the overall

pricing strategy with too much risk involved. Several years later, when the