SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Leadership and Change Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses how Walmart's founder, Sam Walton, led the company's growth and change, while emphasizing the importance of valuing people, hard work, and adaptability.
KEYWORDS: leadership, change management, growth, people-centric, adaptability
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

well. Recognizing that, Sam wrote:

When people are through changing, they’re through.

—Bruce Barton

Sometimes I wish we were the small company we once were not so long ago, so I could

personally see all of you occasionally, and thank you for the good job being done. It’s much

more difficult now to get around, but it doesn’t mean that any of us in management

appreciate any of you any less than ten years ago. Our situation is different in 1975 than in

1965. Our company has increased in size over 25 times in ten years with our total personnel

increasing from about 250 in 1965 to approximately 6,500 in 1975.

Yes, the company grew and the better it became, the bigger it got. No

matter how big Wal-Mart became, though, Sam shared his dream with all of

us one by one, and we all became a part of it. Near the end of his life he

wrote to his associates again:

I had no vision of the scope of what I would start, but I always had confidence that as long as

we did our work well, and were good to our customers, there would be no limits to us. I

would like to be remembered as a good friend to everyone whose lives I’ve touched as their

friend, as someone who meant something to them or helped them in some way. That is

important. I have such strong feelings for the folks in our company. They have meant so much

to me.

He led us to become the most successful retail company in the United

States—and the world. In the end, he did receive honor and glory from the

world over, including several U.S. presidents; he did make friends across the

land and was recognized by sight and name probably as much as any single

man in the United States. So, you see, the dream—to do good for others—

resulted in what others often dream about.

If Sam Were Here Today

Now Sam’s gone and things have changed, and they will never be the same

again. But things changed while he was here, and more than anyone, he was

the agent for those changes. Were he here today, his encouragement would

be, “Hold fast to what is important, but change what needs to be changed.

Change is inevitable—so let’s be a positive force in the midst of it.” In the

words of James Champy, author of Reengineering Management:

It is not enough for a leader to have a vision. A leader needs to attract followers, men and

women who can commit themselves to the new ideal and necessity of customer focus. But if

the mobilization process is to succeed those followers must become leaders too, finding their

own sense of purpose in the shared challenge and spreading the call and vision of change.

Sam accomplished great things—he created the Wal-Mart Way—by

valuing people and hard work. He made serving people his number-one

priority. He asked for help when he needed it. He allowed his coworkers to

share in the dream with him, and he told them how valuable they were and

how much he appreciated them. He worked hard. He wasn’t afraid to change

in order to stay ahead of the game.

Growing Dreams by Growing People

Because of Sam’s flexibility and tenaciousness, his dream of owning his

own store succeeded and grew. And along the way, thousands upon

thousands of individuals grew right along with that dream. Here are two

remarkable stories of two remarkable Wal-Mart associates who captured the

company’s vision.

Theresa Barrera

Theresa started working for the Sam’s Club in Corpus Christi, Texas, as a

part-time cashier in November 1985. Theresa’s mother passed away after

Theresa had been working at Sam’s for only six weeks. She was impressed

and touched that two of the club’s management team came to the funeral.

In the fall of 1986, she was awarded a Wal-Mart scholarship that enabled

her to finish her college education. At approximately the same time, she

began working full time in another hourly job.

In January 1990, she was promoted to a management position in the home

office as an internal auditor and moved to Bentonville. In 1993, she was

promoted to a position as special projects coordinator in the international

division. Her next job in that division was as a buyer.

In 1995, she moved into the Wal-Mart stores division as a buyer and was

promoted to divisional merchandise manager in 1999. In 2001, she was

promoted to vice president of Wal-Mart and today is responsible for more

than $5.2 billion of merchandise purchases for Wal-Mart stores.

Theresa shares:

I personally feel I have been a very lucky woman. Nineteen years ago I started working at

Sam’s as a part-time cashier. Never in my wildest dreams did I believe I could achieve what I

have. I will tell you I was given a chance. Wal-Mart has challenged me and I worked really

hard to prove myself. Not only do I have an amazing career, I have two amazing daughters.

There is nothing more satisfying than living the life you want. Wal-Mart encourages all of us

to have mentors and “mentees.” I feel this is so important so we continue to grow and

develop new young talent—just as someone did with me.

Kevin Turner

In 1986, Kevin joined Wal-Mart as a temporary cashier in a Wal-Mart

store in Ada, Oklahoma. He was a student at East Central University and was

working his way through college. When he graduated, he decided to become

a full-time Wal-Mart associate and was assigned to a position as a company

auditor.

After several years in that role, he was promoted to an entry-level job in

the technology department. He continued to be promoted into increasingly

higher level positions in technology and eventually rose to senior vice

president and CIO of Wal-Mart in 1999.

Kevin was always involved in using technology to serve the needs of the