SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Community Involvement and Philanthropy
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's community involvement and philanthropic efforts, including supporting the WWII Memorial and Statue of Liberty, and providing shelter during a flood in Germany.
KEYWORDS: community involvement, philanthropy, disaster relief, WWII Memorial, Statue of Liberty
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

what we did in connection with the new World War II Memorial in

Washington, D.C. In 2001, the local stores, clubs, and distribution centers

raised $8.5 million through various activities with our customers, adding to

the $6 million contribution made directly by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. The

WWII memorial opened Memorial Day Weekend 2004, and the company

was represented at the ceremony not by our CEO, but by twenty WWII

veterans who work for Wal-Mart today. Wal-Mart also undertook a similar

effort to support the reopening of the Statue of Liberty, which had been

closed since September 11, 2001.

We don’t do this for publicity—we do it because we want to and because

we believe that it is the right thing to do. We have never wanted to toot our

own horn. We don’t ever want our communities or our own people to get the

idea that the reason we give back to communities is to pat ourselves on the

back. And even when we try to encourage our associates to ask the local

newspaper to come out and take pictures of various events, we do it so that

people in the community will better appreciate the Boy Scouts, the Boys and

Girls Club, organizations that help with handicapped kids, or whoever it is

we are helping to support and promote a cause. We strive to gain greater

exposure for the organizations in order to encourage others to give to them as

well.

Giving in Other Countries

As we have moved into other countries, the Wal-Mart community

involvement philosophy has been an important part of the culture transfer that

has taken place in each country. Basically, the stores have followed the exact

same philosophy as that in the United States, although they may implement

them differently in each country. As in our U.S. stores, it’s up to the

associates in each individual store to come up with the ideas of how to give

and whom to give to. Associates in stores outside the U.S. are every bit as

involved as the associates in our U.S. stores. Their ideas are always

innovative, and there are many stories about how they have acted as good

neighbors in their own countries.

One interesting story comes from Germany, where tremendous flooding

occurred in 2002. The associates in one of the towns that was hit hardest

invited hundreds of the townspeople who were driven from their homes to

spend a number of nights sleeping on the floor in the Wal-Mart store. They

also set up tents in the parking lot and tried to create as comfortable sleeping

arrangements as they could. The German people perceived this as a

wonderful act of compassion by Wal-Mart, but it was also a great boost to the

morale of the associates in the store. One of them shared with me how proud

they all were to be a part of a company that cared so much about helping

people who were in need. Our executives in the International Division have

made community involvement a priority in the strategic development of each

new country, demonstrating to the world that we care about people

everywhere.

The leadership team at Wal-Mart has always believed in being contributing

members of our communities. Sam expected it. The result has been a

substantial and comprehensive program that touches the lives of people every

day. While the primary focus has been on making significant, matching-

dollar contributions each year that go to specific local priorities, it has

mushroomed far beyond that, encompassing major national and international

efforts to promote the free-enterprise system around the world, to relieve

suffering in children’s hospitals, to build and restore national monuments, to

assist in literacy projects and many other education initiatives, to develop

relevant nonfinancial programs that help to protect our youth and children,

and to systematically encourage our own associates to volunteer their time to

worthwhile not-for-profit organizations.

Each man should give what he has decided in his heart to give, not reluctantly or under

compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.

—Saint Paul (2 Corinthians 9:7)

Since most of our giving has been local in nature, many people are

unaware of the size and impact our program has had. In many of our large

market cities, programs such as Good Works seem to go unnoticed—unless

there is a major disaster. That’s the way it should be. Our deepest satisfaction

comes from knowing we are doing the right thing—and the appreciation we

have received from those thousands and thousands of individuals and

organizations whom Wal-Mart giving has directly impacted.

At a time when it was needed the most, Wal-Mart has extended its hand to support a 104-year

old tradition that benefits many thousands of people in communities throughout the United

States, “Every dollar put into our Red Kettles is used locally, and Wal-Mart’s generosity by

matching those dollars will extend our local services to many more needy individuals

requiring our assistance far beyond the holiday season.”

—Commissioner W. Todd Bassett,

National Commander of The Salvation Army

Wal-Mart Giving At-a-Glance

• In 2003, Forbes magazine recognized Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. as the Largest

Corporate Cash Giver. The magazine cited The Chronicle of

Philanthropy’s annual survey based on sales and cash donations.

• Last year,Wal-Mart, Sam’s Clubs, and distribution centers provided grants

to more than one hundred thousand local nonprofit organizations to help

address causes that matter most in their communities.

• Wal-Mart supports many organizations and events that represent the ethnic

diversity of our associates, customers, and communities both nationally

and at the local level. Partnerships include the National Association for the

Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), Congressional Black Caucus,

the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, National Council of La Raza,Mexican

American Legal Defense and Education Fund, United Negro College Fund,

as well as other community-based organizations committed to improving

the quality of life for all members of our communities.

For reflection and action:

1. Does your company—do you—consider giving important? Why or why

not?