SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Organizational Culture
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of nurturing a unique and common organizational culture to achieve success, with Wal-Mart's culture being a key to its success.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, common values, leadership responsibility, Wal-Mart culture, belief system
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

common standards, and those standards provide the basis for all their actions.

And that’s where the role of leadership—from the boardroom to the frontline

department manger—becomes so crucial. It is the leader’s responsibility to

“tell the story,” “paint the picture,” “walk the talk” of what is truly important

to an organization. In great organizations, a leader’s words and actions model

what really matters, and as a result, everyone gets on the same page and pulls

together.

One of the keys—I believe, the key—to Wal-Mart’s success story has been

our commitment to forge common ground among the hundreds of thousands

of people in the organization. To a remarkable degree, associates across

demographic lines of gender, age, race, creed—and even across international

borders—share the same vision, the same values and beliefs, the same high

expectations and purposes. Why? Because Wal-Mart works hard on nurturing

a unique culture.

In an age that celebrates differences and diversity (often appropriately and

for many good reasons), I am still convinced that the most successful

organizations define, emphasize, and celebrate common ground. How is your

company’s culture today? Be assured, you will either create a corporate

culture on purpose—or your associates will accomplish the task for you, both

with and without your input!

Author Note: From the time I joined the team, I felt a keen sense of responsibility to preserve

Wal-Mart culture, that exceptional commitment to doing what is right, especially after Sam

passed away. But in truth, while leadership must set the direction, in the end, culture is

everyone’s responsibility. One of the most powerful dynamics for Wal-Mart is that the culture

is so deeply ingrained in so many of our people that it continues to be passed on to new

associates, one person and one day at a time. My prayer is that Wal-Mart associates will

never quit fighting to keep the culture alive, that they will always maintain their zeal for

treating people right. That is what Sam would have wanted.

So What Is Culture?

When we observe the different nations in the world, we readily see how

differently they think and act from one another—and from our own nation.

We find this reality to be both fascinating and, at times, difficult to

understand—or, in a few cases, even frightening. The key to understanding

any culture is discovering the dominant belief system that its people share.

In the same way, companies and organizations experience and express

different cultures on the basis of their different belief systems. Some people

attempt to minimize the notion of belief in general, but I would argue that all

of us, whether or not we are religiously minded, hold certain foundational

beliefs that affect our every relationship and decision.

Culture is the personality of an organization. Therefore, culture governs

much of how people think, act, interact with others, and do their work. It is

extremely powerful in determining the present and continuing success and

the future direction of any organization. Culture can literally determine

whether a company has a future.

A Culture of the Can-Do Attitude

Attitude is a huge component of culture, as well as the dynamic for

creating and maintaining culture. You can gauge your attitude by asking,How

do I view life? This is particularly illuminating when asked in the context of

problems and challenges. Do you approach problems believing that you can

handle them? How do you handle crisis situations? Do you see problems as

roadblocks to success, or do you see them as opportunities to improve? Your

answers to all of these questions will form a large part of your culture, and no

one’s attitude is more important to an organizational culture than that of its

leaders.

The attitudes leaders have affect the way they do their jobs and the way

they treat their people, and they will ultimately impact the success of their

organization. Your people are watching you every day, developing

perceptions of themselves, of the organization, and of you as leader, all on

the basis of your attitude. By your attitude and actions, you can inspire your

people to think positively and confidently as they set out to solve problems,

knowing they can do it.

The Wal-Mart organizational culture begins with a positive, can-do

attitude, which welcomes our customers at the front door in the person of a

greeter. But it doesn’t stop at being friendly at the front door. On a deeper

level, we—all of our associates—truly believe we can weather the challenges

and storms of the corporate world, while maintaining a reverence for small-

town values—and all the while having fun! Not surprisingly, the main Wal-

Mart symbol in our advertising is a happy face; we are an optimistic and

hardworking people.

I studied the lives of great men and famous women; and I found that the men and women who got to the

top were those who did the jobs they had in hand, with everything they had of energy and enthusiasm

and hard work.

—Harry S. Truman

Beginning with Sam,Wal-Mart leaders have always stressed an attitude

that we can get the job done, no matter how great the task. When faced with a

problem or challenge, the question was always, “What are we going to do

about it?” If a competitor was opening a store across the street, the response

was never “Woe is us,” but always “How can we improve our own store?

How can we satisfy our customers better?”We viewed competition as healthy

and good because it always made us better, and I believe we in turn made the

competition better.

Sam’s Cultural Legacy

In the early morning hours of April 5, 1992, Sam Walton passed into

eternity. The founder, the entrepreneur, the leader, the legend was gone.

Surely, he would be missed, and Wal-Mart would never be the same again.

Many companies never recover when the founder leaves. And we certainly

knew that Sam Walton could never be replaced.

At the time, many business analysts predicted that Wal-Mart would