SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Operations Management
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart holds regular meetings to engage store managers, share company direction, and foster a strong company culture.
KEYWORDS: Retail operations, Company culture, Communication, Management meetings, Store managers
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

meeting on Friday at noon. During this time, they have meetings scheduled

with the buyers and other home office associates, where they ask questions

and share their ideas on how to improve the company. They have great

observations and suggestions, many of which are implemented throughout

the whole company. Before they go home, they are given a recap of all their

suggestions and what the company is going to do about them. When they go

back to their stores, they are given a chance to share with the associates in

their local operations about their experiences. During this process, they not

only learn more about the company and the company culture, but they

actually experience it—and pass it on.

Store managers and district managers are on the front lines every day and

in constant contact with our customers. It is extremely important to keep

them informed on company direction, supporting and living out the company

culture and excited about the company. Therefore, we believe that it is

important to have personal contact with them as frequently as possible. As a

result, we hold large meetings twice a year in convention centers and bring

them, along with key assistant managers, in from all over the country.

Every department provides large merchandise displays, buyers give

seminars on product knowledge, and other home office associates review

direction in categories like marketing, operations, and personnel. General

sessions include presentations by outside speakers on leadership and by

senior management on company performance and the direction for the

company for the upcoming months and the rest of the year. These are

motivational experiences for everyone, and culture is woven into most every

part of the program.

Meetings are not the only time in which we communicate our culture.

Quarterly, several members of senior management, including the CEO, go

into the television studio and send a televised broadcast to the stores, which is

shown in our break rooms to share with all associates the state of the

company. The broadcasts—spontaneous, humorous, and informal—are a fun

way to let all associates in on the attitude and culture of the company.

The Saturday meeting might be the specific time in the week when Wal-

Mart does its most important work as a company.

The Saturday Morning Meeting

When I first joined the company, I learned that all management in the

home office gathered in a small meeting room in the back corner of the

warehouse at 7:30 AM for the Saturday morning meeting.

I’ll never forget my first Saturday morning meeting. After we covered

sales, Sam went row by row to see if anyone had anything he or she wanted

to say, and to my surprise, many of the associates did.

A manager from the construction department stood up and said that he had

been at one of our stores being built in Texas. He pointed out that we were

well ahead of our construction schedule in that town and that we had pulled

even with a competitor who had started building a unit in the same town

much earlier. He told the merchandise team that if it could ship the

merchandise early to our store, we could open before our competitor did.

That blew my mind. My experience was that construction people were

interested only in building a building. But there was a Wal-Mart associate

who was interested in beating the competition.

The Saturday morning meeting made it possible for this construction

manager to see all aspects of the business we were in and understand that we

weren’t building buildings—we were running stores. It also made it possible

for him to educate us on his side of the business and really make a difference

in our success. Needless to say, we did get the merchandise to the store early,

and we did open before our competitor. How many companies are such well-

oiled, tightly connected machines? That little story is a great example of how

someone experienced and passed on the Wal-Mart culture to others, and how

everyone was involved in the success of the stores.

As our company grew, we had to move the location of our meeting and

eventually built a new auditorium. Along with our growth came other

advances. Our Information-Systems Division (ISD), for example, continued

to upgrade the information we received on sales and expenses for the past

week. Sales reports listing numbers for each store and club around the world

as of Friday evening at midnight were in the hands of senior leaders by 5:00

AM for their review before the meeting. ISD displayed a recap of sales by

region and division on a screen in the meeting room for everyone to see. With

these added elements of efficiency in place, we discussed individual store and

club results on an exception basis—spending time only on the significant

variances in performance—and made decisions regarding action that

management may need to take.

Probably the most well-known symbol of the Wal-Mart culture is the Wal-Mart cheer.

For anyone who may not have heard the cheer, it goes like this:

Someone in front says: The group responds:

"Give me a W" "W"

"Give me an A" "A"

"Give me an L" "L"

"Give me a squiggly" "Squiggly"

"Give me an M" "M"

"Give me an A" "A"

"Give me an R" "R"

"Give me a T" "T"

"What does that spell?" "WAL-MART"

"I can’t hear you!" "WAL-MART"

"Whose Wal-Mart is it?" "It's my WAL-MART"

"Who's number one?" "The customer! Always! Umph!"

What in the world is a squiggly? First of all, it’s a substitute for the hyphen.Second, it is a

body action of bending the knees as if you are sitting down at the same time that you move

your bent arms in a backward and forward motion. It adds some motion and fun to the cheer.

This cheer is the standard beginning and ending of most every meeting in Wal-Mart. For