SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Motivation
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for engaging employees, including treating them with respect, providing opportunities for improvement, and sharing company profits.
KEYWORDS: employee engagement, leadership approach, profit sharing, performance improvement, organizational culture
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

of other good companies have demonstrated that it can be done. But it won’t

happen just because you want it to. Like everything else that is worthwhile,

you have to work at it.

How Do Employees Become Engaged?

The point of this chapter so far has been to say that the way to engage the

people in your organization begins with treating them right: giving them

respect and dignity, genuinely caring about them as individuals, and telling

them that they are important to the success of your organization (because

they are). I guarantee that by doing these things, you can improve the

operation of your business many times over—you can raise the 29 percent

that are engaged in an average company to 50 percent or higher and cut the

not-engaged and the disengaged numbers in half.

But how does that kind of atmosphere get started? First of all, it is very

important to understand that it is the responsibility of leadership to set the

tone in an organization and provide the environment for success; it’s not the

responsibility of your people to become more engaged. You certainly can’t

tell people to become more engaged and expect that they will.

What we have found to be most effective at Wal-Mart is to change the

attitude and approach of leadership, not initiate some big, official program.

Begin by embracing the fact that your people really are important and can

make a difference in your business if given the chance. If that is true, then the

question is: How can we make that happen—how do we give our people the

opportunity to improve our business?

I remember visiting a store in south Georgia years ago. I walked through

the store and visited with all the people, as I normally did. After I had

finished covering my observations with the management team about how the

store might improve, an assistant manager pulled me aside and said, “Thank

you for telling us how to improve our store rather then telling us all of the

things we’re doing wrong.”

They didn’t need me to come in and tell them they were out of stock in a

category of merchandise—they already knew that. What they needed was

encouragement and practical advice on how they could correct problems and

improve their operation. When I left that store in Georgia, I felt confident

they would be motivated to correct the problems—not depressed because

they had been chewed out.

Profit Sharing and Other Incentives

Sam and Bud weren’t content with just using words to tell associates how

much they were valued—they wanted to show all of the associates how much

Sam and Bud appreciated their many accomplishments. They decided that the

best way would be to share the company profits with them. In 1971, the Wal-

Mart profit-sharing plan came into existence. All associates who had been

with the company a year or longer had a percent of their annual pay put into

profit-sharing accounts for them. The percent was the same no matter what

positions they held. The program remains to this day and has been marvelous

for the associates.

Shortly after developing the profit-sharing program, Sam and Bud decided

that it would be great if they could make it possible for all associates to own

Wal-Mart stock in order to grow with the company—with no hassles, no fees,

and true to Sam’s vision, at a discount price. So they put in place a program

for all associates to buy Wal-Mart stock through a payroll-deduction plan.

They could choose to set aside any amount of money and have it invested in

company stock at a discounted price and not have to pay any brokerage fees.

Over the years, thousands and thousands of associates—consistently more

than 50 percent of all Wal-Mart associates—have taken advantage of this

plan as a way to share in the growth of the company.

Through the years,Wal-Mart leadership added numerous benefit plans, as

well as cash incentive plans to make it possible for associates to receive

additional income based on the performance of their stores, clubs,

distribution centers, dispatch offices, and the entire company. Management

added all of these programs to reward the associates for their performance

and the success of the company, which fostered a greater sense of

engagement and involvement.

Where Do Tomorrow’s Leaders Come From?

We want all levels of Wal-Mart associates to be as engaged as possible,

including and not least of all, our management team. In order to prepare

management talent for a growing company, we came up with a simple plan to

grow our own management team. We believed in and followed the practice of

promoting from within. This does not mean that we didn’t hire anyone from

outside the company—we sprinkled some in to meet specific needs and also

recruited from college and university campuses. But we always encouraged

our hourly associates to consider the opportunity to move into management.

Candidates for promotion needed to be ambitious, work hard, learn their jobs,

be team players, live out the culture, and demonstrate leadership ability.

We also believed in what I will call “cross-pollination.” That meant that

promotional opportunities weren’t limited to one’s store or department but

included other areas of the company, including logistics, Sam’s Club,

Neighborhood Markets, or the International Division. This expanded the

opportunities for advancement within the company immensely and was a

great motivational tool for our associates. We wanted our associates to grow

and be all that they could be.

As a result of our policy of in-house promotion, over three-quarters of the

men and women managing Wal-Mart stores today began as hourly associates

with the company. I know of no other company that even comes close to

accomplishing a feat like that.

Responsibility for Self-Development

If an organization plans to promote people from within on a continuing

basis, the associates need help in developing their God-given talent. In 1983,

we launched the Walton Institute for the purpose of helping all levels of