SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Technology and Business Operations
SUMMARY: The text discusses how technology can improve business operations and benefit customers, while emphasizing the importance of committed employees.
KEYWORDS: technology, business operations, cost efficiency, customer focus, employee commitment
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Coming full circle, technology is a powerful tool in building a successful organization, but we can’t accomplish anything great without the commitment of our people.

The Real Impact of Technology on Prices

In recent decades,Wal-Mart has done about as much to advance the economic life of the nation’s poor people as any other institution in the nation. The nation’s poor benefit greatly from access to low-priced goods. After all, the problem of poverty is the problem of not   having enough money relative to the prices of needed goods. Imagine the joy of a poor single mother who can finally afford a high-quality new winter coat for a ten-year-old daughter.

Imagine the poor family who can buy Christmas presents for each of their three children because twenty dollars buys three decent toys at Wal-Mart. Wal-Mart offers lower prices not because it uses factories in China (other stores use the same factories); not because it pays lower wages than other stores; but because its huge investment in information and communications technology allows it to match its wholesale purchases more carefully and quickly to consumer demand, avoiding waste and greatly lowering its costs.2

For reflection and action:

How would you rate your personal use of the various tools and resources you have available to you? Do you make things harder than they have to be?

The first rule of any technology used in a business is that automation applied to an efficient

operation will magnify the efficiency. The second is that automation applied to an inefficient operation will magnify the inefficiency.

—Bill Gates

How effective do you feel your company is in the use of technology?

Do you feel that you’ve personally maximized the use of technology in your responsibility areas?

What are some simple, practical ways you could improve your decision making by a better approach to acquiring and processing information?

Chapter 9

Reinventing the Supply Chain

You will not find it difficult to prove that battles, campaigns, and even wars have been won or lost primarily because of logistics.

—General Dwight D. Eisenhower

Wal-Mart Way Principle #9

The most basic operations in your company represent tremendous opportunities for improvement, growth, and savings. Don’t overlook the obvious.

Wal-Mart grew into the largest company in the world out of one man’s vision to improve the standard of living for millions of everyday people. He helped this cause by treating his team with respect and dignity—and they have always worked hard for Sam and his company. He kept the customer as his number-one priority, even passing on savings in the form of price reductions that many thought cut too deeply into margins. He built a culture of enthusiasm, hard work, and integrity. He tirelessly inspected what he expected, spending major portions of his workweek on the road and in his stores. He never stopped learning and growing. Early on, he recognized the potential of technology to support his company’s vision, customers, and associates—and began a pattern of significant investment. He passed on his way of thinking and doing—the Wal-Mart Way—to a new generation of leaders who have stayed true to Sam’s mandates.

Sam saw the grand picture, but he never lost sight of the details big or small. Nowhere was this more evident than in the area of logistics, which, hand in hand with Wal-Mart’s use of technology, allowed the company to blow past competitors in areas of cost, real-time management of merchandise, and customer satisfaction.

Logistics is a term borrowed from the military, which refers to the acquisition and the movement of materials for the troops. It has been used in retailing for quite some time. It is basically the flow of merchandise from the manufacturer’s dock to the retail counter. That sounds simple enough—so why would I put logistics on the list of major factors and core competencies impacting the success of Wal-Mart? Sure, there may be minor savings, but isn’t logistics a finite process that doesn’t really add top-line growth to the company’s financial sheet? And doesn’t every retailer have the same set of issues to deal with, which is basically moving boxes from point A to point B? How different can you really make a warehouse look and work?

In the past, retailers and manufacturers alike looked at logistics as simply a necessary evil—moving merchandise on trucks to stores. No glamour, no real opportunity or need for dramatic improvement, and certainly not an area to invest top management’s time on.

But at Wal-Mart, in the same way we approached other details, we never accepted logistics as just another function to be performed in the business. We didn’t accept that the way it was being done was necessarily the best way, and we believed that we could dramatically improve the entire process. Sam set a way of thinking in motion, and none of us quit challenging the traditional methods. Obviously, since everyday low prices were a major part of our customer satisfaction strategy, logistics presented a logical expense category to attack. Beyond the money-saving aspect, though, and just as importantly, we believed that this was another way to improve service to our stores and another way to separate ourselves from our competition.

Working with Suppliers to Create a Seamless Flow

One important element that all companies in the retail industry—and industry in general—had neglected was the potential of working more closely with suppliers to develop a win-win-win situation for stores, the suppliers, and the customers. By cautiously opening the door to that thinking, Wal- Mart’s view of distribution and logistics expanded to include our suppliers and has become what we call the “supply chain”—a term that is now common in the industry.