SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses Walmart's vision and strategy for expanding into supercenters, combining food and general merchandise in a one-stop shopping experience.
KEYWORDS: vision, expansion, supercenters, one-stop shopping, growth strategy
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

While many talk about staying true to a vision, I firmly believe that Sam possessed—and instilled in his entire team—the discipline of vision: honestly evaluating yourself and your work today in light of what you want to be tomorrow.

So from a single store, to a regional chain of discount stores in small-town America, to a launch of wholesale clubs in metropolitan markets, the Wal- Mart vision continued to grow. And never content with the status quo, Sam continued to push us to better meet the needs of customers.

The Vision Grows—Supercenters Are Born

Our success with selling food in Sam’s was a good indicator that we could do it in other settings. If it worked so well in Sam’s, why not try food in Wal- Mart stores? We could make it even more convenient for our customers by creating a one-stop shopping experience. No need to drive around town for all your household needs—do it all in Wal-Mart, with everyday low prices on your food as well as your general merchandise.

David Glass and I hit the road again, this time up to Grand Rapids, Michigan, to visit a wonderful “combination store”—commonplace today, but revolutionary in the early eighties—founded and run by Fred Mejeirs. He was a great merchant, particularly in food, a category in which he had a strong background. Mejeirs had been successfully operating combination stores in Michigan for some time. It was obvious that his stores were doing a great deal of business. We were also impressed with the many service shops

they had at the front of the stores to serve a wide array of their customers’ needs—from banking to family photos to hairstyling. It was on that trip that we decided that we could do the same thing in Wal-Mart.

Sam knew how to see the big picture—how to think big. But he also knew how to bag groceries, reload receipt paper, and greet customers—do whatever it took to take his vision as far as it could go. When was the last time you rolled up your sleeves and engaged in the frontline activities of your company?

We had a lot to learn about food and how to operate such a large store profitably. Our first experiment consisted of erecting two enormous buildings

—similar in concept to a European-style “hypermarket”—in Dallas, Texas, and Kansas City,Missouri. Frankly, we overbuilt our Hypermarts and spent too much on them. We were able to generate more sales than we ever had in a Wal-Mart store, but we struggled to produce a profit because we had too much overhead.

We debated whether we could fine-tune the Hypermart model and make it successful; we finally decided to trim it back and build our first Supercenter in Washington, Missouri. It was far from perfect and needed a lot of work, but it was a great beginning. We built the Supercenters with both food and general merchandise under the same roof and included a number of service shops up front. We loved the concept, and better yet, our customers loved it. We did have a lot of growing pains, however, and had to develop the concept for several years before we began to expand.

We refused to move ahead until we were confident that the Supercenter was right for our customers. Each new version of the store was better than the last, and by the end of 1991 we began to aggressively insert Supercenters into our overall growth plans. Once again, we learned from our competition, experimented, and greatly expanded our opportunity.

The Vision Grows—The International Division Is Born

If our model worked so well in America, why not try it in another country? In 1991, we developed a relationship with Cifra, the most outstanding retailer in Mexico. Again, we had a lot to learn and suffered setbacks and

disappointments along the way. For example, the leaders in Cifra did not believe that everyday low prices would work in Mexico. They were convinced that their customers were too accustomed to special pricing that showed up in the regular circulars. They did not want to depart from their high/low pricing strategy. They found it difficult to accept that a marketing strategy that worked in the U.S. would work equally as well with the customers in Mexico. In their minds, it would be costly to change the overall pricing strategy with too much risk involved. Several years later, when the leadership embraced this change, it had a dramatic impact on sales. To this day they continue to see growing sales.

But more importantly, we persevered. I believe we persevered because we were still captivated by a vision: improving the standard of living for everyday people through great products at the lowest prices. We learned the unique preferences of our customers in other countries and worked hard to serve those customers by blending the Wal-Mart culture with the culture of each separate country. While we may do many things differently country by country, we will not sacrifice our beliefs or values. Customers and associates all across the world want to be treated with respect and dignity, to be a part of something that is bigger than themselves.

In the succeeding years we became a global company by venturing into other countries. Today the International Division has continued to grow with excellent results. We have developed an amazing team of leaders from all over the world who have truly embraced the Wal-Mart Way and who are contributing significantly to the sales and profitability of the company. They are continually sharing the best practices and merchandising ideas between countries, which in turn makes each one better. For example, the chain in Great Britain taught us to effectively display more food products, and we have worked with them to develop a brand name for clothes that they have used for years in Great Britain—George. Since its introduction into the U.S. market, sales have been excellent.