SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Corporate Culture Maintenance
SUMMARY: The text discusses how Walmart maintained and shared its unique corporate culture with new employees and markets through leadership training, speaker events, and regular cultural discussions.
KEYWORDS: corporate culture, leadership development, new market expansion, employee onboarding, communication strategy
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

heritage.

From time to time, we invited an outside speaker to share his or her leadership principles with us. These people’s comments tended to reinforce the Wal-Mart principles and had a powerful effect coming from well- respected leaders outside our company. We invited some very well-known public figures, such as legendary stock market investor Warren Buffet, former U.S. Congressman Newt Gingrich, and General Tommy Franks, as well as the CEOs of many leading companies in the U.S. such as Herb Kelleher of Southwest Airlines and John Pepper of Procter & Gamble.

Our suppliers sometimes invited celebrities and sports figures to come and speak to the group, including such people as Mary Lou Retton, Don Shula, Hank Aaron, Nolan Ryan, Joe Montana, and Dan Marino. Musicians Marie Osmond, Amy Grant, and Steven Curtis Chapman came and entertained the associates and often shared their personal life principles with us as well. It was always exciting to have such prominent figures come and speak to us, but it was also a learning experience. Can you imagine getting all of these people to come to Bentonville, Arkansas, at 7:30 on a Saturday morning for any other reason than to speak to Wal-Mart leaders?

We’re always looking for new ways to define and maintain our culture. A number of years ago—as a matter of fact, right after Sam passed away—we dedicated the first Saturday of every month to discussing and reinforcing our culture. We selected one or more of our management associates from different departments throughout the company to prepare a presentation for all home office management associates. We gave these individuals a topic several weeks in advance and asked them to share their understanding of that aspect of our culture. These sessions proved to be a constant refreshment and reminder for those associates who had been a part of the company for a long time, and they also served as a learning experience and encouragement for new associates who had recently joined Wal-Mart.

How do you keep the culture of a company alive and well? It does not happen by osmosis. You communicate, communicate, communicate—any way you can and as frequently as you can in words and in actions.

Sharing Culture in a New Market

How can a company open well over three hundred new stores and clubs every year in new markets across the country, hire four hundred to five hundred new associates in each of the stores and another two hundred associates in each of the clubs, set up and open the new units in five weeks or less, and at the same time perpetuate the culture with all those new associates?

Now add to those numbers the opening of ten to twelve new automated distribution centers averaging 1.2 million square feet, and then hiring and training five hundred to six hundred new associates for each of those centers. Be assured it takes a lot of hard work, coordination, communication—and intentionality. Here’s how it is done in a Wal-Mart store or club, and similarly in one of the new distribution centers:

Pick the right person to be the manager.

Support that person with an experienced team.

Hire the right people.

Explain to each person what is expected of him or her as a part of his or her training.

Make the setup fun.

Demonstrate the culture by action from day one.

Work hard.

Wal-Mart doesn’t hire store managers from the outside. The only associates chosen to run a new store are ones who have been with the company long enough to demonstrate that they are capable, care about people, and understand and embrace the Wal-Mart culture.

In addition to the store manager, assistant store managers from other stores are selected to become a part of the support staff for each new store.

Frequently, a few experienced department managers and store associates from neighboring stores choose to move to the new store, in many cases being promoted to new positions.

The next step is to select a small group of assistant managers and

department managers from other stores to come in for the first four to five weeks to be part of the training of newly hired associates for the new store. These trainers are experienced Wal-Mart associates for the most part, but the training experience sharpens them as well.

The final part of the support staff in every new store is a team called Store Planning, comprised of dedicated, hardworking, and enthusiastic specialists in new store openings. There may be only three to five members of the Store Planning team in every store, but they are pivotal in getting the store off the ground.

These associates travel from one new store to another and spend approximately six weeks in each location. Their primary responsibility is to coordinate all activities associated with opening the store. When they arrive on location, they walk into a completely empty building. They assist the store management and the visiting assistant managers in hiring all new associates, training them, setting up all fixtures, unpacking and placing all merchandise on the shelves, pricing the merchandise, putting up all signage, and seeing to a myriad of other details that give the manager a chance to hit the ground running. As important as their responsibility for details, however, from day one, they begin the process of sharing the Wal-Mart values and culture with the new associates not only verbally but, more importantly, by their actions.