SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Organizational Culture Sustainability
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of strong leadership in sustaining a company's culture, which can decay over time due to prosperity and success.
KEYWORDS: organizational culture, leadership, values, corporate success, culture renewal
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Sustaining the Culture

John Gardner, whom I quoted at the beginning of the chapter, says: “Values always decay over time. Societies that keep their values alive do so not by escaping the process of decay, but by the powerful processes of regeneration.”

Three Essentials for Leadership

The key to a strong and meaningful culture is strong leadership. The task of developing and sustaining a company culture cannot be delegated—it is too important! While there are many things that leaders can do to emphasize the importance of the culture of a company, three things are essential.

Leaders must unequivocally believe in the culture themselves.

Leaders must be visible role models to all their people—in other words, leaders must “walk their talk.”

Leaders must constantly remind people what the values really mean in the workplace, to show what these values actually look like and how they are put into practice every day on the job.

When I first read this statement, I didn’t like the way it sounded. In fact, I took it personally. You mean that in Wal-Mart we can’t keep our focus on what made us successful in the past? Wait a second—why do values have to decay? I don’t understand that. I don’t agree with that.

But then it hit me. Look at our own culture in America. I think a serious decay of shared values has occurred over the past quarter of a century, a process that seems to have accelerated in the last ten to fifteen years. There no longer seems to be common ground on what is right and what is wrong. Absolutes have become blurred at best.

Why? Why would values decay over time? I think several things threaten a value system. In America, perhaps the single biggest issue is our own success. We are part of the most prosperous generation and society in history.

Prosperity leads to materialism, which leads to a strong desire to get more for ourselves—selfishness. Our selfishness causes us get so wrapped up in our own needs, wants, and issues that we forget about others. Tragically, when we forget about others, we often drift away from our core values.

In the same sense, I think that in the corporate world, success can tempt us to think that we accomplished great things primarily on the basis of our own personal talent and brilliance. The value system that brought us to a point of success is no longer relevant or important. In recent years, we have seen too many corporations, which seemingly had a sound set of values in the past, somehow lose their way. Corporate prosperity has caused us to forget to renew our values. The temptation is to let prosperity erode both personal and corporate values, and this is why I agree wholeheartedly with the cliché: “The only thing more dangerous than failure is success.” Too easily, we become self-satisfied, self-reliant, and arrogant.

Gardner also states,“Each generation must rediscover the living elements of its own tradition and adapt them to present realities. To assist in that process of rediscovery is one of the tasks of leadership.”And many in executive offices and boardrooms have overlooked this task. We’ve got to help people rediscover sound values in our own organizations and in our society.

The Golden Rule

The longer I was with Wal-Mart, the more I realized how fortunate I was to be a part of a company whose standards were high—a company where leadership believed that values were to be maintained despite all circumstances, where I could blend my own values with the values that the company believed in. In fact, in all my time with Wal-Mart, no one ever even suggested that I do anything that was in conflict with my own spiritual values. I’m not saying that Wal-Mart is a Christian company, but I can unequivocally say that Sam founded the company on the Judeo-Christian principles found in the Bible. While we had a diverse workforce that included followers of the Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, Buddhist, Hindu, Islamic, and other religions, the Golden Rule was the basis of how we expected people to behave and how everyone should expect to be treated. That meant that

everyone understood what was right and what was wrong in interpersonal relationships. There were absolutes. There was no confusion on those issues.

Sam understood that if you want to lead a company that exceeds the expectations of the rest of the business world and accomplish your dreams, you better set the bar high. He set high standards in his personal life and for the company—he did not abdicate his role as a leader to perpetuate good values.

I stated up front in this chapter that Wal-Mart’s competitive advantage is not just merchandising and pricing strategies, but our culture. How about your company? Is your corporate culture preparing you to reach your full potential?

So leadership, true leadership, is always about struggle. It is about two things: one, having values, and two, being willing to fight for those values. If you want to be a leader you must have values, a set of beliefs, convictions, and ideals—a vision for your country, your community, and your business. You must be willing to step into the arena and fight for those values, for that “worthy cause.”

—Benjamin Netanyahu, Former Prime Minister of Israel

Sam’s Can-Do Hula Dance