SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Community Involvement and Diversity
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart supports various organizations and events that represent the ethnic diversity of its associates, customers, and communities.
KEYWORDS: community involvement, diversity, partnerships, minority organizations
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

• Wal-Mart supports many organizations and events that represent the ethnic

diversity of our associates, customers, and communities both nationally

and at the local level. Partnerships include the National Association for the

Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), Congressional Black Caucus,

the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, National Council of La Raza,Mexican

American Legal Defense and Education Fund, United Negro College Fund,

as well as other community-based organizations committed to improving

the quality of life for all members of our communities.

For reflection and action:

1. Does your company—do you—consider giving important? Why or why

not?

2. Has anyone ever helped you at a time when you needed it? What did that

teach you about service and need?

3. Are there any issues that are particularly important to you and your

company—any people you feel particularly passionate about helping?

What would it take to mobilize your organization to get involved?

4. What can you personally do for someone today? What can you do to move

your company toward a more compassionate attitude?

Conclusion

Scaling New Heights:

The Future for Wal-Mart

This thing we’ve got going with our company and our people is so gratifying to me that I find

it very easy to be enthusiastic about our future and to be optimistic about what we can

accomplish together.

—Sam Walton

E

arly in 2002, the official announcement was made from Bentonville,

Arkansas:Wal-Mart was now recognized as the largest company in the world.

It was greeted with great fanfare—and I’m sure just a little incredulity—by

the media worldwide. Even though I knew we were close to achieving that

milestone, and the press release came as no real surprise, I was still utterly

amazed. What a journey! We had scaled the heights of the corporate world,

and now we could stop for a moment and survey the magnificent view. Or

could we?

Recently as I thought about what’s next for Wal-Mart, I was pleased—and

challenged—to read the following editorial comment by Good to Great

author, Jim Collins, in Fast Company magazine, which I thought powerfully

captured the “state of the union” for Wal-Mart:

If current growth rates hold up, the company that Sam Walton built will become the world’s

first trillion dollar business within a decade. Far fetched?Perhaps. It is entirely possible for a

company to grow to 1.4 million people and retain much of the vibrant culture and sense of

purpose created by its entrepreneurial founder. I must admit, I hadn’t thought it was

possible. By the time most companies reach $10 or $20 billion in revenue, they have long ago

lost the entrepreneurial zeal that fueled them in the first place. By $50 billion, they have gone

fully corporate, and their very success has made them complacent, dull, and slow. The usual

story is what was once a fast company—in its attitude, its values, its spirit, its execution—

eventually succumbs to inertia and spirals into a doom loop of mediocrity. Yet if anything,

1

Wal-Mart is gaining momentum.

I was reminded that even if we had scaled a mighty mountain, now was no

time for Wal-Mart to rest on its laurels and enjoy the scenery. Why? I believe

that some of the very the best chapters in the Wal-Mart story are not yet

written—but are to come in the days ahead. Wal-Mart truly is gaining

momentum. It will continue to grow at a powerful pace for the foreseeable

future. The story is not finished. It’s true—there are more mountains to

climb.

Consider that Wal-Mart’s aggressive growth and capital investment

strategy for fiscal year 2005 includes adding 320 to 345 new stores in the

United States alone. The company will add more than 50 million square feet

of new retail space, an increase of more than 8 percent. The growth rate for

new stores and retail space in the international arena will be much greater.

I believe the future has never looked brighter for Wal-Mart than today. But

that success will only be achieved . . .

• as long as the leadership and associates remain true to the vision that Sam

had of serving others.

• as long as we don’t let our success go to our heads and believe that we are

invincible, that success will just magically continue as we float along

effortlessly, or that we are somehow entitled to success.

• as long as we don’t become arrogant and let our egos get in the way of the

job that needs to be done.

• as long as we continue to treat everyone with respect and dignity, no matter

what their title or position may be.

• as long as we remember that we are family and that it takes all of us to

succeed.

• as long as we never betray our values and continue to uphold them, no

matter what it costs in short-term sales or profits.

• as long as we fight to keep our unique culture alive every hour of every day.

• as long as we remember that the only one “boss” in Wal-Mart is the

customer—every single one of them—and that they are the reason we are

in business.

• as long as we continue to provide value to those customers by offering

quality merchandise at everyday low prices.

• as long as we don’t focus on the weaknesses of others—but on continually

improving ourselves.

• as long as we continue to look for large and small ways to improve our

operations and logistics, while driving out unnecessary costs.

I know that such bold talk may turn some people off because it sounds too

simple, perhaps a little trite, and for sure quite arrogant. (Of course, I don’t

think Sir Edmund Hillary would have reached the summit of Mt. Everest

were it not for bit of boldness.) I confess that I like to keep things simple, and

I never want to be trite or arrogant. But I feel justified in being so

straightforward in these closing pages because the Wal-Mart record stands