SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Disaster Response and Community Support
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's exemplary disaster response and community support efforts, which have earned customer loyalty and trust.
KEYWORDS: disaster response, community support, customer loyalty, crisis management, retail strategy
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

lifeline of everyday supplies flowed without interruption. Many people in the

town believed that this was a more significant contribution toward their

recovery than any money and goods that Wal-Mart donated.

One year later, the construction was complete, and we had an exciting

grand reopening. During that year, with one-third of the store gone, we never

had a week when the sales in that store were less than the year before. The

customers were amazed at Wal-Mart’s efforts, especially Sam’s special

interest in the project, and they became loyal believers in Wal-Mart. When

the rebuilt store opened, the sales skyrocketed and continued to grow at an

accelerated rate for years. The customers were grateful for what Wal-Mart

did in their time of need and rewarded Wal-Mart with their continued loyalty.

When you demonstrate genuine care for people, they care for you.

Thus began a dramatic recovery-response program that is still in operation

today. Whenever and wherever a disaster strikes (be it a tornado, hurricane,

flood, fire, or anything else), the local Wal-Mart will always be at the front of

rescue and recovery efforts. A Disaster Recovery team moves into action and

has critically needed merchandise on the way to the scene of the disaster

within twenty-four hours. From our experiences, we have developed a list of

150 to 200 items that people desperately need in the immediate aftermath of a

disaster: mops, pails, garbage cans and bags, brooms, chain saws, fuel, camp

stoves, sleeping bags, bottled water, dog food, baby formula, disposable

diapers, and so forth. We do everything we possibly can to expedite getting

the right merchandise into the right hands at the right time.

Many of our suppliers participate with us on this and in many cases reduce

their cost to us on the most critical items. We pass this cost reduction directly

on to our customers, and we even reduce the prices on many other items to

help our customers in their time of real need. Frequently, we will bring trailer

loads of water into our parking lots and distribute it to people free of charge.

If our store is damaged, we work around the clock by bringing in associates

from other stores who take shifts in order to reopen it safely as soon as

possible. When a local store’s recovery is completed so quickly, where do

you think the customers in that area are going to do their regular shopping

when the crisis is over?

In the Denver, Colorado, area, after that terrible shooting at Columbine

High School, students initially couldn’t return to their own school and were

temporarily transferred to another school. The associates in our Wal-Mart

stores in the immediate area decided that since those students couldn’t get to

their lockers in Columbine and likely needed supplies, they would help.

“Why don’t we provide them with backpacks, pencils, paper, and whatever

other school supplies they might need? For free?”

They went to their store managers with a plan to donate the needed

supplies; the managers were happy to be part of the plan. They set up a big

tent in the Wal-Mart parking lot to assemble the packages for these high-

school students. As a result, all of the Columbine students got their needed

supplies when they went back to school—all orchestrated by our associates

out there. Wal-Mart took it one step further when it sent five or six

counselors from Resources for Living, at Wal-Mart’s expense, to counsel

with students and parents in their grief. This is another example of people

really caring about other people. In truth, no matter what business you may

be in, it’s all about people and relationships.

You Are More Important Than a Frying Pan

Customer satisfaction is not a matter of policies and procedures. It is about

principles that are written on the hearts of all members of the team so that

they know instinctively how to act.

I have my favorite story on customer service. Her story went something

like this:

I want to tell you about your store manager in Harlingen, Texas. I want to tell you what he

did for me. I was shopping in your store and spent a lot of money.I had a great deal of

merchandise, including an electric frying pan. When I loaded my cart, it didn’t all fit in so I

laid the frying pan at the bottom of my cart. When I went to my car and unloaded all of the

bags, I must have forgotten about the frying pan because when I got home, it wasn’t in the

car. I must have left it on your cart. I called the store and asked a lady there if anyone had

turned it in or had found it. I then asked if someone would check in the carts in the parking

lot. She said she would get back to me. About fifteen or twenty minutes later, a man called me

and said he was the store manager. They had looked all over and hadn’t found the frying

pan. He asked me to come down and tell him about it and show him what pan she was talking

about. He said in the meantime, maybe we will find it. He said, “Just ask for me—my name is

Pete Maldonado.” I went back to the store and found Maldonado standing right by the front

door. He took me over to the frying pan display and asked which one was it. I pointed out to

him which one it was, and he handed it to me and said, “Please take this with Wal-Mart’s

compliments.” I said, “Wait a minute. This wasn’t your fault, it was my fault. You don’t need

to do that.”He repeated, “Please, take it with Wal-Mart’s compliments.” So I said to him,

“Why would you give me the frying pan when it wasn’t even your mistake?”And he said,

“You are more important to us than a frying pan.”