SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Supply Chain Management
SUMMARY: Wal-Mart's efforts to improve its supply chain by working closely with suppliers, building distribution centers, and implementing automation and replenishment systems.
KEYWORDS: supply chain, distribution system, supplier relationships, logistics, automation
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don_Editable Format.docx]

Working with Suppliers to Create a Seamless Flow

One important element that all companies in the retail industry—and industry in general—had neglected was the potential of working more closely with suppliers to develop a win-win-win situation for stores, the suppliers, and the customers. By cautiously opening the door to that thinking, Wal- Mart’s view of distribution and logistics expanded to include our suppliers and has become what we call the “supply chain”—a term that is now common in the industry.

Over the years, Wal-Mart has made many significant contributions to this supply-chain concept. Our logistics team has done a masterful job of improving our own internal processing and flowing of merchandise to our stores, and we have accomplished similar dynamics in creating a seamless flow between supplier and retailer through cooperation and coordination. We actually went beyond what our suppliers were doing to ship merchandise to us, examining and then making many changes to the entire relationship. In both the internal and the external arenas, the changes Wal-Mart implemented have been dramatic and the impact significant. All of their logistics developments have their own unique stories, but as they happened on parallel tracks, they are clearly intertwined.

Improving the In-House Distribution System

While many of the steps we took to improve our efficiencies within our in- house distribution system were cutting-edge and revolutionary, the overall process was gradual and evolutionary:

Phase 1:We built and operated our own warehouses to receive merchandise in order to redistribute that merchandise to our stores.

Phase 2: Next, we began to store some merchandise as a backup for our stores to order directly from our warehouses, instead of ordering from our suppliers.

Phase 3: Then we began to implement mechanization and automation, eventually converting these warehouses into full-line distribution centers complete with inventory replenishment and control systems.

Phase 4: Finally, we became a model of a vertically integrated supply chain, complete with automatic replenishment for our stores’ inventories as well as comanaged inventories with many of our suppliers.

Some of these things happened almost by accident as the logistics team simply sought to fulfill the constant objective of more effectively and efficiently serving our stores so that they could, in turn, serve our customers better than any other retailer. We were open and willing to do whatever it

took to make that objective a living reality. Although you will clearly see the emphasis we placed on internal efficiencies and streamlining costs in the distribution centers, it is important to understand that there were many times that we had to spend extra dollars in the distribution centers in order to save time dollars at the store level. As was the case with technology, we had to weigh tough decisions on the basis of making sure that new expenses were, in fact, investments. That consistently was the case, and this evolution of the internal functions of our supply chain further aided productivity gains in the stores and helped us reduce prices to our customers even more, in keeping with the Wal-Mart vision.

Success by Necessity

We started out by opening small warehouses and ended up reinventing the entire supply-chain concept in the retail industry. In the early years, the development of a warehouse system to receive, store, and ship merchandise to our stores was basically a necessity. Our stores were in small, rural markets, and the store managers could order only limited quantities of thousands of items of merchandise. Suppliers had the expected problems in shipping so many small orders to this new and growing chain in Arkansas, and it was almost impossible to maintain a continuous flow of merchandise to our stores.

Even if you are on the right track, you’ll get run over if you just sit there.

—Will Rogers

Transporting goods to our stores via big trucking companies was also problematic. The trucking companies didn’t have many loads to send to our markets, so they sent the merchandise to consolidators who then held the merchandise in a warehouse until they had a large enough load to make it economical to make a delivery to the small towns and businesses in a given geographical area. In addition to costing us a premium, this system also caused major time delays and stores ran out of merchandise frequently, which was completely contrary to Sam’s desire to satisfy his customers.

The First Warehouse

In order to deal with this problem, Sam leased a small building in downtown Bentonville, Arkansas, and literally became his own consolidator. Not that we were strangers to financial risk, but initially leasing the warehouse added cost to the operation without any assurance that there would be payback, which created a significant amount of worry for such a small company. Fortunately, the risk paid off in the form of greater efficiency and greater customer satisfaction, and therefore in profits.

The next step was to stock some of the staple items in the warehouse and let the store associates order these items directly from the warehouse instead of from the manufacturer. This also worked extremely well and represented the dawn of the Wal-Mart distribution system. We drew even closer to the full-line distribution center in 1970, when Sam built a modest headquarters in Bentonville that provided both warehouse and office space. As the company grew and more stores were added, Wal-Mart built and operated additional warehouses in the areas where the stores were being opened.

At any point in time, there are numerous experiments under way, and many of them result in new systems that improve productivity and service. Wal-Mart culture has helped us to avoid the temptation to believe that “we have arrived.” We are always acutely aware that we still have a lot more to learn.