SOURCE: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT
TOPIC: Business Partnerships
SUMMARY: The text discusses how Walmart and Procter & Gamble overcame trust issues to develop a mutually beneficial business relationship.
KEYWORDS: business partnerships, trust, cooperation, communication, data sharing
---

[Document: Wal-Mart Way - Soderquist Don.pdf]

if the two companies could reach some common ground.

Life is much less a competitive struggle for survival than a triumph of cooperation and creativity.

—Fritjof Capra

As a side note, this momentous meeting almost didn’t happen. John

Pepper, also a former CEO of P&G, shared with me an incident that occurred

several days before the meeting was to take place. Sam called John Smale

and suggested that we probably couldn’t make the trip because it was going

to cost too much. It so happened that the hotel that P&G had reserved for us

to stay in was going to cost over one hundred dollars per night, per person,

and Sam said that was too expensive. (That’s how serious Sam was about the

corporate culture of conserving costs!) Smale said he would look into the

matter and call back. Several hours later he reached Sam and said they had

found another hotel and it was only going to cost fifty-nine dollars. Sam

agreed we would come then. In truth, P&G had picked up the other half of

the bill.

With that issue resolved, Sam and five or six of us flew to Cincinnati and

spent several days reviewing the issues and discussing possible solutions. We

reached a point where we all had to agree that the basic problem was a lack of

trust. Fundamentally, we didn’t trust them, and they didn’t trust us.

The issue wasn’t the integrity of either side, but the fact that the people in

both companies were unwilling to share any company information with the

representatives of the other company. They did things their way, we did

things our way, and neither of us was even willing to consider changing. Both

companies were suspicious of the other’s goals and motives, carefully

guarding strategies or any information that we each thought represented a

competitive advantage. After all, if we told them things about our operation,

they might share that information with our competitors.

We came to the conclusion that we were not really adversaries. If the

people in both companies could be more open, communicate more

effectively, and develop more of a trust relationship, we could have a

significant positive impact on both of our businesses. Ultimately we were not

competitors; we were on the same side, both wanting to sell more of our

merchandise to our customers.

Dinner with Jack Welch and GE

The second event, which happened within a few months of our visit with

Procter & Gamble, was a dinner meeting that Sam and several of us attended

with Jack Welch and a few other General Electric (GE) executives. During

dinner,we discussed how we could simplify our business relationship. David

Glass, the Wal-Mart president and CEO, suggested that an ideal picture might

look like this:Wal-Mart would capture the sale by item at the cash register in

all stores of every item GE supplied to Wal-Mart. Based on that data, the

Wal-Mart computer would calculate and transmit an order for merchandise to

GE over the telecommunications network on Monday directly into its

computer. GE would process the order that night on its computer, fill the

order on Tuesday, and ship the merchandise to us on Wednesday. We would

receive the merchandise on Thursday, wire-transfer a check to GE on Friday,

and reconcile any differences at the end of the quarter. We agreed that this

process would require a new level of trust between the people in both of our

organizations—but it was well worth a try

When the board asked me to take over the bankrupt Fruit of the Loom, one of the first phone

calls I received was from Wal-Mart asking me what they (Wal-Mart) could do to help.

—Dennis Bookshester, CEO of Turtle Wax

Revolutionary Transformation

Today, neither of these meetings and developments sounds like a big deal.

But in the late 1980s, these were revolutionary ideas. To our knowledge, no

one had truly tested these waters on a large scale. As a result of these two

separate meetings, we eventually changed the way we transacted business

with all of our suppliers. We worked closely with Procter & Gamble and GE

to simplify the processes and enhance relationships, which started us on a

thought process of examining everything that we had done in the past with all

suppliers.

Wal-Mart has always dealt with our company consistently and fairly.During the twenty-plus

years that Oil-Dri has been a Wal-Mart vendor, we have found them to be among the most

ethical companies with whom we do business. They have made us a better company as we

have grown our systems and professionalism as they have grown.Oil-Dri is proud to be a

partner with Wal-Mart.

—Daniel Jaffee

President and CEO of Oil-Dri

As we saw the remarkable growth and improvements that happened by

working closer with Procter & Gamble and GE, we realized that once we

dealt with the issue of trust, it opened up entirely new ways of thinking and

new avenues of communication. So we began exploring and talking about a

partnership relationship with our suppliers, a collaboration to improve our

service to the stores, to reduce costs in the supply chain, to reduce prices to

our customers, and to increase sales for both the supplier and Wal-Mart.

Every kind of peaceful cooperation among men is primarily based on mutual trust and only secondarily

on institutions such as courts of justice and police.

—Albert Einstein

This began an ongoing dialogue, a series of meetings between the senior

leaders of Wal-Mart and our suppliers, in order to rethink and alter the nature

of our relationship. Our suppliers began to see that their customers were not

Wal-Mart and other retailers, but the people who bought the merchandise off

our counters in the stores and clubs. Suppliers began to talk about customers

as real live people, instead of “consumers.”We worked together on what was

good for our customers.

A beginning point in revamping our relationship with suppliers was to