SOURCE: WalMart_21st Century Leadership_Lee Scott.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Diversity and Inclusion
SUMMARY: Walmart's commitment to increasing diversity in its workforce, business partnerships, and transparency in reporting workforce demographics.
KEYWORDS: diversity, inclusion, workforce representation, community engagement, transparency
---

WAL*MART

Twenty First Century Leadership

Presented by Lee Scott

October 24, 2005

Thank you for joining me this morning and for giving me an opportunity to share some

perspective on our business and the significant opportunities we have ahead of us.

Wal-Mart started as one man’s dream 43 years ago, a courageous vision brought to life as

we speak, by more than one million Associates serving over 100 million customers every

week. Sam Walton’s goal was simple, and yet when you think about it, radical: He

wanted to help the people living in small towns and rural America enjoy a similar quality

of life as those who lived in the big cities. While retailers were rushing to the suburbs,

Sam Walton built a business serving these overlooked and under-appreciated customers.

He knew intuitively this was right for the country, but also that there was a big business

opportunity to provide this kind of value and service.

Sam Walton’s dream to serve the under-served changed the world, His method was to go

where other businesses feared to go. The other retailers of that time were convinced they

wouldn’t make money in small town America.

In other words, we didn’t get where we are today by being like everyone else and driving

the middle of the road. We became Wal-Mart by being different, radically different.

Even with this great beginning, we have received our share of criticism over numerous

issues, not the least of which is our size. To better understand our critics and Wal-Mart’s

impact on the world and society, we spent a year meeting with and listening to customers,

Associates, citizen groups, government leaders, non-profit and non-government

As part of our continuing efforts to become a leader in diversity we will:

1. Continue to ensure that our hiring represents the diversity of our communities,

and grow the percentage of women and minorities in our management ranks.

2. Increase outreach to colleges and universities with large diverse enrollments.

3. Continue to hold officers financially accountable by tying officer incentive

bonuses to the achievement of diversity goals, including mentoring and

participation in diverse organizations.

4. Increase amount of business we do with minority companies using our size and

leverage to create companies of significant size and stature.

5. Itis important that we be a company that is much more transparent with respect to

our employment data. To that end, we will release information on the gender and

racial make up of our workforce on a regular basis.

You know, as I close, 1 hope you have a sense that this is a company on the move and,

like Sam Walton, we are going to have the courage to lead and do what is right. Whether

the environment, product sourcing, healthcare and wages, community involvement or

diversity, we are investing in the future.

We are a large company. For Wal-Mart to be successful and continue to grow, we must

operate in a world that is healthy and successful. Of course, we are acutely aware that we

have a business to run, and run it we will. At the same time, we believe that these

initiatives and many more to come will make us a more competitive and innovative

company, and one that is more relevant to our customers.

Again, for us there is virtually no distinction between being a responsible citizen and a

successful business....they are one and the same for Wal-Mart today.

You may also be wondering to yourself, what is my individual role in all this....what do

you want me to do....as a store manager or co-manager, as a merchant, a truck driver or a

Home Office Associate?

15

For now, I would just ask that you give some serious thought to what I’ve talked about

today. I appreciate the fact that this is not a typical “call to action” where we are asking

you to go do something by the end of the day or end of the week. Instead, please think

about where you as an individual Wal-Mart Associate, and where your store, club or

work department can participate and make a contribution as we go forward in these areas.

I would also ask for your patience as, despite our best intentions, I’m sure we’re going to

make some mistakes along the way. Things will go wrong. Some Associates may have

trouble making the adjustment...some of you may be uncomfortable juggling the old with

the new.

So again I ask: what would it take for Wal-Mart to be that company -- the one we were

after Katrina...at our best...all the time?

We have an aggressive vision. With courage and commitment to change, we will be at

our best and remain true to the legacy of the company Sam Walton founded some 43

years ago.

Thank you.

16