SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Performance Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses the concept of differentiation, where employees are categorized based on their performance, with the bottom 10% being let go.
KEYWORDS: employee performance, talent management, organizational culture, employee differentiation, employee termination
---

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

the middle 70 needs to be motivated and made to feel as if they

truly belong. You do not want to lose the vast majority of your

middle 70—you want to improve them.

As for the bottom 10 percent in differentiation, there is no sugar-

coating this—they have to go. That’s more easily said than done;

It’s awful to fire people—I even hate that word. But if you have a

candid organization with clear performance expectations and a

performance evaluation process—a big if, obviously, but that

should be everyone’s goal—then people in the bottom 10 percent

generally know who they are. When you tell them, they usually

leave before you ask them to. No one wants to be in an organi-

zation where they aren’t wanted. One of the best things about

differentiation is that people in the bottom 10 percent of organi-

zations very often go on to successful careers at companies and in

pursuits where they truly belong and where they can excel.

That’s how differentiation works in a nutshell. People some-

times ask where I came up with the idea. My answer is, I didn’t in-

vent differentiation! I learned it on the playground when I was a

kid. When we were making a baseball team, the best players always

got picked first, the fair players were put in the easy positions, usu-

ally second base or right field, and the least athletic ones had to

watch from the sidelines. Everyone knew where he stood. The top

kids wanted desperately to stay there, and got the reward of respect

and the thrill of winning. The kids in the middle worked their tails

off to get better, and sometimes they

did, bringing up the quality of play

I didn’t invent for everyone. And the kids who

couldn’t make the cut usually found

differentiation! I learned

other pursuits, sports and otherwise,

it on the playground

that they enjoyed and excelled at.

when I was a kid.

Not everyone can be a great ball-

player, and not every great ballplayer

— 42 —

DIFFERENTIATION

can be a great doctor, computer programmer, carpenter, musician,

or poet. Each one of us is good at something, and I just believe we

are happiest and the most fulfilled when we’re doing that.

It’s true on the playground, and it’s true in business.

REASONS TO HATE DIFFERENTIATION—AND NOT

I could spend the next couple of pages explaining all the reasons to

love differentiation, but instead I’m going to list the most com-

mon criticisms the concept receives. I’m leaving aside “hardware”

differentiation here, because it doesn’t get anything like the heat

that 20-70-10 does.

So here are the criticisms of people differentiation. Some have

truth in them, but more often than not, they don’t! Here’s what I

mean:

Differentiation is unfair because it’s always corrupted by

company politics—20-70-10 is just a way of separating

the people who kiss the boss’s rear from those who don’t.

It is true, without question, that at some companies, differentiation

is corrupted by cronyism and favoritism. The top 20 percent are

the boss’s head-nodders and buddies, and the bottom 10 percent

are the outspoken types who ask difficult questions and challenge

the status quo. The middle 70 are just ducking and getting by. That

happens and it stinks, and it is a function of a leadership team lack-

ing in brains or integrity or both.

The only good thing I can say about a merit-free system like

this is that eventually it destroys itself. It collapses from its own

weight or has to change. The results just won’t be good enough to

sustain the enterprise.

Luckily, cases of “differentiation abuse” can generally be pre-

— 43 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

vented by a candid, clear-cut performance system, with defined

expectations and goals and timelines, and a program of consistent

appraisals. In fact, differentiation can be implemented only after

such a system is in place, a process that we will discuss more specif-

ically in the chapter on people management.

Differentiation is mean and bullying. It’s like the

playground in the worst possible way—weak kids are

made into fools, outcasts, and objects of ridicule.

I’ve heard this one a hundred times, and it really drives me crazy

because one of the major advantages of differentiation is that it is

good and fair—to everyone!

When differentiation is working, people know where they

stand. You know if you have a strong shot at a big promotion or if

you need to be looking for other opportunities, inside or outside

the company. Maybe some information is hard to swallow at first,

and yes, “bad” news often hurts, but soon enough, like all knowl-

edge, it’s power—in fact, it’s liberating. When you know where

you stand, you can control your own destiny, and what is more fair

than that?

Interestingly, when people raise this criticism with me at

speaking engagements, I often ask them a question back. I ask if

they ever received grades in school. Naturally, everyone says yes. I

then ask, “Did you think getting grades was mean?”

“Well, no,” they usually say. Sometimes grades sting, but kids

somehow always live through it. And grades have a way of making

everything pretty clear. Some people graduate and go on to be as-

tronauts or research scientists or college professors, others become

marketing managers or advertising executives, and still others be-

come nurses,chefs,or even professional surfers.Grades,in fact,guide

us, telling us something about ourselves that we need to know.

— 44 —

DIFFERENTIATION

So why should we stop getting grades at age twenty-one? To

prevent meanness? Please!

Corollary: I’m just too nice to implement 20-70-10.

Usually, people with this complaint about differentiation assert

that differentiation, as a managerial system, does not value people

who add intangible things to a business, like a “feeling of family”

or “humanity” or “a sense of history.”And we all know of organi-

zations that continue to employ underperformers for a long time