SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Media Industry
SUMMARY: The text discusses the rise of Fox News and the challenges and opportunities of starting new ventures from within established companies.
KEYWORDS: media industry, business growth, mergers and acquisitions, competition, entrepreneurship
---

a paper or turn on a TV without hearing, in some form, about the

relentless advance of Fox.

Fox News is an example of everything going right at a new

venture: a high bar for people, outsize spending on resources,

and lots of noise about it all. Its results tell the story. Fox quickly

beat MSNBC and eventually surpassed the longtime cable news

leader, CNN.

■

— 215 —

YOUR COMPETITION

Legendary entrepreneurs like Henry Ford, Dave Packard, and

Bill Gates are undeniably examples of the excitement and glory

of starting something new from scratch and watching it grow to

astonishing proportions.

But in each of your companies, opportunities of every size and

variety await.

Grab them. Pick passionate, driven people to lead them, re-

source them with everything you’ve got, and give them oxygen to

breathe.

Growth is great, and in business, it doesn’t always have to start

in a garage. There is nothing like the fun and the sheer thrill of

starting something new—especially from inside something old.

— 216 —

14

Mergers and Acquisitions

DEAL HEAT AND

OTHER DEADLY SINS

YOU’VE SEEN THE BIG PA R T Y when two companies

announce their merger. There’s the early morning press con-

ference on CNBC, the chatter and the buzz, the vigorous pump-

ing of hands, the TV lights glaring, the glossy banner proclaiming

the new company’s name. It’s all there but the confetti.

And then there are the stars of the show—the merging CEOs

grinning widely, slapping each other on the back, and talking

about a brave new world of synergies, cost savings, and increased

shareholder value. At particularly jovial merger announcements,

the CEOs wrap each other in a big bear hug, like Steve Case and

Jerry Levin on that fateful day of the AOL–Time Warner deal.

With the excitement, there’s exhaustion too, and sometimes

you don’t have to look very hard to see it in the faces of the CEOs

at center stage. They have been working around the clock for

weeks, if not months, fighting over every last nickel, not to men-

tion who will run what.

But usually, all you see at merger announcements is elation and

— 217 —

YOUR COMPETITION

relief. The battle is over, and now it’s time to reap the deal’s re-

wards.

In reality, as the veteran of any merger will tell you, the battle

has just begun, and the deal’s rewards won’t come without a lot of

blood, sweat, and tears.

If the first day of the merger is a big party, on day two, the

cleanup begins. For people on the acquiring side of the deal,

mountains of work stand in front of them, and while they may be

pumped with optimism, there is always an undercurrent of ner-

vousness in the room. Every deal promises cost savings, and even if

you’ve been part of the deal team, working night and day grinding

out numbers to justify doing it, a little piece of you has to wonder

if the savings you’ve articulated will come to mean the loss of your

job, or that of your boss, or your best friend down the hall, or the

employee you’ve been mentoring for a year.

For the acquired, the nervousness in the room isn’t an under-

current, it’s a tidal wave. Everyone is terrified of layoffs. But even if

you think your job is safe, life has just gotten very complex. A

merger can feel like a death. Everything you’ve worked for, every

relationship you’ve forged—they’re suddenly null and void. Your

sense is that nothing will ever be the same again.

On top of it all, day two media

coverage is filled with business jour-

A merger can feel like

nalists and Wall Street analysts ques-

a death. Everything tioning the rationale for the deal

you’ve worked for, and reminding everyone that many

mergers fail.

every relationship

Mergers do fail. In particular, it is

you’ve forged—they’re

a hard road for mergers forged pri-

suddenly null and void. marily to capture industry conver-

gence benefits or revenue synergies.

— 218 —

MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

It’s easier to succeed when a merger is based on cost reductions

from the combination, with any upside from revenue synergies

considered a pure bonus. But either way, merger success is never a

layup.

And yet companies persist in merging—and they should.

In the last chapter, we looked at why organic growth is great.

Every company must have the patience to consistently focus on

and invest in the innovation that drives it.

But mergers and acquisitions give you a faster way to profitable

growth. They quickly add geographical and technological scope,

and bring on board new products and customers. Just as impor-

tant, mergers instantly allow a company to improve its players—

suddenly there are twice as many people “trying out” for the

team.

All in all, successful mergers create a dynamic where 1 + 1 = 3,

catapulting a company’s competitiveness literally overnight.

You just have to do it right.

This chapter is about that process, and it is intended for every-

one involved, from the people making the deal to those who are

affected by it several layers away. Over my career at GE, I was

involved in well over a thousand acquisitions and mergers, and

over the past three years, I have consulted with managers during

several more.

Obviously, not every deal I’ve participated in has been a suc-

cess. But most were, and over time, my batting average improved

as I learned from the mistakes made in situations that did not

work.

In the end, I’ve learned that merging successfully is about more

than picking the right company to fit your strategy, laying out

what plants you close and what product lines you combine, or

how pretty your calculations of DCRR or IRR look.

— 219 —

YOUR COMPETITION

Merging right is ultimately about avoiding seven pitfalls, by

which I mean mistakes or errors in judgment. There may be other