SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Career Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of maintaining a positive attitude and overcoming setbacks in one's career.
KEYWORDS: career advancement, positive attitude, overcoming setbacks
---

human tragedy, and distraught over the deaths of two of his closest

— 294 —

GETTING PROMOTED

friends, Herman and Chris. But

today he will tell you that he knew You can win without

one thing would prevent the firm

being upbeat—if every

from shutting down and the disaster

other star is aligned—

worsening—a can-do attitude.

“All I did after 9/11 was walk but why would you

around, consoling people, talking want to try?

about how we were going to survive

and rebuild,” he said recently.

As he hired to replace Sandler O’Neill’s lost employees, Jimmy

looked for people who were upbeat, positive, and as undaunted as

humanly possible by 9/11. Skill mattered a lot; outlook mattered

more.

“Success,”Jimmy says, “is so much about attitude.”

A positive attitude does not always come easy—and in cases

like Jimmy Dunne’s after 9/11, it comes unimaginably hard.

If it’s natural for you, fantastic. If it isn’t, fight to find it and wear

it all over yourself.

You can win without being upbeat—if every other star is

aligned—but why would you want to try?

ONE LAST DON’T

The final don’t concerns setbacks.

Once or twice or more times than that, you will not get pro-

moted. Don’t let it break your stride.

Of course, you will feel terrible, maybe even bitter and angry.

But work like hell to let those feelings go.

First, and by all means, do not turn your career setback into the

office cause célèbre. What a way to alienate everyone—your boss,

coworkers, and subordinates. If you want to complain about your

— 295 —

YOUR CAREER

career, do it at home, at a bar across town, or wherever you go to

worship. The people at work, while they know a lot about your

case, should not be drawn into your emotional experience.

More important, even if you are thinking of leaving your com-

pany, try to accept your setback with as much grace as you can

muster, and even see it as a challenge to prove yourself anew. Such

an approach will serve you well whether you stay or go.

No one makes this point better than Mark Little.

Mark was the quiet, self-confident, and well-liked engineering

vice president of GE’s Power Systems when, in 1995, the business

ran into serious quality problems. As Mark puts it, “I had just

gotten the job, and, basically, turbine blades were cracking all over

the world. It was a mess.”

Mark worked hard to get the business back on track, but when

Bob Nardelli was promoted to run the entire Power Systems

group, he decided Mark had neither the sense of urgency nor the

engineering expertise for the job. He split the business and gave

Mark engineering responsibility for just steam turbines, the much

smaller and less important piece. Suddenly, Mark was in charge of

one-third as many people and a product considered to be old, dull,

and slow-growth.

“It felt like the end of the world,” Mark said to me recently. “I

thought it was unfair, and I was mad as hell. I felt like I hadn’t

created the problem, and I had done everything I could to fix it.

Then I was punched in the stomach. I was angry and hurt, and I

had to believe it was the end of my GE career.”

But Mark did an amazing thing. He stuck his chin out and got

back to work.

“I just figured I was going to prove everyone wrong,” he said.

“I wanted to show the whole world what we could do.”

Over the next couple of years, Mark energized his team to revi-

— 296 —

GETTING PROMOTED

talize the steam turbine product line. He introduced new technolo-

gies and put in process disciplines, driving costs down to new levels.

“I made up my mind that I was not going to show my people

that I was mad and hurt. I was going to go in there every day and

do what was best for me and my people and for GE. And that was

to refocus the business.”

In 1997, Mark’s results were so terrific and his self-confidence

was so restored that when the much-larger position of product

manager for all turbines came open, he approached Bob Nardelli

and asked for the job.

The answer was yes.

“I’d say the main reason I got the promotion was because I sur-

prised everybody with my results, my attitude, and my persever-

ance. I just never gave up.”

Today, Mark is the product manager not only for the turbine

business, but for GE’s hydro and wind businesses as well, a $14 bil-

lion enterprise.

■

To get ahead, you have to want to get ahead.

Some promotions come because of luck, but very few. The

facts are, when it comes to careers, you mainly make your own

luck. You will likely change companies, maybe even professions,

more than a few times over the course of your working life. But

there are some things you can do to keep moving ahead. Exceed

expectations, broaden your job’s horizons, and never give your

boss a reason to have to spend capital for you. Manage your subor-

dinates carefully, sign up for radar-screen assignments, collect

mentors, and spread your positive attitude. When setbacks come,

and they will, ride them out with your head up.

— 297 —

That may sound like a lot of stuff to do, but there are no real

shortcuts.

Along the journey, you won’t get every promotion you want

when you want it. But if you take the “long way,” eventually—and

sometimes sooner than you expect—you’ll reach your destina-

tion.

18

Hard Spots

THAT DAMN BOSS

I’VE NEVER KNOW N A PERSON who didn’t light up

at the memory of a truly great boss. And for good reason: great

bosses can be friends, teachers, coaches, allies, and sources of inspi-

ration all in one. They can shape and advance your career in ways