SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Crisis Management
SUMMARY: This passage discusses the challenges of crisis management, including the need to balance resolving the crisis while maintaining normal operations.
KEYWORDS: crisis management, leadership, problem-solving, organizational behavior, change management
---

nity, even those from someone else’s misfortune. That’s it.

Don’t get all caught up in your knickers over change.

You just don’t need to.

— 145 —

10

Crisis Management

FROM OH-GOD-NO TO

YES-WE’RE-FINE

IT’S N O WO NDER that crisis management is often referred

to as firefighting. Like a four-alarm blaze, an event of the oh-

God-no variety can really consume an organization. Managers

huddle in meeting after meeting, trying to figure out what the

heck is going on, while everyone else gathers in little clumps all

over the office to whisper. They wring their hands over whose

head is going to roll. They obsess about their jobs, pointing fingers

up, down, and sideways. Often, panic rages so high that real work

grinds to a halt.

Sound familiar?

Look, crises happen. As long as companies are made up of

human beings, there will be mistakes, controversies, and blowups.

There will be accidents, theft, and fraud. The cold truth is that

some degree of unwanted and unacceptable behavior is inevitable.

If people always followed the rules, there would be no police

forces, courthouses, or jails.

For leaders, crises often stand out as the most painful and trying

— 147 —

YOUR COMPANY

experiences of their business lives.

Managers can waste a Crises can create anxiety-ridden

days, sleepless nights, and a churning

lot of time at the outset

in the pit of your stomach like no

of a crisis denying that

other challenge you face at work.

something went wrong. And on top of it all, crises de-

Skip that step. mand from leaders a daunting

balancing act. On one hand, you’ve

got to throw everything you’ve got

into understanding and solving the crisis. You have to unleash a

torrent of time and energy, mainly your own, at dousing the

flames. At the same time, you have to put that activity into a com-

partment and carry on as if nothing is actually wrong. That’s what

leaders usually neglect—to their regret. Because when you focus

only on the crisis, it can overtake the whole organization, sucking

it into a vortex of blame, dread, and paralysis.

This balancing act is obviously brutal to pull off in the midst of

an event that feels like a living hell.At the outset,you never have all

the information you want or need, and solutions often emerge

much more slowly than you’d like. And the ending to a crisis rarely

seems completely fair or right. Good people sometimes get hurt,

and all you can really be happy about is that the mess is finally over.

Each crisis is different. Some are entirely internal affairs with

swift solutions. Others are huge media events, with all sorts of legal

ramifications. The uniqueness of each crisis makes it hard to come

up with rules for getting through them.

There are, however, five things you can assume about how your

crisis will unfold. These assumptions played out in virtually every

crisis I managed, from Aircraft Engines’ bribery case involving an

Israeli air force general, to the company’s battle with the govern-

ment over time card accuracy, to the Kidder Peabody scandal,

— 148 —

CRISIS MANAGEMENT

where an employee misrepresented earnings by millions of dollars.

These assumptions aren’t a formula for managing a crisis, but

hopefully they’ll provide directional guidance as you get from oh-

God-no back to yes-we’re-fine again:

First, assume the problem is worse than it appears. Managers can

waste a lot of time at the outset of a crisis denying that something

went wrong. Don’t let that happen to you. Skip the denial step,and

get into the mind-set that the problem will get bigger, messier, and

more awful than you can possibly imagine.

Second, assume there are no secrets in the world and that everyone will

eventually find out everything. One of the most common tendencies

inside the crisis vortex is containment, in which managers franti-

cally try to clamp down on information flow. It’s far better to get

out ahead of the problem, exposing its scope before someone else

does it for you.

Third, assume you and your organization’s handling of the crisis will

be portrayed in the worst possible light. It is not the job of the media

to make you or your organization look good during a crisis, and

they won’t. And never mind the media. Your own organiza-

tion can be a tough audience during times of trouble. In both

cases, the implication is the same: define your own position early

and often.

Fourth, assume there will be changes in processes and people. Almost

no crisis ends without blood on the floor. Real crises don’t just fade

away. They require solutions that overhaul current processes or in-

troduce new ones and, just as often, upend lives and careers.

Fifth, assume your organization will survive, ultimately stronger for

what happened. We learned something from every single crisis that

made us a smarter and more effective organization. Taking the

long view might make living in the hellish moment somewhat

more bearable.

— 149 —

YOUR COMPANY

SEEKING IMMUNITY

Last year in Amsterdam, we met a Dutch journalist who had

recently recovered from an illness that had robbed her of her

memory for two years. She recounted to us the worst aspect of

amnesia for her, which she described as her lack of immunity in

life. Every time she made a mistake, like touching a hot stove or

not bringing an umbrella out in a rainstorm, it was as if it were for

the first time. She never learned anything from experience.

At the time we met, the journalist was covering the crisis

unfolding at the Dutch food retailer Ahold, which had been ac-

cused of serious accounting fraud. In our conversation, she won-

dered what would become of the company if its troubles passed.

Having touched the stove once, would it do so again, or would its

financial accounting be more tightly controlled than ever before?

I volunteered that Ahold might make other mistakes in the