SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Crisis Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of having the right mindset when dealing with a crisis, emphasizing the need to assume responsibility and take decisive action to resolve the issue.
KEYWORDS: crisis management, mindset, responsibility, decisive action, problem-solving
---

you could ever imagine with that first phone call—and they will

last longer and get more ugly. More people than you thought will

be involved, more lawyers than you’ve ever seen will poke their

noses in, and more terrible things will be said and published than

your worst nightmare.

So adjust your mind-set early on. Go into every crisis assuming

the absolute worst has occurred somewhere in your organization

and, just as important, that you completely own the problem. In

other words, go so far as to assume your company did it and you

have to fix it.

My tepid response to the time card crisis is case in point here

about the importance of having the right mind-set, which I did

not. With my lack of experience in crisis management, I assumed

— 153 —

YOUR COMPANY

the problem just couldn’t be that

I’m not saying that the bad, given that no one stood to gain

personally from misallocating their

correct mind-set means

hours. Maybe a few people had

you should fold at the

been sloppy with their time cards

get-go. Sometimes you and winged it, I thought—but so

are absolutely clean and what?

The “so what” was all in the tim-

you need to fight.

ing. Caspar Weinberger had just

been named secretary of defense,

and he was spearheading President

Reagan’s campaign against government “fraud, waste, and abuse.”

The newspapers were filled with stories about companies charg-

ing the government $400 for hammers and $1,000 for toilet seats.

We were up next.

The facts, as we came to learn, were that 99.5 percent of the

thousands of time cards filed in the Pennsylvania plant had been

filled out correctly. It didn’t matter—0.5 percent of them were not

and that was a violation. Instead of facing that, we got all caught

up in our own logic. It went like this: most of the time cards

were correct and the errors were accidental ...overall we had

actually undercharged the government . . . this is all just a political

witch hunt.

With a seasoned mind-set, I would have said, “We were wrong.

Let’s do what it takes to correct the situation and put it behind us.”

I’m not saying that the correct mind-set means you should

always fold at the get-go. Sometimes you are absolutely clean and

you need to fight. In 1992, a former employee turned whistle-

blower from our diamond business claimed that we had colluded

with De Beers to set prices in the industrial diamond market.

Knowing the people charged with collusion, I felt certain that

this was just a case of a disgruntled guy who should have been let

— 154 —

CRISIS MANAGEMENT

go with more sensitivity. Nevertheless, we dug into the investiga-

tion as if we were guilty, looking for every shred of evidence that

could be used against us. We turned up nothing. That allowed us

to take on the government with everything we had, and we won

big when a federal judge threw out the government’s case in 1994.

The same “we own it” mind-set got us successfully through

another crisis. In the late ’80s, the people running our appliances

business in Louisville, Kentucky, began to hear rumblings from the

field that an unusual number of refrigerator compressors were

requiring repair a year or two out of the factory. The highest vol-

ume of breakdowns was coming from the warm-weather states.

After a few months, the problem spread north, and I was brought

into the loop.

We immediately assembled a SWAT team of experts from

every part of the company—metallurgists and statisticians from

corporate R & D, design engineers from Aircraft Engines who had

experience with rotating parts, and marketing people who had

studied the consumer impact of other national product recalls.

The team met weekly for a month and spoke on the phone

every day to review new data and sort through options. Within

three months, it was clear that the only course of action was a

national recall. We had to take a $500 million write-off, and we

received some unpleasant coverage about our technical capabili-

ties in the Wall Street Journal. But grasping the scope of the prob-

lem early and taking ownership of its solution ultimately resulted

in a lot of goodwill from consumers.

The point is, at the first glimmer of a crisis, don’t flinch. Get

into a worst-case scenario mind-set and start digging.

Assume you have a major problem on your hands that’s yours

to fix.

Assumption 2: There are no secrets in the world, and

everyone will eventually find out everything. In the chapter

— 155 —

YOUR COMPANY

on people management, discussing the corrosive effect of layers, I

mentioned the children’s game of telephone. In it, the first person

in a circle whispers a secret to the second, who passes to a third,

and round it goes until the last person announces what message

has reached him. Not surprisingly, the final version has no resem-

blance to the original.

Telephone gets played during crises too.

Information you try to shut down will eventually get out, and

as it travels, it will certainly morph, twist, and darken.

The only way to prevent that is to expose the problem your-

self. If you don’t, you can be sure someone will do it for you, and

you will look the worse for it.

Now, I know what you’re thinking; “Legal won’t let us.” And

you’re right. During a crisis, your lawyers will tell you to say less,

not more. They will warn you not to implicate Joe or Joyce

because their involvement is not yet clear.

That advice is not all wrong. But don’t take it as gospel. Push

lawyers to let you say as much as you can. Just make sure that what

you do say is the total truth, with no shades of gray.

Cases of full disclosure in business abound, but Johnson &

Johnson probably set the gold standard with its handling of the