SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Work-Life Balance
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of balancing work and personal life, and how the concept of work-life balance has evolved over time.
KEYWORDS: work-life balance, career, family, time management, corporate culture
---

shortly thereafter, you got married and started having kids. Get-

ting a job and working your ass off at it was considered the ticket

to a good life.

I followed this pattern without a lot of thought. Luckily for

me, I found work to be enormously exciting. I saw the weekends

as a time to play golf and party with other young couples.

But looking back, it is clear that the balance I chose had conse-

— 313 —

YOUR CAREER

quences for the people around me at home and at the office. For

instance, my kids were raised, largely alone, by their mother, Car-

olyn.

By the same token, from my earliest days in Plastics, I used to

show up at the office Saturday mornings. Not coincidentally, my

direct reports showed up too. Personally, I thought these weekend

hours were a blast. We would mop up the workweek in a more re-

laxed way and shoot the breeze about sports.

I never once asked anyone, “Is there someplace you would

rather be—or need to be—for your family or favorite hobby or

whatever?” The idea just didn’t dawn on me that anyone would

want to be anywhere but at work.

My defense, if there is one, is that those were the times. In the

1960s and ’70s, all my direct reports were men.Many of those men

were fathers, and fathers were different then. They did not, by and

large, attend ballet recitals on Thursday afternoons or turn down

job transfers because they didn’t want to disrupt their kids’ sports

“careers.” Most of their wives did not have jobs with their own

competing demands. In general, it was assumed that wives stayed

at home to make everything run smoothly.

All that started to change, of course, in the ’80s, when women

started moving up in the workforce, and by late in the decade, I

started to hear a lot more about work-life balance. It initially

bubbled up in many of our management development classes at

Crotonville, where managers started to describe the pressures they

felt trying to manage travel and transfers in two-career house-

holds. Debate about the topic within GE became more intense in

the early ’90s, both at Crotonville and during meetings with the

GE African American Forum, and it reached a new level of inten-

sity later on during my meetings with members of the company’s

Women’s Network.

These conversations forced me to confront something that I

— 314 —

WORK-LIFE BALANCE

had never really confronted for myself—the conflicts involved in

managing two full lives—the one at work and the one after hours,

be it caring for kids, volunteering at a homeless shelter, or running

marathons.

While work-life balance was increasingly front and center

during the 1990s, the debate about it has only intensified since my

retirement in 2001. Today, no CEO or company can ignore it. In

fall 2004, for instance, the New York Times ran a front-page, three-

part series on work-life balance and job stress. That same week,

Fast Company’s cover story was entitled, “Still Worried About

Work-Life Balance? Forget It. But Here’s How to Have a Life

Anyway.” There is a whole consulting industry devoted to the

subject, and too many books and Web sites about it to even esti-

mate a number.

Not surprisingly, then, as I’ve traveled around the world for the

past three years, I’ve gotten slews of work-life balance questions.

The most common is, “How did you find time for all that golf

and still become CEO?” but they run the gamut. Once, in Beijing,

a man in the audience who looked to be in his thirties asked

me, “How did you manage your children while you were manag-

ing GE?”

My answers to these questions have been of limited use, I’m

sure. I say that I found time for golf because I didn’t spend my

leisure time on much else. As for my children, I didn’t “manage”

them, except to crack the whip on grades and play social director

during my three weeks of vacation each year. Their happy lives

today have a lot more to do with their mom than with me.

So, I’m clearly no expert on just how individuals should prior-

itize the various parts of their lives, and I’ve always felt that choice

is personal anyway.

But I have dealt with dozens of work-life balance situations

and dilemmas as a manager, and hundreds more as the manager of

— 315 —

YOUR CAREER

managers. And over the past three years, I’ve heard from many

people—both bosses and employees—about this complex issue.

From all these experiences, I have a sense of how bosses think

about work-life balance, whether they tell you or not.

You may not like their perspective, but you have to face it.

There’s lip service about work-life balance, and then there’s reality.

To make the choices and take the actions that ultimately make

sense for you, you need to understand that reality:

1.Your boss’s top priority is competitiveness. Of

course he wants you to be happy, but only inasmuch

as it helps the company win. In fact, if he is doing

his job right, he is making your job so exciting

that your personal life becomes a less compelling

draw.

2. Most bosses are perfectly willing to accommodate

work-life balance challenges if you have earned it

with performance.The key word here is: if.

3. Bosses know that the work-life policies in the

company brochure are mainly for recruiting

purposes and that real work-life arrangements

are negotiated one-on-one in the context of a

supportive culture, not in the context of “But the

company says . . . !”

4. People who publicly struggle with work-life

balance problems and continually turn to the

company for help get pigeonholed as ambivalent,

entitled, uncommitted, or incompetent—or all of

the above.

— 316 —

WORK-LIFE BALANCE

5. Even the most accommodating bosses believe that

work-life balance is your problem to solve. In fact,