SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Merger and Acquisition Strategies
SUMMARY: This text discusses the seven common pitfalls that companies should avoid when merging or acquiring other businesses.
KEYWORDS: merger, acquisition, integration, cultural fit, deal heat
---

what plants you close and what product lines you combine, or

how pretty your calculations of DCRR or IRR look.

— 219 —

YOUR COMPETITION

Merging right is ultimately about avoiding seven pitfalls, by

which I mean mistakes or errors in judgment. There may be other

pitfalls out there, but in my experience, these seven are the most

common. Sometimes they can kill a merger, but more often, they

significantly slow it down or reduce its value or both.

Here they are in brief. Six are related to the acquiring com-

pany, and just one to the acquired.

■ The first pitfall is believing that a merger of

equals can actually occur. Despite the noble

intentions of those attempting them, the vast

majority of MOEs self-destruct because of their

very premise.

■ The second pitfall is focusing so intently on

strategic fit that you fail to assess cultural fit, which

is just as important to a merger’s success, if not

more so.

■ The third pitfall is entering into a “reverse

hostage situation,” in which the acquirer ends up

making so many concessions during negotiations

that the acquired ends up calling all the shots

afterward.

■ The fourth pitfall is integrating too timidly.

With good leadership, a merger should be complete

within ninety days.

■ The fifth pitfall is the conqueror syndrome, in

which the acquiring company marches in and installs

— 220 —

MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

its own managers everywhere, undermining one of

the reasons for any merger—getting an influx of

new talent to pick from.

■ The sixth pitfall is paying too much. Not 5 or 10

percent too much, but so much that the premium

can never be recouped in the integration.

■ The seventh pitfall afflicts the acquired

company’s people from top to bottom—resistance.

In a merger, new owners will always select people

with buy-in over resisters with brains. If you want to

survive, get over your angst and learn to love the

deal as much as they do.

BEWARE DEAL HEAT

Before looking at the pitfalls in detail, it’s worth pointing out one

thing. Many of them happen for the same reason: deal heat.

I’m sure I don’t need to illustrate this phenomenon in grue-

some detail; you see it every time a company is hungry to buy and

the pickings in the marketplace are relatively limited. In such situ-

ations, once an acquisition candidate is identified, the top people

at the acquirer and their salivating

investment bankers join together in

a frenzy of panic, overreaching, and Deal heat is completely

paranoia, which intensifies with

human, and even the

every additional would-be acquirer

most experienced people

on the scene.

fall under its sway.

Deal heat is completely human,

and even the most experienced peo-

— 221 —

YOUR COMPETITION

ple fall under its sway. But its negative impacts during the M & A

process should at least be minimized if you keep these seven com-

mon pitfalls in mind.

The first pitfall is believing that a merger of equals can

actually occur. Despite the noble intentions of those

attempting them, the vast majority of MOEs self-

destruct because of their very premise.

Every time I hear about a so-called merger of equals taking place,

I cringe thinking about all the waste, confusion, and frustration

coming down the pike for the two companies, which usually

strike these deals with the best of intentions.

Yes, a merger of equals makes sense conceptually. Some compa-

nies are equal in size and strength, and yes, they should merge as

such. Moreover, during heated negotiations—and almost all

negotiations are that way at one point—the MOE concept cools

the flames. Both sides can claim to be winners.

But something happens to the MOE concept in practice—

people balk.

They balk, in fact, because of the very concept of equality. On

both sides, people think, if we’re so equal, why shouldn’t we do it

our way? Your way is certainly no better.

The result, ultimately, is that no one’s way gets done.

I know this negative point of view about MOEs is not shared

by everyone. My friend Bill Harrison, the CEO of JPMorgan

Chase during its merger with Bank One,would tell you that in the

financial industry, where the assets are the brains of proud, self-

confident bankers, mergers of equals are a necessity “or else every-

one would walk.”

— 222 —

MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

He may very well be right about this exception; the merger he

is overseeing with Jamie Dimon—who will become CEO of the

merged enterprise in 2006—is going very well. And Bill’s merger

experience supports his argument as well, starting with his Chem-

ical Bank MOE with Manufacturers Hanover, followed by the

MOE with Chase Manhattan and J. P. Morgan & Co.

Despite this success, I’m convinced that in the industrial world,

meaning just about anyplace but banking and consulting, mergers

of equals are doomed.

DaimlerChrysler is the most glaring example I can think of.

Remember all the crowing back in 1998 about how the two com-

panies were truly equivalent in all their facets; they just needed

each other to globalize? No, no, the companies proclaimed, this

wasn’t an acquisition by a high-end, diversified German manufac-

turer of a low-end American car company—no way! It was two

titans of industry entering a marriage made in heaven.

Some of this posturing was surely done in order to help the

merger receive regulatory approvals. But some of it also had to do

with ego. The directors on Chrysler’s board certainly weren’t

going to admit they’d been bought by a foreign company, and

their counterparts in Germany were probably no more thrilled

with the prospect of being taken over by a bunch of Americans.

And so the companies tried to execute their MOE. What a

mess! For two torturous years, the new company had Airbus

A318s shuttling hordes of people between Detroit and Stuttgart a

couple of times a week in an attempt to settle on mutually satis-