SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Career Advancement
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for navigating different job situations, including staying authentic during job interviews, performing well in a stuck position, and finding a job after being let go.
KEYWORDS: job interviews, career advancement, job performance, job search, career transitions
---

bling back to her feet, she shook hands with her interviewers,

saying, “And I’m Grace, the ballet teacher.”

None of them cracked a smile, nor did they try to put her at

ease after what was obviously an embarrassing moment. She

ended up being offered the job; she declined.

“They saw the real me, and I saw the real them,” she

recalls.

My main point is, when going after your first job, live in your

own skin and be comfortable there. Authenticity may be the best

selling point you’ve got.

The second special job situation is when you are stuck

in a position and see no way out. There are a slew of ways to

get stuck in a job. There is nowhere to move up, since your boss

isn’t going anywhere, and he has no interest in pushing you for a

job in another division. You’ve been passed over for a promotion,

and you’ve been told you are fine where you are, but you’re not

moving on anytime soon. Your company promotes people only

after a certain period of time—which is a long way off. You love

your job but the money is bad, or the money is great but your job

is lousy.

This list alone could make you want to scream.

And that’s the problem with being stuck. Frustration builds and

builds until people generally do something stupid—they quit.

Don’t do that. It is much, much easier to get a job from a job. I

would even go further and say, not only should you stay put, you

should work harder. Nothing will get you a new job faster than

terrific performance in your old one.

Gerry Roche, senior chairman of Heidrick & Struggles, and

one of the most respected headhunters in the United States, says

— 271 —

YOUR CAREER

that even if you feel stuck, if you are performing well, two outside

observers are likely to know—headhunters and competitors.

“Great performers are like the masts of the tall ships,” Gerry

said to me recently.“We can see them over the horizon, and we are

always trying to bring them in—to our port.”

By contrast, the worst kind of job seekers are those Gerry

called “perennials.”

“These types are never moving up fast enough or they can’t

stand their jobs, so they are always out there with their résumés

and their phone calls, hounding us or hounding companies to hire

them,” he said. “These people pretty quickly get themselves la-

beled.”

Obviously, if you’re stuck, you need to put feelers out there to

let people know you are thinking of moving. Just don’t make it

your purpose in life, or you’ll undermine your effort, and worse,

you’ll take your eye off your best hope for getting unstuck—your

performance.

The third special case is finding a job after you’ve been

let go. Last year, I had lunch with a former GE executive (let’s call

him Charlie) who had once worked for me in a staff position be-

fore moving into operations. After several promotions, he landed

in a job where he struggled for a couple of years to meet his num-

bers. Finally, in his early fifties, he was let go.

Charlie’s career, however, hardly ended. After a few months, he

became a partner at a high-technology company, starting part-

time and quickly being drawn into a full-time role. From there, he

was asked to join several corporate boards, and he also started

teaching at a well-known business school.

Five years after being let go, he told me, his work was more ful-

filling than ever.

I asked him how he’d come back so strong.

— 272 —

THE RIGHT JOB

“Listen, I screwed up,” he said. “My boss and I had agreed to

clear-cut objectives, and I missed them. I waited too long to let go

of two direct reports who weren’t delivering. I didn’t take costs

out fast enough when the downturn was approaching. I was just

too optimistic.

“I told my wife I was going to get it, and I did.”

Charlie’s rational response floored me because usually after

people have been let go, they become very defensive.

Defensive—and depressed.

Both conditions, albeit natural and common, are what kill you

when you go out to get a job again. An employer can pick up low

self-esteem across the room, and people want to hire winners.

But how do you act like a winner when you feel like a loser?

I asked Charlie that question.

His approach, he said, was to draw on what he called his “reser-

voir of self-confidence”—his strong family and his store of posi-

tive feelings about himself and his achievements in the past. He

used that internal capital to stay connected with business col-

leagues and to network for new opportunities. He also used it to

stay active socially and in community

activities.

“At first, maybe people were look-

The goal, if you’ve

ing at me differently and talking about

been let go, is to stay

me because I wasn’t working any-

out of what I refer to as

more,” Charlie said. “I tried not to pay

attention to that.” “the vortex of defeat,”

The goal, if you’ve been let go, is to

in which you let

stay out of what I have always referred

yourself spiral into

to as “the vortex of defeat,” in which

inertia and despair.

you let yourself spiral into inertia and

despair.

— 273 —

YOUR CAREER

One reason why people often

Every manager in the get sucked into the vortex is that

they wait too long before they

world knows what “I

start looking for another job. This

resigned” or “I left for

is a tricky matter. It makes a lot of

personal reasons” really sense to take some time off after

means. you are let go—say, a month or

two—to reflect and compose

yourself. On the other hand, the

longer you wait, the more likely you are to start doubting yourself,