SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Mergers and Acquisitions
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of cultural fit in successful mergers and acquisitions, and how acquirers can sometimes end up losing control of the acquired company.
KEYWORDS: Mergers, Acquisitions, Culture, Negotiations, Reverse Hostage Situation
---

Frankly, I didn’t want to pollute the healthy culture we had.

Every deal affects the acquiring company’s culture in some

way, and you have to think about that going in. The acquired

company’s culture can blend nicely with yours. That’s the best

case. Sometimes, a few of the acquired company’s bad behaviors

— 226 —

MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

creep in and pollute what you’ve built. That’s bad enough, but in

the worst case, the acquired company’s culture can fight yours all

the way and delay the deal’s value indefinitely.

That’s why if you want your merger to work, don’t just look at

strategic fit. Cultural fit counts just as much.

The third pitfall is entering a “reverse hostage situa-

tion,” in which the acquirer ends up making so many

concessions during negotiations that the acquired

company ends up calling all the shots afterward.

Sometimes you want to own a company so badly, you end up let-

ting it own you!

This dynamic is a real by-product of deal heat, and it’s so com-

mon, it’s frightening. Every time I talk about mergers with an ex-

perienced deal maker, it comes up.

I let it happen for the first (but unfortunately not the last) time

in 1977, a few years before I became CEO. By that time, I was a

veteran of dozens of mergers, so I should have known better, but I

was so hot to acquire a California-based semiconductor company

named Intersil that I couldn’t bring myself to say no to any of their

demands. The CEO was convinced that his company was operat-

ing smoothly, and he made it perfectly clear that while he liked

GE’s money, he didn’t need its advice.

Before I knew what was happening in the negotiations, I was

kissing this guy’s rear end in every possible way. He wanted a spe-

cial (oversize) compensation scheme for himself and his people,

because that’s the way it was in his industry. I said OK. He said we

couldn’t have GE people at his planning meetings. I said OK. He

— 227 —

YOUR COMPETITION

said we weren’t allowed to ask his finance people to change their

reporting system to match ours. I said OK.

I couldn’t pay them $300 million fast enough.

What was I thinking?

Well, obviously, I wasn’t. That’s deal heat for you.

For several years, we muddled along, “merged” with Intersil.

Frequently, when we made a suggestion about how the CEO

might improve his operating systems—in HR, for instance—he

would brush us off with, “You don’t understand this industry.

Just leave us alone and you’ll get your earnings at the end of the

quarter.”

It was unpleasant, to put it mildly, and far from productive. I

found that I could call their headquarters for information, but

unless I asked my question in exactly the right way, I would get

nothing but a head fake. GE managers stopped visiting because

they were given such a cold reception. Technically, we owned the

company, but for all intents and purposes, it was running the show.

Finally, we sold Intersil at about break-even. The only thing we

got from the deal was an important lesson: don’t ever buy a com-

pany that makes you its hostage.

The facts are, I was hamstrung with Intersil. We didn’t have

sufficient knowledge of semiconductors or a senior manager with

enough stature and experience in the industry to replace the

CEO, let alone his management team.

When we bought RCA ten

years later, a similar situation rolled

Technically, we owned around, but we were prepared for it.

During negotiations we were told

the company, but for all

that the head of NBC, Grant Tin-

intents and purposes, it

ker, was thinking of leaving. We cer-

was running the show.

tainly didn’t have direct experience

in managing TV networks, but I

— 228 —

MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

knew I had the bench strength in Bob Wright, the CEO of GE

Capital at the time, to put a capable all-around leader in Grant’s

place quickly, should he depart. I tried hard to keep Grant but

couldn’t, and when he left, Bob stepped right in and eighteen

years later is still running NBC.

A couple of years later, a potential hostage situation developed

in one of NBC’s divisions, News. Its leaders openly—you might

say brazenly—questioned GE’s ability to manage a journalistic

enterprise and started throwing up the information firewalls that

are so typical of this hostage dynamic. The division’s manager,

Larry Grossman, led the resistance and wasn’t willing to put to-

gether a reasonable budget—that is, a budget where we made

money. We asked him to leave and brought in Michael Gartner,

who had significant journalistic and business experience. Michael

took a lot of heat for starting the process of ridding NBC News of

its entitlement mentality, and he did a good job, but unfortunately,

he had to leave because of a crisis that occurred on his watch. (The

NBC News show Dateline rigged a General Motors car to ex-

plode for a report on automobile safety; we publicly apologized

for the incident.) We next turned to a CBS executive producer

filled with journalistic credentials, Andy Lack. And it was Andy

who really made NBC News into the high-integrity, highly prof-

itable business it is today.

A final word on the reverse hostage dynamic. In the last

moments of deal heat, companies often strike an earn-out package

for the acquired company’s founder or CEO, hoping they will get

retention and great performance of an important player in return.

All they usually get is strife.

The reason is that earn-out packages most often motivate their

recipients to keep things the same. They will want you to let them

run the business the way they always did—that’s how they know

how to make the numbers. At every opportunity, they will block

— 229 —

YOUR COMPETITION

personnel changes, accounting systems consolidation, and com-

pensation plans—you name it.