SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: This passage discusses the key characteristics that helped Charlene, a high-potential employee, rise through the ranks at GE, including her ability to energize teams and make tough decisions.
KEYWORDS: leadership, high-potential, decision-making, team-building, execution
---

team really got its Six Sigma program on the corporate radar

screen.

It’s hard to unpick Charlene’s ability to energize because it’s a

brew of skills all mixed together. She is a great communicator,

who can clearly define objectives. She’s dead serious about work,

but she doesn’t take herself too seriously. In fact, she has a good

sense of humor and shares credit readily. Her attitude is always

upbeat: no matter how hard the job, it can get done.

Charlene’s ability to energize that Six Sigma team was one of

the key characteristics that got her out of the pile and set her on

GE’s fast track. After Six Sigma and a couple of other leadership

roles, she was made head of GE’s corporate audit staff and eventu-

ally became CEO of GE Fanuc Automation. Today, at thirty-

eight, Charlene is CEO and president of GE’s $3 billion rail

business.

The third E is edge, the courage to make tough yes-or-

no decisions. Look, the world is filled with gray. Anyone can

look at an issue from every different angle. Some smart people

can—and will—analyze those angles indefinitely. But effective

— 85 —

YOUR COMPANY

people know when to stop assessing

Effective people know and make a tough call, even without

total information.

when to stop assessing

Little is worse than a manager at

and make a tough call,

any level who can’t cut bait, the type

even without total that always says, “Bring it back in a

information. Little is month and we’ll take a good, hard

look at it again,” or that awful type

worse than a manager

that says yes to you, but then some-

who can’t cut bait.

one else comes into the room and

changes his mind. We called these

wishy-washy types last-one-out-

the-door bosses.

Some of the smartest people that I’ve hired over the years—

many of them from consulting—had real difficulty with edge,

especially when they were put into operations. In every situation,

they always saw too many options, which inhibited them from

taking action. That indecisiveness kept their organizations in

limbo. In the end, for several of them, that was a fatal flaw.

Which leads us to the fourth E—execute—the ability to

get the job done. Maybe this fourth E seems obvious, but for a

few years, there were just the first three Es. Thinking these traits

were more than sufficient, we evaluated hundreds of people and

labeled a slew of them “high-potentials,” and moved many of

them into managerial roles.

In that period, I traveled to personnel review sessions in the

field with GE’s head of HR, Bill Conaty. At the review sessions,

we would refer to a single page that had each manager’s photo on

it, along with his or her boss’s performance review and three

circles, one for each E we were using at the time. Each one of these

Es would be colored in to represent how well the individual was

— 86 —

HIRING

doing. For instance, a person could

have half a circle of energy, a full cir- Some of the smartest

cle of energize, and a quarter circle

people I hired had real

of edge.

difficulty with edge.

Then one Friday night after a

weeklong trip to our midwestern For several of them,

businesses, Bill and I were flying that was a fatal flaw.

back to headquarters, looking over

page after page of high-potentials

with three solidly colored-in circles. Bill turned to me. “You

know, Jack, we’re missing something,” he said. “We have all these

great people, but some of their results stink.”

What was missing was execution.

It turns out you can have positive energy, energize everyone

around you, make hard calls, and still not get over the finish line.

Being able to execute is a special and distinct skill. It means a per-

son knows how to put decisions into action and push them forward

to completion, through resistance, chaos, or unexpected obstacles.

People who can execute know that winning is about results.

If a candidate has the four Es, then you look for that

final P—passion. By passion, I mean a heartfelt, deep, and

authentic excitement about work. People with passion care—

really care in their bones—about colleagues, employees, and

friends winning. They love to learn and grow, and they get a huge

kick when the people around them do the same.

The funny thing about people with passion, though, is that

they usually aren’t excited just about work. They tend to be pas-

sionate about everything. They’re sports trivia nuts or they’re

fanatical supporters of their alma maters or they’re political

junkies.

Whatever—they just have juice for life in their veins.

— 87 —

YOUR COMPANY

HIRING FOR THE TOP

The three preliminary acid tests and the 4-E (and 1-P) framework

apply to any hiring decision, no matter what level in the organiza-

tion. But sometimes, you need to hire a senior-level leader—

someone who is going to run a major division or an entire

company. In that case, there are four more highly developed char-

acteristics that really matter.

The first characteristic is authenticity. Why? It’s simple. A

person cannot make hard decisions, hold unpopular positions, or

stand tall for what he believes unless he knows who he is and feels

comfortable with that. I am talking about self-confidence and

conviction. These traits make a leader bold and decisive, which is

absolutely critical in times when you must act quickly.

Just as important, authenticity makes leaders likable, for lack of

a better word. Their “realness” comes across in the way they com-

municate and reach people on an emotional level. Their words

move them: their message touches something inside.

When I was at GE, we would occasionally encounter a very

successful executive who just could not be promoted to the next

level. In the early days, we would struggle with our reasoning.

These executives demonstrated the right values and made the