SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: People Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the key characteristics of an effective employee evaluation system, including simplicity, relevance, regular feedback, and professional development.
KEYWORDS: employee evaluation, performance management, professional development
---

■ It should be clear and simple, washed clean of

time-consuming bureaucratic gobbledygook. If

your evaluation system involves more than two

pages of paperwork per person, something is wrong.

I evaluated my twenty or so direct reports with

frequent handwritten notes that included two pieces

— 104 —

PEOPLE MANAGEMENT

of information: what I thought the person did well,

and how I thought they could improve.

■ It should measure people on relevant, agreed-

upon criteria that relate directly to an individual’s

performance. The criteria should be quantitative,

based on how people deliver on certain goals, and

qualitative, based on how they deliver on desired

behaviors.

■ It should ensure that managers evaluate their

people at least once a year, and preferably twice,

in formal, face-to-face sessions. Informal appraisals

should happen all the time. But when it comes to

formal reviews, one of the face-to-face sessions

should let people know where they stand in relation

to others. If your company practices differentiation, a

good evaluation system is where the rubber meets

the road.

■ Finally, a good evaluation system should

include a professional development component.

Managers should not only talk to their employees

about next career steps, but should elicit from them

the names of the two or three people who they

think could replace them should they be promoted.

Even with all these characteristics, no evaluation system is first-

rate unless it is constantly monitored for integrity. Someone has to

have the responsibility—and the accountability—to ask if the

evaluation system is capturing the truth, just as a good audit team

does with the numbers.

— 105 —

YOUR COMPANY

Does the evaluation system really measure company values, or

does it just measure financial results?

Does it really get implemented with sincerity, or do people

blow it off as a waste of time?

Do people really learn at the end of it what they must do to

improve their performance?

Only integrity can keep evaluation systems from becoming

paper-pushing. And since there is no law to make it happen, and

no audit team either, it is up to every boss giving an evaluation—

with the vigorous support of HR—to take this responsibility

upon himself or herself.

You won’t get thrown in jail if you don’t, but do it anyway

because it will make you and your team better.

PRACTICE 3: Create effective mechanisms—read:

money, recognition, and training—to motivate and

retain.

I’ll never forget the time I was at a meeting about how GE should

reward the winner of the Steinmetz Award, given annually to the

company’s best scientist. I was a group VP at the time, and so my

ears really perked up when one of the vice-chairmen, a guy with a

lot of stature and a lot of dough, registered his opinion.

“These people don’t want money,” he said, “they want recog-

nition.”

He must have forgotten where he came from!

Of course, people want to be recognized for great perfor-

mance. Plaques and public fanfare have their place. But without

money, they lose a lot of their impact. Even the Nobel and Pulitzer

prizes come with cash awards.

— 106 —

PEOPLE MANAGEMENT

If your company is managing people well, it tightly aligns good

performance with rewards. The better you do, the more you get—

and you get it in both the soul and the wallet.

There is hardly anything more frustrating than working hard,

meeting or exceeding expectations, and discovering that it doesn’t

matter to your company. You get nothing special, or you get what

everyone else does.

People need to get differentiated rewards and recognition to be

motivated. And companies need to deliver both for retention.

It’s that simple.

Take the case of a woman I know who graduated with a degree

in theater design from an Ivy League college and eagerly went to

work as a buyer at a prestigious New York City retailer. Despite

the grueling hours and low pay, this woman showed immediate

promise. Her selections for the sportswear department broke sales

records for six straight quarters, and she managed to repair the

store’s relationships with two disgruntled vendors. Although it was

not part of the job—and other buyers teased her for “overdoing

it”—she worked the floor and the cash register to better under-

stand her department’s customers.

For two years, this buyer got very little public recognition for

her success. That was bad enough, but her bonus was also stan-

dard—exactly what the company described as average during the

interview process.

She had to quit to find out how

much she was valued. When she Plaques and public

handed in her resignation, her boss fanfare have their place.

was shocked.

But without money,

“But why are you leaving?” she

rewards lose a lot of

asked. “You have a great future here!”

“It’s so draining—no one ever their impact.

tells me I’m doing a good job.”

— 107 —

YOUR COMPANY

“No one ever tells me I’m doing a good job,” her boss shot

back. “That’s just the way it goes here. You’ve got to get a thick

skin.”

Retail is a notoriously tough working environment. But the

practice of not rewarding performance is commonplace in plenty

of industries and one of the main reasons good people leave.

A winning company does not let good people walk out the

door for lack of recognition, financial or otherwise.

Another key way to motivate and retain is through training.

If you’ve hired the right people, they will want to grow. They

will be bursting with the desire to learn and do more. A good

machinist will want to know how to operate more machines

and eventually how to run the shop. A good manufacturing en-

gineer will want to travel to Japan to visit companies using ad-

vanced techniques that he has only read about. A good PR

person will want to learn how to communicate more effectively

on the Web.

Good people never think they have reached the top of their