SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Product Development and Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of questioning, debating, and taking action to drive product development and innovation, using the example of the author's experience with MRI machines.
KEYWORDS: product development, innovation, questioning, debate, action
---

them. On Mondays, I would make a pest of myself with a round

of phone calls, asking the salespeople or the plant manager to ex-

plain everything I didn’t understand. Why, for instance, were we

giving truckload pricing to one customer for small lot sales? Why

was another customer getting a product with black specks?

These questions got the sales team to give our product the

attention it needed and increased my understanding of how it was

sold.

Questioning, however, is never enough. You have to make sure

your questions unleash debate and raise issues that get action.

Remember, just because you are a leader, saying something

doesn’t mean it will happen.

That was the case back in the early ’90s when I was pretty

much obsessed with the idea of an MRI machine with a larger

opening. If you have ever had an MRI, you’ll know what I am

talking about. You lie on your back and are slid inside a tunnel

containing a spinning magnet.

At the time, the tunnel—or bore, as it was called—was very

narrow, and patients were experiencing claustrophobia during the

— 74 —

LEADERSHIP

forty-minute MRI process. Word

was that Hitachi was coming up “We’ll look into it,” they

with a machine with a much wider

kept assuring me. I

bore, but some members of our

was a know-nothing,

medical business dismissed the

product. Hospitals, they said, would meddling pain in the

never accept the low-quality images neck, and they were just

such large-bore machines pro-

trying to mollify me.

duced.

Having experienced an MRI

myself, I just wasn’t convinced. The machines did make you feel

claustrophobic! Every chance I got, I asked the medical team to

look at the situation again. Won’t hospitals compromise image

quality for patient comfort, especially for simple procedures, like

elbows and knees? Won’t the technology eventually improve?

In response, the medical team gave me the all-too-common

business head fake. “We’ll look into it,” they kept assuring me. Of

course they didn’t. I was a know-nothing, meddling pain in the

neck, and they were just trying to mollify me.

A year later, Hitachi rolled out a large-bore machine and

captured a significant piece of the market. We spent two years

playing catch-up.

The last thing I want to sound like with this story is a hero.

Just the opposite.

I should have pushed a whole lot harder with my questioning.

In fact, I should have insisted we put resources into developing our

own large-bore machine. All we were left with at the end was me

thinking, “I knew it,”and wanting to say, “I told you so.”

Both of those sentiments are worth nothing. You would

assume that was obvious, but I’ve seen more leaders believe that

second-guessing absolves them from responsibility when things

go wrong. Years ago, I used to see a well-known CEO socially on

— 75 —

YOUR COMPANY

a fairly regular basis. Whenever his company had been in the news

for screwing up, he’d always say something like, “I knew they

shouldn’t have done that.” For some reason that made him feel

better, but what did it matter?

We’ve all been guilty at one point or another in our careers of

boasting of perfect hindsight.

It’s a terrible sin.

If you don’t make sure your questions and concerns are acted

upon, it doesn’t count.

I realize most people don’t love the probing process. It’s annoy-

ing to believe in a product or come into a room with a beautiful

presentation only to have it picked apart with questions from the

boss.

But that’s the job. You want bigger and better solutions. Ques-

tions, healthy debate, decisions, and action will get everyone there.

RULE 7. Leaders inspire risk taking and learning by

setting the example.

Winning companies embrace risk taking and learning.

But in reality, these two concepts often get lip service—and

little else. Too many managers urge their people to try new things

and then whack them in the head when they fail. And too many

live in not-invented-here worlds of their own making.

If you want your people to experiment and expand their

minds, set the example yourself.

Consider risk taking. You can create a culture that welcomes

risk taking by freely admitting your mistakes and talking about

what you’ve learned from them.

I cannot count the number of times I’ve told people about my

— 76 —

LEADERSHIP

first big mistake—and it was huge—blowing up a pilot plant in

Pittsfield, Massachusetts, in 1963. I was across the street in my of-

fice when the explosion occurred, set off by a spark igniting a large

tank of volatile solution. The noise was enormous, and then roof

shingles and shards of glass flew everywhere. Smoke blanketed the

area. Thank God no one was hurt.

Despite the enormity of my mistake, my boss’s boss, a former

MIT professor named Charlie Reed, didn’t beat me up. Instead, his

sympathetic, scientific probing of the reasons for the incident taught

me not only how to improve our manufacturing process, but more

importantly, how to deal with people when they were down.

That wasn’t the only mistake in my career; I made plenty. I

bought the investment bank Kidder Peabody—a cultural fit disas-

ter—and made many wrong hires, to name just two more.

These experiences were nothing to feel great about, but I

talked about them openly in order to show that it was OK to take

swings and miss, as long as you learned from them.

You don’t need to be preachy or particularly somber about

your errors. In fact, the more humorous and lighthearted you can

be about them, the more people will get the message that mistakes

aren’t fatal.

As for learning—again, live it yourself. Just because you’re the

boss doesn’t mean you’re the source of all knowledge. Whenever I

learned about a best practice that I liked at another company, I

would come back to GE and make a

scene. Maybe I often overstated the