SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Uncategorized
SUMMARY: Could not generate summary
KEYWORDS: 
---

ing” as to how business could be done.

“Once Kenneth realized that the stretch approach had a safety

net, he really bought into the idea that stretching, even without

getting there, could be a whole lot better than the old game,” Jim

recalls.

Rather than come to Jim with the usual conservative growth

plan and then beating it, Kenneth presented an operating plan to

catapult the China operation to 40 percent annual growth. It

involved bold, wide-open thinking about possibilities. For 2002,

Kenneth proposed increasing 3M’s R & D investment in China in

order to introduce many local product adaptations, and promoted

new plant investment to support rapid growth.

In three years, 3M’s business in Greater China has grown from

$520 million to $1.3 billion, with ambitious plans for the future.

This does not mean, of course, that stretch has totally taken

hold at 3M. Jim says people are still getting used to the change, but

they have definitely come to see that the company now celebrates

and rewards people who think big. Today, “budgeting” at 3M is

not about delivering good-enough plans and beating them. It’s

about having the courage and zeal to reach for what can be done.

Doesn’t that sound like more fun than budgeting? And it

works better too.

A WORD OF CAUTION

Before we finish up this chapter, I just want to make sure that I am

not making this change sound too easy. Experience has shown me

that while most people take to reinvented budgeting with enthu-

siasm, there are always a few diehards who do not and with their

actions try to undermine it. Usually, these people are too steeped

in tradition to let go of the old link between targets and bonuses.

— 202 —

BUDGETING

Sometimes they are just jerks. But

whatever the reason, I would be a While most people take

Pollyanna if I did not acknowledge

to reinvented budgeting

that these types of managers haunt

with enthusiasm, there

every company that switches over

to the stretch approach. At GE, we are always a few diehards

never found or converted them all, who try to undermine it.

but we never stopped trying.

Here’s the modus operandi of

these types: At the outset of the financial planning cycle, they

appear to heartily buy into the new program and ask their people

for big stretch goals. Then, without openly admitting it, they take

the team’s stretch goal and use it as a commitment number—an

old-fashioned budget target. When the end of the year rolls

around, these managers take terrible advantage of their people.

They identify the stretch number as the target, and they nail the

team for not hitting it.

This behavior stinks, and it sets the whole process back by

demonstrating to the people in the trenches that they can’t trust it.

Next time when they’re asked to dream, you can be sure their

dreams will be very small.

Part of the transformation process to a nonbudgeting company

is to find the managers who pull this bait and switch. Call them on

it, and take whatever action you need to make sure it doesn’t

happen again.

■

When I talk to business audiences about the right way to

budget, regardless of industry or country. I often get the same

question: “The budgeting process in my company is too

entrenched to change the way you describe. What can I do?”

— 203 —

YOUR COMPETITION

My answer is not to give up. It’s too important.

It may be awkward at first, but change begins when you start

talking, and one conversation leads to another and then another.

Everyone knows about the Negotiated Settlement and Phony

Smile dynamics, they’ve lived them, and they know that they take

the energy and reality out of budgeting. So when you bring them

up, people may not know how to deal with it—but they can’t just

walk away.

The subject will resonate.

The fact is, there is a way to approach budgeting that blows it

up and puts something much better in its place. It’s a system that

can take a Chinese industrial business with modest annual growth

and transform it into an enterprise growing 40-plus percent a

year. It can inspire people to keep innovating and becoming more

productive every day, even when global competition seems insur-

mountable. It can take people who once sat across the table from

one another during debates about nothing less than the company’s

direction and future and put them on the same side.

Very simply, the right “budget” process can change the way

companies compete.

People usually groan when you mention budgeting—it’s a

necessary evil.

It doesn’t have to be. It shouldn’t be. But the change to a better

way has to start somewhere—how about with you?

— 204 —

13

Organic Growth

SO YOU WANT TO

START SOMETHING NEW

ONE OF THE MOST EXHILARAT ING things about

being in business is starting something new from inside

something old—launching a product line or service, for example,

or moving into a new global market. Not only is it a blast, it is one

of the most rewarding paths to growth.

Another route to growth, of course, is through mergers and ac-

quisitions, which we’ll look at in the next chapter. Here we’re

going to talk about companies getting bigger organically.

Now, starting something new from within an established com-

pany is easier said than done for one good reason.

It requires managers to act against many of their perfectly rea-

sonable instincts.

Few typical corporate managers, for instance, have the burning

desire to send their best people to start up a manufacturing facility

halfway around the world or to pour R & D dollars into a risky

new technology. Nor do many have the urge to give new ven-

tures, at home or abroad, a lot of leeway.

— 205 —

YOUR COMPETITION

But to give any new venture a fighting chance to succeed, you