SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of managing organizational change by addressing resisters and embracing bold, unpredictable opportunities.
KEYWORDS: change management, resisters, organizational transformation, opportunities, decision-making
---

keeping resisters in your organization. They foster an under-

ground resistance and lower the morale of the people who sup-

port change. They waste their own time at a company where they

don’t share the vision, and they should be encouraged to find one

where they do.

Take this extraordinary example. It’s about Bill Harrison, the

CEO of JPMorgan Chase, who asked a well-respected, high-level

executive to leave during his change process at the bank. His move

was even more stunning in that Bill did it when his own political

capital was low—in the middle of the Enron collapse, when many

people wondered if Bill would personally take the fall for the bank’s

loans to Enron and to other high-profile troubled companies.

During this period, Bill was instituting an executive training

initiative focused on transforming the newly merged JPMorgan

and Chase into a more market-focused bank, a big change for an

institution whose businesses, like many of those on Wall Street,

prided themselves on their individuality. The biggest resister was

the CEO of one of JPMorgan

Chase’s major businesses, a true star

Managers often hold on

in his own right. He preferred the

to resisters because of a

lone-wolf culture of an investment

specific skill set or bank and launched a quiet revolt

over Bill’s direction.

because they’ve been

So Bill asked him to leave. It

around for a long

took tremendous courage given the

time. Don’t!

circumstances. But Bill knew, and he

was right, that the transformation of

— 142 —

CHANGE

JPMorgan Chase could not move forward with such a resister—

and his following—in the way. Candor and fairness made the

departure go well. And Bill’s program went on to succeed too. In a

survey of all bank executives taken two years after his leadership

program started, those who participated in the initiative had a

favorable impression of the bank’s direction twenty points higher

than those who had not participated.

From a management perspective, few cases of removing

resisters are as difficult as the one Bill Harrison faced. But even

when a situation is not nearly as political or fraught, I have seen

managers hold on to resisters because of a specific skill set or

because they’ve been around for a long time.

Don’t!

Resisters only get more diehard and their followings more

entrenched as time goes on. They are change killers; cut them off

early.

4. Look at car wrecks.

Most companies capitalize on obvious opportunities. When a

competitor fails, they move in on their customers. When a new

technology emerges, they invest in it and create product line

extensions.

But to be a real change organization, you also have to have the

guts to look at bolder, scarier, more unpredictable events, and

assess and make the most of the opportunities they present. This

capability takes a certain determination and sometimes a strong

stomach, but the rewards can be huge.

Take the 1997 Asian financial crisis. Currency traders certainly

capitalized on this awful event; they live on exploiting change. But

— 143 —

YOUR COMPANY

they’re not the only ones who

It goes without saying should do this. GE had real success

buying undervalued Thai auto loans

that no businessperson

in this period. Others prospered by

wants disasters to occur,

buying real estate at fire sale prices.

but they will. The Japanese banking woes of

the ’90s gave numerous companies a

chance to pick up assets at attractive

prices and participate in a market

that had previously been closed to them. Companies like the buy-

out firm Ripplewood Holdings, AIG, Citigroup, and GE, to name

a few, made huge gambles in a horrible-looking environment that

had just about every pundit predicting the permanent demise

of Japan. Those bets are turning out to be big winners as Japan

recovers.

Bankruptcies are another calamity that provide all kinds of

opportunities. They’re tragic to the employees. Jobs are lost, and

pensions disappear into thin air. But jobs and futures can also be

created from the cinders. When Enron fell apart—a tragic business

story if there ever was one—Warren Buffett was able to take a

position in its former pipeline business at a bargain-basement

price. And GE picked up its wind power business at what it

considered a very good price. The Vivendi collapse was a disaster

for CEO Jean-Marie Messier, many employees, and company

shareholders. But its financial needs provided the opportunity for

Edgar Bronfman to reenter the music business at an attractive

price and for GE to purchase terrific media assets.

It goes without saying that no businessperson wants disasters to

occur, but they will. There will be spikes in oil prices, buildings

will be destroyed in earthquakes, companies will go bankrupt, and

countries will come close. In today’s world, there is the persistent

threat of a terrorist attack. Yet even if terrorism is eventually

— 144 —

CHANGE

contained—unfortunately, something that is not imminent—

there will always be elections and revolutions that change the

course of history.

Most companies take advantage of obvious opportunities.

But some also have the ability to make the most of regrettable

circumstances—those “car wrecks”—and they should. Since

9/11, for instance, an entirely new kind of security industry has

emerged. Of course, you wish with everything in you that such an

industry didn’t have to exist. But these companies will benefit for

having realized that change means seizing every opportunity, even

the ones wrought by adversity.

■

With all the noise out there about change, it’s easy to get over-

whelmed and confused.

But there are really just four practices that matter: Communi-

cate a sound rationale for every change. Have the right people at

your side. Get rid of the resisters. And seize every single opportu-

nity, even those from someone else’s misfortune. That’s it.

Don’t get all caught up in your knickers over change.

You just don’t need to.

— 145 —

10

Crisis Management

FROM OH-GOD-NO TO

YES-WE’RE-FINE

IT’S N O WO NDER that crisis management is often referred