SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Uncategorized
SUMMARY: API error during classification
KEYWORDS: 
---

YOUR COMPANY

off your shoulders. Dinner that

Yes, the employee has night tastes better than it has in a

while.

done a poor job. But

Your employee is in another

until he departs, your job

emotional time zone, to put it

is to make sure he doesn’t mildly.

feel as if he is in a leper Even if he has been well pre-

pared by candid evaluations, he is

colony.

crushed—his self-esteem is in the

tank. If you’ve done everything

right, he won’t be surprised, but he could still be feeling terribly

sad and hurt.

The next day at work is when you must start to act against your

instincts. Yes, the employee has done a poor job, and yes, he has

taken up a disproportionate amount of your time and energy al-

ready. But until he departs, your job is to make sure he doesn’t feel

as if he is in a leper colony.

Build up his self-confidence. Coach him. Let him know there

is a good job for him out there, where his skills are a better match.

You may even help him find that job. Your goal for the fired

employee is a soft landing wherever he goes.

A firing may take an hour, but someone’s departure can take six

months. You’ll save a lot of pain—and preserve a lot of pride—if

you don’t rush it.

■

The unfortunate reality is, firings are a part of business. But that

doesn’t mean they have to end up as the bitter messes they often

do. If you handle them right, they’ll never be enjoyable, but they

can be tolerable for all involved.

— 130 —

PARTING WAYS

The legacy of a firing lasts a long time—for you, your com-

pany, and, most of all, the person who has been fired.

Obviously, if your company is collapsing, you can’t handle lay-

offs with kid gloves. And if someone has an integrity violation,

you need to kick that person out the door, and fast.

But for everyone else, leaving for reasons more in the gray area,

remember that every time there is a parting of ways, you own the

process.

When it’s time to let someone go, do it right. No surprises. No

humiliation.

— 131 —

9

Change

MOUNTAINS DO MOVE

I’M SURE YO U’VE NOT ICED the hand-wringing and

hyperventilating about change out there. For more than a

decade, there has been a whole industry devoted to the topic, all of

it selling pretty much the same line: change or die.

Well . . . it’s true.

Change is an absolutely critical part of business.You do need to

change, preferably before you have to.

What you’ve heard about resistance to change is also true.

People hate it when their bosses announce a “transformation ini-

tiative.” They run back to their cubicles and frantically start

e-mailing one another with reasons it’s going to ruin every-

thing.

Frankly, most people hate it when they find out their favorite

coffee shop is closing. The Times of London changed to a tabloid

format, and the editor told me he received a letter asking him how

it felt to be the person responsible for ending Western civilization.

People love familiarity and patterns. They cling to them. The

— 133 —

YOUR COMPANY

phenomenon is so entrenched it can only be chalked up to human

nature.

But attributing a behavior to human nature doesn’t mean you

have to be controlled by it. Yes, managing change can sometimes

feel like moving a mountain. But managing change can also be

incredibly exciting and rewarding, particularly when you start

seeing results.

During my years at GE, we were in a pretty constant state of

change. Most companies today are. You have to be if you want to

stay in the game, let alone win.

That said, I realize that change is not a layup. Over the past

couple of years, I have been struck by the number of people at

Q & A sessions who have asked me, “My organization needs to

change. How can I get them to do it when everyone wants things

to stay the same?” The question is usually delivered with a level of

despair.

My first answer always is a question back. “Are you really the

only person who sees a need for change?” I ask. “If you are, and

you don’t have some authority, make your case, and if you don’t

get anywhere, learn to live with the situation or get out.”

But if the situation is not that extreme—that is, you have the

power to get things done and a few supporters as well—then you

can make something happen.

It comes down to embracing four practices:

1. Attach every change initiative to a clear purpose

or goal. Change for change’s sake is stupid and

enervating.

2. Hire and promote only true believers and get-on-

with-it types.

— 134 —

CHANGE

3. Ferret out and get rid of resisters, even if their

performance is satisfactory.

4. Look at car wrecks.

If a company’s leaders implement these practices with passion and

reward everyone else who buys in, eventually all the noise around

change will stop sounding like noise. Change will become busi-

ness as usual—the norm—and when it does, mountains do move.

I’ve seen it happen, and it’s not as earth-shattering as it’s made

out to be.

Now for the practices in more detail.

1. Attach every change initiative to a clear purpose or

goal. Change for change’s sake is stupid and ener-

vating.

It is a disaster when companies take all the hype about change

literally and grab every new management fad that comes down

the pike. It’s change overload! Some big companies adopt ten

different change initiatives at once and run in eight different

directions. Nothing meaningful ever happens in these flavor-of-

the-month kinds of situations except that, for most employees,

work feels very frantic and disorganized.

Actually, change should be a relatively orderly process.