SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Uncategorized
SUMMARY: API error during classification
KEYWORDS: 
---

wrongly—by people seeking nothing more than revenge for a

firing conducted by a manager who should have and could have

done it better.

And now for the third mistake. It

Every person who leaves occurs when a firing happens too

slowly and you get a kind of Dead

goes on to represent your

Man Walking effect. Everyone

company. They can

knows a person is about to be fired,

bad-mouth or praise.

including the person himself, but

the boss waits a long time to pull the

— 126 —

PARTING WAYS

trigger. The result is enormous awk-

wardness in the office that can lead to a Unfortunately, it took

form of paralysis.

about a year before

I’ve seen the Dead Man Walking ef-

Steve was let go. At

fect more times than I care to remem-

ber. I can recall a staff meeting at every staff meeting, we

headquarters when I was a division VP. watched in agony as the

About ten people were there, includ-

self-confidence seeped

ing one of my peers—“Steve”—who

out of him.

had been having consistently bad re-

sults. Before the meeting even started,

everyone already sensed that Steve was

a goner. But once the meeting began, the discomfort got worse.

The group’s boss picked apart Steve’s quarterly results and wouldn’t

allow Steve to open his mouth for a rebuttal. Steve could do noth-

ing right. At the coffee break, everyone milled around, avoiding

Steve as much as possible. None of us could look him in the eye.

Unfortunately, it took about a year before Steve was let go. At

every staff meeting, we watched in agony as the self-confidence

seeped out of him. You just knew the people in Steve’s businesses

had to be crippled, as they were undoubtedly seeing the same

thing and were only waiting to find out who his replacement

would be.

The question, of course, is why do bosses allow the Dead Man

Walking effect to occur? One reason is that firing is so tough that

no one likes to do it, and so the event often gets delayed. But with

the Dead Man situation, something more subtle is often going on.

Bosses let an employee twist in the wind because they want the

victim’s peers to see—and, figuratively speaking, sign off on—the

necessity of the firing decision. In a way it’s cruel, but most bosses

would rather be known as careful than quick-triggered.

— 127 —

YOUR COMPANY

Richard, Gail, and Steve are examples of how firing goes

wrong. How can you get it right?

FIRST, NO SURPRISES

You can take the surprise out of economic downturn layoffs with

lots of financial information. But how do you take the surprise out

of gray-area nonperformance firings?

We’ve actually already dealt with that question in the chapters

preceding this one—in those discussing candor, differentiation,

and good people management practices. In particular, the answer

lies in using a rigorous evaluation system, with its regular formal

and informal reviews. Very simply, a good performance evaluation

process informs and prepares people in the fairest, most open way

I know.

If people know where they stand, in fact, a firing actually never

happens. Instead, when things are not working out, eventually

there is a mutual understanding that it’s time to part ways.

In this kind of environment, where the employee is doing OK

but not quite what you want, it can take a couple of years for the

endgame to be clear to everyone. Over that time period, there will

be many candid conversations about performance and career

goals. The possibility of parting ways will have been raised and dis-

cussed openly.

In the ideal situation, the last conversation will go like

this:

BOSS: Well, I think you know what this meeting is about.

EMPLOYEE: Yes, I guess I do. So, what are your thoughts on tim-

ing and what’s the deal?

Moreover, as a result of this process, sometimes you get lucky,

and the employee will come to you first:

— 128 —

PARTING WAYS

EMPLOYEE: I’ve got a great job offer, and I think I’m going to

go for it. What do you think?

BOSS: What a great career move for you. I think you should

take it.

These kinds of partings are rarely acrimonious, and surprise is

the last thing anyone feels.

Cases like Richard, Gail, and Steve can never be eliminated en-

tirely, but with candid and consistent evaluation processes in place,

they can become less and less common every year.

SECOND, MINIMIZE HUMILIATION

To take the stinging embarrassment out of a firing, you first have

to understand the emotional timeline of the experience.

For the boss, the timeline begins long before the actual event.

In preparing for it, you feel nervous, frustrated, and anguished.

Unless you are a complete jerk, you dread the whole thing, espe-

cially the conversation itself. For weeks, you lose sleep, rehearsing

how it will go. You talk to your spouse or best friend about the sit-

uation to help get your nerve up.

Meanwhile, your employee is scared, but from my experience,

usually optimistic until the end. Denial is the operative emotion.

Most people walk into termination meetings hoping against hope

this isn’t the day, a feeling usually mixed with gut-wrenching fear.

So, the day finally comes, and you sit down.

You deliver the bad news, and suddenly you feel relieved; the

anxiety flows out of you. It’s over, you think. I did it kindly, I said

nice things. The package is fair. Phew. At last I can get on to other

work, including hiring someone great to fill the soon-to-be-

vacant spot. You go home feeling that a terrible weight is finally

— 129 —

YOUR COMPANY

off your shoulders. Dinner that

Yes, the employee has night tastes better than it has in a

while.

done a poor job. But

Your employee is in another

until he departs, your job

emotional time zone, to put it

is to make sure he doesn’t mildly.