SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Productivity
SUMMARY: The text discusses how GE's Work-Out program led to an explosion in productivity by engaging employees and tapping into their knowledge and ideas.
KEYWORDS: employee engagement, productivity, work-out program, employee ideas, GE
---

years, until they became a way of life in the company. They are no

longer big events but part of how GE goes about solving prob-

lems.

Whether it was a refrigeration plant in Louisville, Kentucky,

where employees debated faster and better paint systems, or a jet

engine plant in Rutland, Vermont, where employees had recom-

mendations on how to cut cycle time in blade manufacturing, or a

credit card processing facility in Cincinnati, where employees had

ideas about billing efficiency, Work-Outs led to an explosion in

productivity.

They brought every brain into the game.

A middle-aged appliance worker who was at one Work-Out

spoke for thousands of people when he told me,“For twenty-five

years, you paid for my hands when you could have had my brain as

well—for nothing.”

At last, because of Work-Out, we were getting both. In fact, I

— 56 —

VOICE AND DIGNITY

believe Work-Out was responsible for one of the most profound

changes in GE during my time there. For the vast majority of

employees, the boss-knows-all culture disappeared.

■

A big bureaucracy like GE needed something as systematized

as Work-Out to break the ice and get people to open up. But it is

not the only method to make sure that your team or company is

getting every voice heard. Find an approach that feels right to you.

I’m not saying that everyone’s opinions should be put into

practice or every single complaint needs to be satisfied. That’s

what management judgment is all about. Obviously, some people

have better ideas than others; some people are smarter or more

experienced or more creative. But everyone should be heard and

respected.

They want it and you need it.

— 57 —

YOUR COMPANY

5. LEADERSHIP

It’s Not Just About You 61

6. HIRING

What Winners Are Made Of 81

7. PEOPLE MANAGEMENT

You’ve Got the Right Players. Now What? 97

8. PARTING WAYS

Letting Go Is Hard to Do 119

9. CHANGE

Mountains Do Move 133

10. CRISIS MANAGEMENT

From Oh-God-No to Yes-We’re-Fine 147

5

Leadership

IT’S NOT JUST ABOUT YOU

ONE DA Y , you become a leader.

On Monday, you’re doing what comes naturally, enjoying

your job, running a project, talking and laughing with colleagues

about life and work, and gossiping about how stupid management

can be. Then on Tuesday, you are management. You’re a boss.

Suddenly, everything feels different—because it is different.

Leadership requires distinct behaviors and attitudes, and for many

people, they debut with the job.

Before you are a leader, success is all about growing yourself.

When you become a leader, success is all about growing others.

Without question, there are lots of ways to be a leader. You

need to look only as far as the freewheeling, straight-talking Herb

Kelleher, who ran Southwest Airlines for thirty years, and Mi-

crosoft’s quiet innovator, Bill Gates, to know that leaders come in

all varieties. In politics, take Churchill and Gandhi. In football, take

Lombardi and Belichick.

— 61 —

YOUR COMPANY

Each of these leaders would give you a different list of leader-

ship “rules.”

If asked, I would give you eight. They didn’t feel like rules

when I was using them. They just felt like the right way to lead.

This is not the last you will hear of leadership in this book.

Virtually every chapter touches on the subject, from crisis man-

agement to strategy to work-life balance.

But I’m starting with a separate chapter on leadership because

it is always on people’s minds. Over the past three years, during

my talks with students, managers, and entrepreneurs, leadership

questions invariably were asked. “What does a leader really do?”

for instance, and “I was just promoted and I’ve never run anything

before. How can I be a good leader?” Micromanagement often

comes up as an area of concern, as in, “My boss feels as if he has to

control everything—is that leadership or babysitting?” Similarly,

charisma gets a lot of queries; people ask, “Can you be introverted,

quiet, or just plain shy and still get results out of your people?”

Once, in Chicago, an audience member said, “I have at least two

direct reports who are smarter than I am. How can I possibly

appraise them?”

These kinds of questions have pushed me to make sense of my

own leadership experiences over forty years. Across the decades,

circumstances varied widely. I ran teams with three people and

divisions with thirty thousand. I managed businesses that were

dying and ones that were bursting with growth. There were

acquisitions, divestitures, organizational crises, moments of unex-

pected luck, good economies and bad.

And yet, some ways of leading always seemed to work. They

became my “rules.”

■

— 62 —

LEADERSHIP

■

WHAT LEADERS DO

1. Leaders relentlessly upgrade their team, using every

encounter as an opportunity to evaluate, coach, and

build self-confidence.

2. Leaders make sure people not only see the vision,

they live and breathe it.

3. Leaders get into everyone’s skin, exuding positive

energy and optimism.

4. Leaders establish trust with candor, transparency,

and credit.

5. Leaders have the courage to make unpopular deci-

sions and gut calls.

6. Leaders probe and push with a curiosity that bor-

ders on skepticism, making sure their questions are

answered with action.

7. Leaders inspire risk taking and learning by setting

the example.

8. Leaders celebrate.

■

— 63 —

YOUR COMPANY

THE DAILY BALANCING ACT

Before we look at each rule, a word on paradoxes. Leadership is

loaded with them.

The granddaddy of them all is the short-long paradox, as in the

question I often get: “How can I manage quarterly results and still

do what’s right for my business five years out?”

My answer is, “Welcome to the job!”

Look, anyone can manage for the short term—just keep

squeezing the lemon. And anyone can manage for the long—just

keep dreaming. You were made a leader because someone

believed you could squeeze and dream at the same time. They saw