SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Mission and Values
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of defining a clear mission and concrete values for a business, and the consequences of failing to do so, as seen in the examples of Arthur Andersen and Enron.
KEYWORDS: mission, values, organizational culture, business ethics, corporate collapse
---

point A to point B cheaply and quickly, a mission they accom-

plished very well by having expertise in energy sourcing and dis-

tribution.

Then, like Arthur Andersen, the company changed missions.

Someone got the idea to turn Enron into a trading company.

Again, the goal was faster growth.

At Arthur Andersen, auditors wearing green eyeshades were

suddenly sharing office space with MBAs in Armani suits. At

Enron—again, figuratively speaking—the guys in coveralls were

suddenly riding the elevator with MBAs in suspenders.

Enron’s new mission meant it focused first on trading energy

and then on trading anything and everything. That change was

probably pretty exciting at the time, but obviously no one stopped

to figure out and explicitly broadcast what values and correspond-

ing behaviors would support such a heady goal. The trading desk

was the place to be, and the pipeline and energy generation busi-

nesses got shoved to the background. Unfortunately, there were

no processes to provide checks and balances for the suspenders

crowd. And it was in that context—of no context—that Enron’s col-

lapse occurred.

— 23 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

Like Arthur Andersen’s, this story of a mission and values dis-

connect ends with thousands of innocent people losing their jobs.

What a tragedy.

■

This chapter opened with the observation that people in busi-

ness talk a lot about mission and values, but too often the result is

more hot air than real action. No one wants it that way, but the

loftiness and the imprecision inherent in both terms always seem

to make it end up like that.

But there is too much to lose by not getting your mission

straight and by not making your values concrete. I’m not saying

your company will collapse in flames the way Arthur Andersen

and Enron did—they are extreme examples of a mission-and-

values meltdown. But I am saying your company will not reach

anywhere near its full potential if all that is guiding it is a list of

pleasant platitudes hanging on the lobby wall.

Look, I realize that defining a good mission and developing the

values that support it takes time and enormous commitment.

There will be long, contentious meetings when you would rather

go home. There will be e-mail debates when you wish you could

just go do real work. There will be painful times when you have to

say good-bye to people you really like who just do not get the

mission or live its values. On days like those, you might wish your

mission and values were vague and generic.

They can’t be.

Take the time. Spend the energy.

Make them real.

— 24 —

2

Candor

THE BIGGEST DIRTY LITTLE

SECRET IN BUSINESS

IHAV E ALW A Y S BEEN a huge proponent of candor. In fact,

I talked it up to GE audiences for more than twenty years.

But since retiring from GE, I have come to realize that I un-

derestimated its rarity. In fact, I would call lack of candor the

biggest dirty little secret in business.

What a huge problem it is. Lack of candor basically blocks

smart ideas, fast action, and good people contributing all the stuff

they’ve got. It’s a killer.

When you’ve got candor—and you’ll never completely get it,

mind you—everything just operates faster and better.

Now, when I say “lack of candor” here, I’m not talking about

malevolent dishonesty. I am talking about how too many peo-

ple—too often—instinctively don’t express themselves with

frankness. They don’t communicate straightforwardly or put forth

ideas looking to stimulate real debate. They just don’t open up. In-

stead they withhold comments or criticism. They keep their

— 25 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

mouths shut in order to make peo-

Lack of candor blocks ple feel better or to avoid conflict,

and they sugarcoat bad news in

smart ideas, fast action,

order to maintain appearances.

and good people

They keep things to themselves,

contributing all the stuff hoarding information.

they’ve got. It’s a killer. That’s all lack of candor, and it’s

absolutely damaging.

And yet, lack of candor perme-

ates almost every aspect of business.

In my travels over the past few years, I have heard stories from

people at hundreds of different companies who describe the com-

plete lack of candor they experience day to day, in every type of

meeting, from budget and product reviews to strategy sessions.

People talk about the bureaucracy, layers, politicking, and false po-

liteness that lack of candor spawns. They ask how they can get their

companies to be places where people put their views on the table,

talk about the world realistically, and debate ideas from every angle.

Most often, I hear that lack of candor is missing from perfor-

mance appraisals.

In fact, I hear about that so often that I always end up asking

audiences for a show of hands to the question “How many of you

have received an honest, straight-between-the-eyes feedback ses-

sion in the last year, where you came out knowing exactly what

you have to do to improve and where you stand in the organi-

zation?”

On a good day, I get 20 percent of the hands up. Most of the

time, it is closer to 10 percent.

Interestingly, when I turn the question around and ask the au-

dience how often they’ve given an honest, candid appraisal to their

people, the numbers don’t improve much.

— 26 —

CANDOR

Forget outside competition when your own worst enemy is

the way you communicate with one another internally!

THE CANDOR EFFECT

Let’s look at how candor leads to winning. There are three main

ways.

First and foremost, candor gets more people in the conversa-

tion, and when you get more people in the conversation, to state

the obvious, you get idea rich. By that, I mean many more ideas

get surfaced, discussed, pulled apart, and improved. Instead of

everyone shutting down, everyone opens up and learns. Any orga-