SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Leadership Characteristics
SUMMARY: The text discusses three key characteristics of effective leaders: authenticity, the ability to anticipate the unexpected, and the willingness to surround themselves with talented people.
KEYWORDS: leadership, authenticity, foresight, talent management
---

move them: their message touches something inside.

When I was at GE, we would occasionally encounter a very

successful executive who just could not be promoted to the next

level. In the early days, we would struggle with our reasoning.

These executives demonstrated the right values and made the

numbers, but usually their people did not connect with them.

What was wrong? Finally, we figured out that these executives al-

ways had a certain phoniness to them.They pretended to be some-

thing they were not—more in control, more upbeat, more savvy

than they really were. They didn’t sweat. They didn’t cry. They

squirmed in their own skin, playing a role of their own inventing.

Leaders can’t have an iota of fakeness. They have to know

themselves—so that they can be straight with the world, energize

followers, and lead with the authority born of authenticity.

— 88 —

HIRING

The second characteristic is the ability to see around

corners. Every leader has to have a vision and the ability to pre-

dict the future, but good leaders must have a special capacity to

anticipate the radically unexpected. In business, the best leaders in

brutally competitive environments have a sixth sense for market

changes, as well as moves by existing competitors and new

entrants.

The former vice-chairman of GE, Paolo Fresco, is a gifted

chess player. He carried that skill into every global business deal he

made over the course of thirty years. Somehow, because of his

intuition and savvy, he could put himself in the chair of the person

across the table, allowing him to predict every move in a negotia-

tion. To our amazement, Paolo always saw what was coming next.

No one ever came close to getting the better of him—because he

knew what his “adversary” was thinking before the adversary

himself knew.

The ability to see around corners is the ability to imagine the

unimaginable.

The third characteristic is a strong penchant to sur-

round themselves with people better and smarter than

they are. Every time we had a crisis

at GE, I would quickly assemble a

group of the smartest, gutsiest peo-

The best leaders in

ple I could find at any level from

brutally competitive

within the company and sometimes

environments have a

from without, and lean on them

heavily for their knowledge and ad- sixth sense for

vice. I would make sure everyone in

market changes. They

the room came at the problem from

can imagine the

a different angle, and then I would

unimaginable.

have us all wallow in the informa-

tion as we worked to solve the crisis.

— 89 —

YOUR COMPANY

These sessions were almost always contentious, and the opinions

that came at me strong and varied. And yet, my best decisions arose

from what I learned in these debates. Disagreement surfaced

meaningful questions and forced us to challenge assumptions.

Everyone came out of the experience more informed and better

prepared to take on the next crisis.

A good leader has the courage to put together a team of people

who sometimes make him look like the dumbest person in the

room! I know that sounds counterintuitive. You want your leader

to be the smartest person in the room—but if he acts as if he is, he

won’t get half the pushback he must get to make the best deci-

sions.

The fourth characteristic is heavy-duty resilience. Every

leader makes mistakes, every leader stumbles and falls. The ques-

tion with a senior-level leader is, does she learn from her mistakes,

regroup, and then get going again with renewed speed, convic-

tion, and confidence?

The name for this trait is resilience, and it is so important that a

leader must have it going into a job because if she doesn’t, a crisis

time is too late to learn it. That is why, when I placed people in

new leadership situations, I always looked for candidates who had

one or two very tough experiences. I particularly liked the people

who had had the wind knocked clear out of them but proved they

could run even harder in the next race.

The global business world today is going to knock any leader

off her horse more than once. She must know how to get back in

the saddle again.

HIRING FAQS

Finally, let’s look at the six FAQs—frequently asked questions—

I’ve received about hiring over the past several years. At the end of

— 90 —

HIRING

them, I will try (at last) to answer the insurance executive from San

Diego about the one best question to ask in an interview. As I said

earlier, I’ve been thinking about it for a long time now.

1. How do you actually interview somebody for a job?

My immediate answer to this question is: don’t ever rely entirely

on one meeting!

No matter how pressed for time you are or how promising

someone looks, make sure every candidate is interviewed by sev-

eral people. Over time, you will find that there are some people in

your organization who have a special gift for picking out stars and

phonies. Rely on them. (Bill Conaty, my HR head, was a master at

this. Whether it was with a handshake, a smile, or a way of talking

about their family, job candidates were transparent to him.) And

listen when a trusted colleague tells you that his or her gut is neg-

atively responding to a candidate. That uh-oh feeling is usually a

sign that the candidate is not what he seems.

At some point in the interview process, when it’s your turn,

make sure you exaggerate the challenge of the open job; describe

it on its worst day—hard, contentious, political, full of uncertainty.

As you crank it up, see if the candidate keeps saying, “Yes, yes, yes!”

If he does, you should worry that he has few other options, if any.

You may even be his sole hope of

employment.

Be impressed if the candidate

I particularly liked the