SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: People Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses six fundamental practices for effective people management in a company, emphasizing the importance of elevating HR to a position of power and primacy.
KEYWORDS: HR management, employee evaluation, organizational structure, people management practices
---

believed the people part was how I could help GE the most.

— 97 —

YOUR COMPANY

People management covers a wide range of activities, but it

really comes down to six fundamental practices.

No person can undertake these activities alone—far from it—

so let me phrase them as company-wide practices. To manage

people well, companies should:

1. Elevate HR to a position of power and primacy in

the organization, and make sure HR people have the

special qualities to help managers build leaders and

careers. In fact, the best HR types are pastors and

parents in the same package.

2. Use a rigorous, nonbureaucratic evaluation

system, monitored for integrity with the same

intensity as Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance.

3. Create effective mechanisms—read: money,

recognition, and training—to motivate and retain.

4. Face straight into charged relationships—with

unions, stars, sliders, and disrupters.

5. Fight gravity, and instead of taking the middle 70

percent for granted, treat them like the heart and

soul of the organization.

6. Design the org chart to be as flat as possible, with

blindingly clear reporting relationships and

responsibilities.

After being on the road for several years, I realize that some people

may read these practices and wonder how, if they adopt them,

they’ll ever get any real work done.

— 98 —

PEOPLE MANAGEMENT

I always thought they were real work! But many Q & A sessions

have left me with the impression that at lots of companies, people

management is what’s done when there’s time left over.

In the hope that that might change, here are the practices in

more detail.

PRACTICE 1: Elevate HR to a position of power

and primacy in the organization, and make sure HR

people have the special qualities to help managers

build leaders and careers. In fact, the best HR types are

pastors and parents in the same package.

About three years ago I was in Mexico City, speaking at a conven-

tion of five thousand human resource executives. As usual, the

event was set up as a Q & A session with two seats on the stage. In

this case, the interviewer was Daniel Servitje, the thoughtful and

engaging CEO of Grupo Bimbo, one of the country’s largest food

companies.

Daniel and I spent the first forty-five minutes talking about

strategy, budgets, global competition, and other business topics

before the microphone went into the audience for their questions.

The first person to speak identified herself as the head of person-

nel for a Brazilian manufacturer. With an urgent voice, she asked

me about the role of HR in a company—what did I think it

should be?

My answer was immediate, and to be honest with you, even

though I have been making this point publicly for years, I thought

it would get a round of applause, given the makeup of the audi-

ence.

“Without doubt, the head of HR should be the second most

important person in any organization,” I said. “From the point of

— 99 —

YOUR COMPANY

view of the CEO, the director of HR should be at least equal to

the CFO.”

There was a strange hush in the place. In fact, it was so quiet I

thought my Boston accent had thrown off the translator.

“Isn’t that what happens in your companies?” I asked. “I mean,

let’s get a show of hands. How many of you work at companies

where the CEO treats the director of HR and the CFO with

equal respect?”

Fifty hands went up—fifty out of five thousand people! No

wonder no one had clapped! I had accidentally stepped on the

toes of about 99 percent of the crowd.

Later, at a reception after the session, one person after another

from the audience told me how HR was belittled and under-

utilized in their organizations. In all, about thirty people told me

stories in the same vein.

Worse, their reports turned out not to be an exception. I have

asked my stature-of-HR question at about seventy-five other

speaking events since Mexico City. The results are always dis-

turbingly similar.

It blows my mind. Even if your company is too small to have its

own HR department, somebody has to be doing HR.

And HR has just got to be as important as any other function

in a company.

In fact, why wouldn’t HR be as

important as finance? After all, if

If you managed a baseball

you managed a baseball team, would

team, would you listen you listen more closely to the team

accountant or the director of player

more closely to the team

personnel? The input of the team

accountant or the director

accountant matters—he sure knows

of player personnel?

how much they can pay a player.

But his input certainly doesn’t

— 100 —

PEOPLE MANAGEMENT

count more than input from the director of player personnel, who

knows just how good each player is. Both belong, alongside the

CEO, at the table where decisions are made.

Unfortunately, at a lot of companies, HR isn’t even in the same

room.

The reasons, I think, are threefold. First, the impact of HR is

hard to quantify. You can see how sales and R & D affect perfor-

mance, and how finance tallies it up. But HR deals with “air”—

people skills. Not only are people skills squishy-soft, most people

assume they have them in spades. How many times have you heard

someone say, “I’m a people person!”

Second, HR too often gets relegated or pushed into a benefits

trap—administering insurance plans and overseeing scheduling

issues like vacation and flextime. It also gets saddled with health

and happiness activities—putting out the plant newspaper and

organizing the summer picnic. Someone has to take care of these

tasks, but if HR gets stuck doing them all the time, its stature will

never be what it should.

Third, HR becomes twisted up in palace intrigue.

Back in the 1960s and early ’70s, GE went through a period