SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Merger and Acquisition Integration
SUMMARY: Integrating acquired companies too slowly can create paralysis, and the objective should be full integration within 90 days.
KEYWORDS: merger integration, organizational change, acquisition pitfalls, leadership in M&A, integration timeline
---

run the business the way they always did—that’s how they know

how to make the numbers. At every opportunity, they will block

— 229 —

YOUR COMPETITION

personnel changes, accounting systems consolidation, and com-

pensation plans—you name it.

But an integration will never fully happen if there’s someone

blocking every change, especially if that person used to be the

boss.

What can you do? Well, if you absolutely want to keep the

former CEO or founder around for reasons of performance or

continuity, cut your losses and forget an earn-out package. Offer a

flat-rate retention deal instead—a certain sum for staying a certain

period of time. That gives you the free hand you need and want to

create a new company.

Earn-outs are just one aspect of the reverse hostage pitfall. Yes,

sometimes you have to make concessions to get a company you

really want.

Just don’t make so many that, when the deal is sealed, your new

acquisition can hold you up—with your own gun.

The fourth pitfall is integrating too timidly.With good

leadership, a merger should be complete within ninety

days.

Return for a second to those partylike press conferences that ac-

company most merger announcements. Even in pure buyout situ-

ations, the CEOs promise a new partnership ahead. The two

companies will cooperate, reach consensus, and then smoothly in-

tegrate.

Unfortunately, if partnership building isn’t done right it can

create paralysis. The two sides talk and talk and talk about culture,

— 230 —

MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

strategy, operations, titles, letter-

heads, and the rest—while the inte- It is uncertainty that

gration waits.

causes organizations

For a change, deal heat is not the

to descend into fear

culprit behind this pitfall. Instead, it

is something more admirable—a and inertia. The objective

kind of politeness and consideration should be full integration

for the other side’s feelings. No one

within ninety days

wants to be an obnoxious winner,

of the deal’s close.

pushing through changes without

any appearance of discussion or

debate. In fact, many acquirers want

to preserve whatever positive vibes existed at the end of negotia-

tions, and they think moving slowly and carefully will help.

I’m not saying that acquirers shouldn’t engage in debate about

how the two companies will combine their ways of doing busi-

ness—they absolutely should. In fact, the best acquirers are great

listeners.They ask a lot of questions and take in all the information

and opinions swirling around, and usually there are plenty.

But then they have to act. They have to make decisions about

organizational structure, people, culture, and direction, and com-

municate those decisions relentlessly.

It is uncertainty that causes organizations to descend into fear

and inertia. The only antidote is a clear, forward-moving integra-

tion process, transparent to everyone. It can be led by the CEO or

an official integration manager—a top-level, widely respected

executive of the acquirer—vested with the power of the CEO.

The process should have a rigorous timetable with goals and peo-

ple held accountable for them.

The objective made clear to everyone should be full integra-

tion within ninety days of the deal’s close.

— 231 —

YOUR COMPETITION

Every day after that is a waste.

A classic case of moving too cautiously—and paying the price

for it—is New Holland’s acquisition of Case Corporation in No-

vember 1999.

New Holland, a Dutch company with headquarters in London

and a division of the giant Italian manufacturer Fiat, was the No. 3

player in the agriculture and construction equipment industry.

Strategically, its managers were right in thinking that buying the

Wisconsin-based Case, a solid No. 2, would allow it to finally take

on the longtime industry leader, John Deere. Six billion dollars

later, the deal was done.

Given the overlap in products and markets, you would think

that the integration of these two companies would proceed

swiftly, especially with those cost reductions so obvious. But New

Holland was a company with a European parent, and its leaders

were cautious about taking over an American enterprise on its

own turf. Moreover, Fiat had paid a large premium for Case. That

redoubled New Holland’s trepidation. My old friend Paolo

Fresco, the former vice-chairman of GE and at the time of the

deal the chairman of Fiat, remembers the impact of the premium

this way: “We didn’t want to rock the boat or sink it with too

many changes—we’d paid too much for the company to let that

happen.”

Fiat made the CEO of Case the head of the new company. In

addition, most of the positions in the new organization were filled

with Case managers, including COO and CFO.

Needless to say, the integration was rocky. The integra-

tion team did make one big decision—to keep two brands and

two distribution systems. But most everything else was left up in

the air.

When the market for farm equipment tanked in 2000,and with

the integration stalled, the merged company tanked with it. In cri-

— 232 —

MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

sis mode, Fiat sent a new CEO, Paolo Monferino, to the United

States,and he launched the integration the way it should have been

on day one—quickly and decisively.The then-CEO of Case, Jean-

Pierre Rosso,was made chairman.Ironically,Fiat had been afraid of

making that change, but once it did, its managers quickly saw that

Jean-Pierre was a perfect fit for the job and that he was happy to fill

its role. He was strong with customers and an excellent industry

statesman. All that timidity had been unnecessary!

When Congress passed the Farm Bill in 2002, the fully inte-

grated CNH Global N.V., as the company was renamed, was posi-

tioned to take advantage of the market upsurge. But as Paolo

Fresco notes, “We lost at least a year and maybe more because of

our cultural uncertainty.”

The Case New Holland story is not unique.

Back in 2000, GE tried to buy Honeywell—a deal, as some

might recall, that never received European Union approval. But in