SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: People Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of training and managing people well, including confronting charged relationships like unions.
KEYWORDS: employee training, people management, union relations
---

gineer will want to travel to Japan to visit companies using ad-

vanced techniques that he has only read about. A good PR

person will want to learn how to communicate more effectively

on the Web.

Good people never think they have reached the top of their

game. But they’re dying to get there!

A company that manages people well helps make that happen.

If it can afford it, it has in-house training led by its own executives,

who serve not only as teachers but as role models. A company

with fewer resources can facilitate training outside at any number

of good programs. In either case, it makes sure that training is seen

as a reward for performance, not a

sop for time served.

Good people never think Companies cannot promise their

people lifetime employment. Global

they’ve reached the top of

competition is too fierce and eco-

their game. But they’re

nomic cycles too frequent for any

dying to get there! such guarantees.

But they can promise to give

— 108 —

PEOPLE MANAGEMENT

their people every chance for employability—skills that will make

them more attractive if they are forced to part ways.

Like rewards and recognition, training does that. It motivates

people by showing them a way to grow, that the company cares,

and that they have a future.

If you are doing it right, they will want to make that future

with you.

PRACTICE 4: Face straight into charged relation-

ships—with unions, stars, sliders, and disrupters.

Like families, companies have relationships filled with history or

fraught with tension.

But managing people well means paying special attention to

these hard relationships, not just letting them fester or float into

neglect—approaches that are entirely human but often end in a

mess.

Good people management requires companies to confront

their charged relationships with candor and action.

Let’s start with unions. When I was at GE, it was well

known that I was not a fan of unions. I thought they created con-

ditions that made the company less competitive, and they drove an

unnecessary wedge between management and employees.

I use the word “unnecessary” because in my experience,

unions arise only when a plant or an office is being managed by

someone who is abusive, remote, or indifferent, and whose actions

have taken away the voice and dignity of employees. Without a

doubt, that boss needs to be reformed or removed because union-

ization is an excessive response with negative long-term conse-

quences—really for everyone.

— 109 —

YOUR COMPANY

We did have several longtime unions at GE during my time as

CEO. I always felt our relationship was candid and respectful, and

we never had a national strike. I can think of two reasons why.

First, we always stated our principles and stuck to them, and

second, we never started our relationship at the negotiating table.

Principles first.

The most important thing to remember about unions is that

they are made up of your own people. You work together, reside

in the same towns, and oftentimes your kids go to school or play

together. Your lives and futures are intertwined.

That is why all you have with unions is your integrity—your

word. You can fight about issues, and you will. But your fighting

will be more productive if you are always clear about what issues

are negotiable and which are untouchable. During negotiations,

waffle only on those matters you identified as negotiable and

nothing else. Otherwise, your word will be meaningless and your

relationship will be without trust.

Now to the negotiating table. Make every effort not to have

your first date there. A war zone is no place to get acquainted.

Almost every time I traveled to the businesses with Bill Conaty,

we met with local union representatives. These sessions were

mainly to get to know one another better and lay out positions

without any immediate agenda. Everyone would get a chance to

talk, and even better, in these settings, we were all more inclined to

listen. Bill and I always learned a lot, and it served Bill and the

company well in every national negotiation.

Let’s look at another charged relationship to manage:

with stars. One thing is certain. You need stars to win, and I have

always advocated identifying your stars—that top 20 percent—and

stroking and rewarding them in an outsize way.

But stroking can backfire. A star’s ego can be a dangerous thing.

I’ve seen talented young people promoted too quickly and

— 110 —

PEOPLE MANAGEMENT

their ambition spin out of control. I’ve seen terrific financial

analysts, engineers, and network executives get told one too many

times that they are irreplaceable, and they start swaggering around

to the point that their teams resent them. I’ve seen smart, capable

individuals come to believe they are so indispensable that they

should not be bound by anything, including the company’s values.

Stars can become monsters if you let them.

That’s why someone has to be on the lookout, namely the star’s

boss, with support from HR, if you have it. This job cannot fall

through the cracks. The minute a star seems to be getting arrogant

or out of control, someone has to call the person in to have a

candid conversation about values and behaviors. You can never be

afraid of your stars; they can’t hold a company hostage.

Now, sometimes stars surprise you and up and leave. That can

be a defining moment. Ideally, the star will be replaced within

eight hours. That’s right, eight hours. This immediate reaction

sends the message to the organization that no one is indispensable.

It shouts out that no single individual is bigger than the company.

One morning in the summer of 2001, just as Jeff Immelt was

about to take over as CEO, Larry Johnston, who was CEO of our

appliances business, came to headquarters to tell us he was taking

the job as CEO of Albertsons, the

large West Coast food and drug