SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Hiring Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of hiring high-potential candidates who can grow with the business, rather than just filling immediate needs with 'blockers' who lack long-term potential.
KEYWORDS: hiring, high-potential, blockers, employee growth, employee turnover
---

were gone and we were filling the positions again.

With my first shot at hiring managers, I didn’t know any better.

I just wanted to get the job done. But I eventually learned that it

pays to go for the high-potentials who can grow with the business

or are capable of moving up elsewhere in the organization. Hiring

a highly skilled “blocker”—someone who will hit the ground

running but has no future beyond the open position—is tempting

because it solves an immediate need.

But blockers soon become enervating.

A good rule of thumb is

They get bored by the familiarity of the

not to hire someone work or, as in my early case, swamped

into the last job of his by its challenges. Their people get dis-

couraged because they see their bosses

or her career, unless it’s

going nowhere, which makes them

to be head of a function

wonder about their own opportunities.

or CEO. A good rule of thumb, then, is not to

hire someone into the last job of his or

— 94 —

HIRING

her career, unless it’s to be head of a

function or CEO. Don’t beat yourself up

6. How long does it take to

if you get hiring wrong

know if you’ve hired right? Usu-

some of the time. Just

ally within a year—and certainly

within two—it is pretty clear if remember, the mistake

someone is getting the results you’d is yours to fix.

hoped for.

It’s relatively easy to notice when

a person lacks the energy and execution you anticipated. But the

ability to energize and the capacity for edge sometimes take

longer to show up in a new environment. People want to fit in be-

fore they start rousing the team to a cause or making the tough

calls. But as I said, within two years at the most, if an employee is

still falling short of your expectations, it is time to admit your mis-

take and start the process of moving the person out. If you have

been doing your job and giving honest evaluations along the way,

the employee shouldn’t be surprised, and an equitable severance

package will likewise soften the blow.

Hiring right is hard. I’d say as a young manager, I picked the

right people about 50 percent of the time. Thirty years later, I had

improved to about 80 percent.

My point is: don’t beat yourself up if you get hiring wrong

some of the time, especially when you’re starting out.

Situations change. People change. You change.

But just remember, every hiring mistake is yours. You have to

fix it, not an HR person you call in to do your dirty work. Take

responsibility and make sure the ending is candid and fair.

And now for our San Diego question.

What is the one thing you should ask in an interview to

help you decide whom to hire? If I had just one area to probe

— 95 —

YOUR COMPANY

in an interview, it would be about why the candidate left his pre-

vious job, and the one before that.

Was it the environment? Was it the boss? Was it the team?

What exactly made you leave? There is so much information in

those answers. Keep digging and dig deep. Maybe the candidate

just expects too much from a job or a company—he wants a boss

who is entirely hands-off or teammates who always agree. Maybe

he wants too much reward too fast. Or maybe she’s leaving her last

job because she has just what you want: too much energy to be

held back, so much ability to energize she wants to manage more

people, too much edge for a namby-pamby employer, and such a

strong ability to execute she needs more challenge.

The key is: Listen closely. Get in the candidate’s skin. Why a

person has left a job or jobs tells you more about them than almost

any other piece of data.

■

Your goal in hiring is to get the right players on the field.

Luckily, great people are everywhere. You just have to know

how to pick them.

It’s so easy to just hire people you like. After all, you’ll be

spending the majority of your waking hours with them. It’s also

easy to hire people with relevant experience. They’ll get the job

done.

But friendship and experience are never enough. Every person

you hire has to have integrity, intelligence, and maturity. Once

you’ve got those, look hard for people with the four Es and pas-

sion. Beyond that, at the senior level, look for authenticity, fore-

sight, the willingness to draw on others for advice, and resilience.

Put it all together, and those are the people who win.

— 96 —

7

People Management

YOU’VE GOT THE RIGHT PLAYERS.

NOW WHAT?

YOU’VE GOT THE RIGHT PLAY ERS on the field—

that’s a great start. Now they need to work together, steadily

improve their performance, be motivated, stay with the company,

and grow as leaders.

In other words, they need to be managed.

There are libraries of books on people management, not to

mention plenty of courses in business schools. There are training

programs, magazines, and Web sites, many offering sound advice.

And then there is experience.

That’s mainly what this chapter draws on. During my years at

GE, once I was out of the laboratory at Plastics, managing people

was really what I did. After all, I didn’t have the expertise to design

jet engines, build CT scanners, or create a comedy program for

NBC. Obviously, as CEO, I got involved in everything: strategy,

new products, sales, M & A, and the like. But in that job, I always

believed the people part was how I could help GE the most.

— 97 —

YOUR COMPANY

People management covers a wide range of activities, but it

really comes down to six fundamental practices.

No person can undertake these activities alone—far from it—