SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Customer Relationships and Operations
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of maintaining strong customer relationships while also focusing on efficient and cost-effective operations.
KEYWORDS: customer relationships, operational efficiency, business values, mission and values, cost-cutting
---

short-term profits at the expense of building those

enduring relationships.

■ Always look for ways to make it easier to do

business with us.

■ Communicate daily with your customers. If they

are talking to you, they can’t be talking to a

competitor.

■ Don’t forget to say thank you.

— 19 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

Another value Bank One had was: “We strive to be the low-

cost provider through efficient and great operations.” Some of the

prescribed behaviors included:

■ Leaner is better.

■ Eliminate bureaucracy.

■ Cut waste relentlessly.

■ Operations should be fast and simple.

■ Value each other’s time.

■ Invest in infrastructure.

■ We should know our business best.We don’t

need consultants to tell us what to do.

If this level of detail feels overwhelming and even doctrinaire

to you, I can sympathize. When I first saw Jamie’s single-spaced,

five-page values-and-behaviors document, I nearly fell over. But

as I read it, I saw its power.

With all the stories I have heard in the past few years from em-

ployees in companies around the world, I’m convinced you can-

not be too specific about values and their related behaviors.

AND IT’S IN THE BACKUP

Clarity around values and behaviors is not much good unless it is

backed up. To make values really mean something, companies

have to reward the people who exhibit them and “punish” those

who don’t. Believe me, it will make winning easier.

— 20 —

MISSION AND VALUES

I say that because every time we asked one of our high-

performing managers to leave because he didn’t demonstrate the

values—and we said as much publicly—the organization re-

sponded incredibly well. In annual surveys over a decade, employ-

ees would tell us that we were a company that increasingly lived its

values. That made people even more committed to living them

too. And as our employee satisfaction results improved, so did our

financial results.

AND FINALLY, IT’S IN THE CONNECTION

A concrete mission is great. And values that describe specific be-

haviors are too. But for a company’s mission and values to truly

work together as a winning proposition, they have to be mutually

reinforcing.

It seems obvious, doesn’t it, that a company’s values should sup-

port its mission, but it’s amazingly easy for that not to be the case.

A disconnect between the parts of a company’s framework proba-

bly is more a sin of omission than of commission, but it often

happens.

In the most common scenario, a company’s mission and its

values rupture due to the little crises

of daily life in business: A competi-

tor moves into town and lowers

In the most common

prices, and so do you, undermining

scenario, a company’s

your mission of competing on ex-

treme customer service. Or a down- mission and its values

turn hits, so you cut your advertising

rupture due to the

budget, forgetting your mission is to

little crises of daily life

enhance and extend your brand.

in business.

These examples of disconnec-

tions may sound minor or tempo-

— 21 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

rary, but when left unattended, they can really hurt a company. In

fact, in the worst-case scenario, they can literally destroy a busi-

ness.

That’s how I see what happened at Arthur Andersen and

Enron.

Arthur Andersen was founded almost a century ago with the

mission to become the most respected and trusted auditing firm in

the world. It was a company that prided itself on having the

courage to say no, even if that meant losing a client. It succeeded

by hiring the most capable, highest-integrity CPAs and rewarding

them for doing work that rightfully earned the confidence of cor-

porations and regulators around the world.

Then the boom times of the 1980s arrived, and Arthur Ander-

sen decided it wanted to start a consulting business; that’s where

the excitement was, not to mention the big money. The company

started hiring more MBAs and paying them the constantly escalat-

ing salaries that the consulting industry demanded. In 1989, the

firm actually split into two divisions, a traditional accounting divi-

sion, called Arthur Andersen, and Andersen Consulting. Both fell

under one corporate umbrella, called Andersen Worldwide.

Rather than valuing conscientiousness, consulting firms gen-

erally encourage creativity and reward aggressive sales behavior,

taking the customer from one project to the next. In the 1990s in

particular, there was a real cowboy mentality in the consulting in-

dustry, and the accounting side of Andersen felt the impact. Some

of its accountants clearly got swept up in the momentum, letting

go of the auditing business values that had guided them for so

long.

Throughout most of the ’90s, Arthur Andersen was a firm at

war with itself. The consulting business was subsidizing the audit-

ing side and didn’t like it, and you can be sure the auditing side

wasn’t crazy about the bravado of the consulting types. In these

— 22 —

MISSION AND VALUES

circumstances, how could people know the answer to questions

like, “What really is our mission?” “What values matter most?”

and “How should we behave?” Depending on which side of the

firm you pledged allegiance to, your answer would be different,

and that’s ultimately why the partners ended up in court with each

other, trying to figure out how to divide the firm’s profits.

Eventually, in 2002, the house collapsed, due in no small part to

the disconnect between its mission and values.

In many ways, the same kind of dynamic was behind the Enron

collapse.

In its prior life, Enron was a simple, rather mundane pipeline

and energy company. Everyone was focused on getting gas from

point A to point B cheaply and quickly, a mission they accom-

plished very well by having expertise in energy sourcing and dis-

tribution.

Then, like Arthur Andersen, the company changed missions.

Someone got the idea to turn Enron into a trading company.

Again, the goal was faster growth.