SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Performance Management
SUMMARY: The passage discusses how GE's budgeting process transformed to focus on stretch goals and external benchmarks rather than rigid internal targets.
KEYWORDS: budgeting, performance management, corporate culture, compensation, benchmarking
---

largely the company that I inherited when I became CEO. Over

the years, I was at the receiving end of plenty of Phony Smile

meetings, and participated in dozens if not hundreds of Negoti-

ated Settlement meetings on both sides of the table.

— 198 —

BUDGETING

But as GE’s culture became more

infused with candor, transforming its At this point, you might

budgeting process became more re-

be thinking, “Yeah, yeah,

alistic. Eventually, we were able to

this approach sounds

move our businesses away from

budgets with rock-hard targets and great, but what about

toward operating plans filled with my bonus?”

stretch goals.

That transformation took time—

several years, at least. Along the way, I

promoted the change as often as I could.

In 1995, for instance, Appliances was having a brutal go of it.

Competitors were churning out high-quality products at very low

prices, and our team was struggling like crazy to catch up. They

were innovating with several new product introductions of their

own and improving manufacturing processes, getting more

productive by the day. Still, at the end of the year, their earnings

were 10 percent below internal expectations and about flat with

the previous year.

At the same time, Plastics was having a great year. Their market

took off, and shortages of material quickly developed, making it a

seller’s market when it came to pricing. Their earnings jumped 25

percent, about ten points higher than the operating plan called for.

Back in the old budgeting days, Plastics would have gotten the

big bonuses and Appliances would have gotten a lump of coal. But

with the new approach, both businesses got increased payouts that

were about equal in amount.

At our annual management meeting that year with five hun-

dred of the company’s top people, I went out of my way to make

this story widely known. In fact, I made a point of telling it in my

keynote speech to the group.

Yes, I said, Appliances’ earnings were below plan and showed

— 199 —

YOUR COMPETITION

no rise over the previous year. But the business’s performance—

in a brutal environment—was really impressive compared to its

closest competitors, Whirlpool and Maytag, who had done worse

than we had.

As for Plastics, yes, their earnings had beaten the plan, but it had

been a layup. We cared more that one of their competitors had

earnings growth of 30 percent and another had a 35 percent rise.

We could have done better and we didn’t. In fact, we hadn’t been

aggressive enough on price—a mistake, pure and simple.

You might expect that people in Plastics resented the bonuses

paid out to Appliances, or that they wanted and expected more

from headquarters for their results.But by that time,the reinvented

approach to budgeting had permeated the organization. People

understood how it worked, and how it made all of us better by

looking outside the company to judge our performance. After all,

what good is beating targets you set in a windowless room? The

real world has its own numbers, and they’re all that matters.

GETTING IT GOING

As I said, it took years for this approach to financial planning to

take hold at GE, but I know a case where it was up and running

within two—and in China to boot, where modern management

techniques in general are just taking hold.

It happened at 3M, the industrial conglomerate, which has

been doing business in China for some twenty years.

To an outside observer, 3M’s track record in China has always

been solid. In fact, when Jim McNerney became CEO in January

2001, the company’s Chinese businesses were posting 15 percent

annual growth, about three times the company’s average. For years

at budget time, the Chinese team had been congratulated for this

level of performance and sent on its way.

— 200 —

BUDGETING

But after his years of experience

with the impact of stretch goals and What good is beating

operating plans at GE—where his

targets you set in a

last job was CEO of Aircraft

windowless room?

Engines—Jim decided to transform

budgeting at 3M, including its for-

eign operations.

His first step, however, was not to install the stretch

approach. “You can’t go to stretch directly,” he told me

recently. “You have to get a culture of accountability first.” In

other words, people have to mean what they say, deliver their

operational and strategic commitments, and take responsibility

if that doesn’t happen.

In the past, 3M had something of the Negotiated Settlement

approach to budgeting, but with an added twist of benign neglect.

The company called budgets “improvement plans,” which, as Jim

notes, “had little commitment attached to them.” Headquarters

and each business unit would come up with agreed-upon num-

bers during the budgeting ritual, and then amicably part ways

until the same event the next year. In the meantime, goals would

routinely be missed, and people at headquarters might have gotten

angry, but nothing happened.

Over the past four years, as Jim and his team have changed the

3M culture, the “improvement plan”approach to budgeting has all

but ended. There is new candor and trust—and accountability—

throughout the organization. Enough, in fact, that Jim felt it was

possible to introduce the stretch approach.

One of its earliest believers was Kenneth Yu, managing direc-

tor of 3M China and a 3M employee for more than thirty years,

first in Hong Kong, then in Taiwan, and now in Shanghai. In his

early fifties and a veteran of good results under the old budgeting

system, Kenneth was an unlikely candidate to embrace such a

— 201 —

YOUR COMPETITION

major change. But he had, as Jim describes it, “a total reawaken-

ing” as to how business could be done.

“Once Kenneth realized that the stretch approach had a safety

net, he really bought into the idea that stretching, even without

getting there, could be a whole lot better than the old game,” Jim

recalls.