SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Dealing with Bad Bosses
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of working under a bad boss and provides guidance on how to approach such situations effectively.
KEYWORDS: bad bosses, career management, workplace challenges, leadership, employee-boss relationship
---

THAT DAMN BOSS

I’VE NEVER KNOW N A PERSON who didn’t light up

at the memory of a truly great boss. And for good reason: great

bosses can be friends, teachers, coaches, allies, and sources of inspi-

ration all in one. They can shape and advance your career in ways

you never expected—and sometimes they can even change your

life.

In stark contrast, a bad boss can just about kill you.

Not literally of course, but a bad boss can kill that part of your

soul where positive energy, commitment, and hope come from.

On a daily basis, a bad boss can leave you feeling angry, hurt, and

bitter—even physically ill.

If you’re like most people, over the course of a forty-

something-year career, you will have a handful of great bosses,

many more that are pretty good, and one or two total jerks—

people who are so consistently awful they make you want to

throw it in and quit.

Bad bosses come in every variety. Some grab all the credit,

— 299 —

YOUR CAREER

some are incompetent, some kiss

The world has jerks. up but kick down; others bully and

humiliate, have mood swings, with-

Some of them get to

hold praise and money, break prom-

be bosses.

ises, or play favorites.

Occasionally, there are bad bosses

who display several of these characteristics all at once.

How do these people ever get ahead?

Well, sometimes they happen to be very talented. They

deliver the numbers or they’re extremely creative. They can have

shrewd political alliances or maybe even a family member in high

places.

Bad bosses, incidentally, tend to have longer lives in some

industries rather than others. On the creative side, very talented

writers, artists, and producers who get promoted to run projects

are often given a pass on bad behavior because they are “geniuses.”

Wall Street is also often a safe harbor for bad bosses. Top money-

makers are often thought of as irreplaceable, and they know it,

making some of them even more insufferable.

But never mind industry specifics. The world has jerks. Some

of them get to be bosses.

This chapter is about what to do when one of them gets to be

your boss.

Now, this chapter won’t provide any hard-and-fast answers be-

cause each bad boss situation is unique. But it will walk you

through a series of questions that hopefully will surface the right

approach to your bad boss situation, “right” in the sense that it fits

your goals in life and at work.

Before we look at those questions, though, let me state the

overriding principle behind this chapter.

In any bad boss situation, you cannot let yourself be a victim.

That theme has come up before in this book—most recently in

— 300 —

HARD SPOTS

the chapter on mergers and acquisitions—and, for many of the

same reasons, it applies here too.

I realize that a bad boss (like a merger) may make you want to

bitch and moan to your coworkers, whine to your family, punch a

wall, or watch too much TV with a drink in your hand. He may

make you want to surf the Web or call headhunters, looking for

jobs anywhere but where you are.

All in all, he may end up making you want to feel very sorry for

yourself.

Don’t!

In any business situation, seeing yourself as a victim is com-

pletely self-defeating. And when it comes to your career, it’s an

attitude that kills all your options—it can even be the start of a

career death spiral. I have a friend, a financial analyst at a Wall

Street firm, who bounced from one crummy job to another after

he had a falling out with his bad boss and quit in a huff. Out in the

market, with no recommendations, all he had was an “I was

screwed” story of woe to tell prospective employers. Ultimately,

five years later, he ended up with the same job he had started from,

only at a less-respected firm and at about 60 percent of the pay.

Obviously, you shouldn’t always stay with a bad boss. Some-

times you need to get out. Regardless of your decision, avoid the

pervasive victim mentality. You know what I mean. We live in a

culture where parents sue fast-food restaurants for making their

kids fat and cities spend millions of dollars a year to settle claims

for injuries caused by uneven side-

walks and potholes.

Please!

In any bad boss situation,

Like every other unfortunate or

you cannot let yourself be

unfair event that befalls you in life,

a victim.

working for a difficult boss is your

problem and you must solve it.

— 301 —

YOUR CAREER

To do that, ask yourself the following series of questions. The

answers will help you navigate what is undeniably a painful situa-

tion. Painful—but yours to accept, fix, or end.

The first question is:

Why is my boss acting like a jerk? Sometimes the answer

to this question is a no-brainer. Your boss is acting like a jerk be-

cause that’s the way he is. He may be fine with customers and

fairly reasonable with his own bosses and peers, but he treats

everyone below him with the same kind of bad behavior—be it in

the form of intimidation, belligerence, arrogance, neglect, secrecy,

or sarcasm.

It is an entirely different situation if your boss is just impossible

toward you.

In that case, you need to start asking yourself what you have

done to draw his disapproval. That’s right—you need to ask your-

self if you are the cause of your boss’s behavior. Generally speak-

ing, bosses are not awful to people whom they like, respect, and

need. If your boss is being negative to you—and mainly you—you

can feel pretty confident that he has his version of events, and his

version concerns your attitude or performance.

You’ve got to find out what’s going on.

Start by asking yourself that