SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Organizational Performance Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of implementing a differentiation-based performance management system, including cultural obstacles and the motivational impact on the middle 70% of employees.
KEYWORDS: performance management, differentiation, cultural obstacles, employee motivation, organizational performance
---

owned enterprises—still more than 50 percent of the economy

despite market reforms—many of the best jobs and rewards go to

the most loyal members of the party whether they are the most

talented or not.

Basically, I think the excuses we hear about differentiation’s

cultural obstacles are just that—excuses. At GE, we couldn’t

have a company where differentiation existed only in our U.S.

operations. First of all, we just be-

lieved too much in differentiation’s

Once we made the case

effectiveness. But we also knew

for differentiation and

that having differentiation only in

we linked it to a candid the United States would have been

unfair and confusing, especially for

performance appraisal

the businesses with both U.S. and

system, it worked as

global divisions, and for the people

well in Japan as it

who moved around the world for

did in Ohio. us. We decided early on that we

would push through differentia-

— 48 —

DIFFERENTIATION

tion everywhere we did business, dealing with whatever cul-

tural issues that confronted us.

Then an amazing thing happened. Very many cultural issues

didn’t confront us. Once we made the case for differentiation and

we linked it to a candid performance appraisal system, it worked as

well in Japan as it did in Ohio. In fact, people who at first thought

it could never work in their country came to support it strongly

for its honesty, fairness, and clarity.

As I mentioned, very often when I get the comment “We can’t

have differentiation in my country,” it comes from managers who

admit they themselves support the approach. Their resistance

grows out of the assumption that their people will object based on

cultural values. My advice to them is to move slowly but go for it

anyway. They will be surprised that they are not alone because dif-

ferentiation, once in practice for a while, makes its own case in any

language.

Differentiation is fine for the top 20 percent and the bottom

10 because they know where they are going. But it is

enormously demotivating to the middle 70 percent, who end

up living in an awful kind of limbo.

Again, an element of truth in this complaint. The middle 70 per-

cent is the hardest category to manage in differentiation. The

biggest problem comes with the individuals in the top tier of the

70 percent because they know they are not a whole lot different

from the top-20 performers, and often a whole lot better than the

bottom tier of their own “guard.”And yes, that can be enervating,

and sometimes talented middle-70 people leave because of it.

The silver lining to this difficult situation is that the existence

of a middle 70 forces companies to manage themselves better. It

— 49 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

forces leaders to scrutinize people

While being in the more closely than they would ordi-

narily and to provide more consis-

middle 70 percent can be

tent, candid feedback. It pushes

demotivating to some

companies to build training centers

people, it actually revs the that really make a difference. For

engines of many others. instance, before differentiation, our

Crotonville, New York, training

center was often used in the 1970s

as a warehouse where businesses

could afford to send their underperformers. It was like a way sta-

tion on the road to early retirement.

The rigor of 20-70-10 helped us change that. We turned Cro-

tonville into a place where the top 20 and the best of the middle

70 talked about ideas, debated our approach to business, and got to

know and understand one another a lot better. And since senior

management spent several hours with each class, it also gave us a

rough idea as to just how rigorously differentiation was being

practiced in the field.

Another piece of silver lining is that while being in the middle

70 percent can be demotivating to some people, it actually revs the

engines of many others. For the people in the top 20, for instance,

the very existence of a middle 70 gives them yet another reason to

pull out all the stops every day. They have to keep getting better to

keep their high standing—what a rush that can be! After all, most

people want to improve and grow every day.

For a lot of people in the middle 70, getting better is energiz-

ing too. Getting into the top 20 gives them a tangible goal, and

having that goal makes them work harder, think more creatively,

share more ideas, and, overall, fight the good fight every day. It

makes work more of a challenge and a lot more fun.

— 50 —

DIFFERENTIATION

Differentiation favors people who are energetic and

extroverted and undervalues people who are shy and

introverted, even if they are talented.

I don’t know if it’s good or bad, but the world generally favors

people who are energetic and extroverted. That’s also something

you learn young, and it’s reinforced in school, at church, at camp,

in clubs, and usually at home too. By the time you get to work, if

you are still shy and introverted and somewhat low in energy, there

are professions and jobs where those characteristics are advanta-

geous. If you know yourself, you will find them. This criticism of

differentiation, which I hear now and then, is not really about dif-

ferentiation, but about society’s values.

I might add that in business, energetic and extroverted people

generally do better, but results speak for themselves, loud and clear.

Differentiation hears them.

■

If you want the best people on your team, you need to face up

to differentiation. I don’t know of any people management system

that does it better—with more transparency, fairness, and speed. It

isn’t perfect. But differentiation, like candor, clarifies business and

makes it run better in every way.

— 51 —

4

Voice and Dignity

EVERY BRAIN IN THE GAME

RUDY G IULIANI HAS A S AY ING: “Know what you