SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Career Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of managing relationships with subordinates to get ahead in one's career.
KEYWORDS: managing subordinates, boss-subordinate relationship, career advancement, visibility, mentorship
---

initiatives.

■ Search out and relish the input of lots of

mentors, realizing that mentors don’t always look

like mentors.

■ Have a positive attitude and spread it around.

The don’t is:

■ Don’t let setbacks break your stride.

Let’s look at the dos first.

Managing down. Every business advice book tells you to

network with people within your company and industry.They tell

— 288 —

GETTING PROMOTED

you how important it is to build a

mutually respectful bond with your The boss-subordinate

boss. That’s all good advice, and you

relationship is easy to

should take it.

neglect. Your boss is in

But to get ahead, you also need

to tend to your subordinates with your face, and your peers

the same level of attention and con- are on your mind, while

cern.

your subordinates do

The boss-subordinate relation-

what you say.

ship is easy to neglect. Your boss is in

your face, and your peers are on

your mind, while your subordinates

generally do what you say.

But be careful, because the boss-subordinate relationship can

easily fall into two career-damaging traps. The first, and by far

more common, occurs when you spend too much time managing

up. As a result, you become too remote from your subordinates,

and you end up losing their support and affection. The second oc-

curs when you get too close to your employees, overstepping

boundaries, and end up acting more like a buddy than a boss.

Either way can catch up with you.

Your goal in managing your relationships with subordinates is

to try to walk the line between the two extremes. When the time

comes for your promotion, the best thing employees can say about

you is that you were fair, you cared, and that you showed them

tough love.

I learned this lesson firsthand. In the final showdown for CEO

of GE, I was strongly opposed by two powerful vice-chairmen,

who supported their own candidates.

Unbeknownst to me, I was really helped by my direct reports. I

found out later that they had advocated relentlessly for my promo-

— 289 —

YOUR CAREER

tion with Chairman Reg Jones, telling him I was tough but fair,

and that I would push GE harder and faster than any of the other

CEO finalists. I’m not sure all of them liked me—I was rough

around the edges and pretty short on patience. But I guess they re-

spected me for respecting them and building relationships with

them not just when I needed them, but years before.

Getting on the radar screen. As I’ve said, the first and best

way to get noticed is with results.

But you can also raise your visibility by putting up your hand

when the call comes for people to lead major projects and initia-

tives, in particular ones that don’t have a whole lot of popularity at

the outset. At GE, two of those were globalization, which we

launched in earnest in the 1980s, and Six Sigma, which was

launched in 1995.

Wayne Hewett is a perfect example of a person whose career

benefited from this dynamic. Wayne was a thirty-five-year-old

manager when he took over the Six Sigma program in Plastics

after running GE Plastics-Pacific. Using Six Sigma, he and his

team drastically reduced product variation and stretched plant

capacity 30 percent with little additional investment. Three years

later Wayne was promoted to CEO of GE’s $2 billion global

silicones business.

Dan Henson is another case in point. Dan was running a GE

Capital lending business in London when he had the courage to

volunteer to spearhead Six Sigma throughout GE Capital, a busi-

ness where a lot of people doubted it had any value. Dan found

out exactly where Six Sigma applied, and equally important,

where it did not. In two years, Dan achieved variation reduction in

highly repetitive activities, such as credit card processing and

mortgage insurance applications, and the results were impressive.

Today, Dan is CEO of one of GE Capital’s largest businesses,

Vendor Financial Services.

— 290 —

GETTING PROMOTED

GE is so big, if Wayne and Dan hadn’t put themselves on the

radar screen, who knows when they would have been made

CEOs. Certainly, it would have happened eventually, but not

nearly as quickly.

The best proof of the radar screen dynamic is in the numbers.

Today, more than half of the senior vice presidents reporting to Jeff

Immelt have worked in global assignments, and one-third of the

company’s approximately 180 officers have significant Six Sigma

experience.

Amassing mentors. The third career do concerns mentors, a

burning topic while I was at GE, and these days, wherever I speak.

People, it seems, are always looking for that one right mentor

to help them get ahead.

But in my experience, there is no one right mentor. There are

many right mentors.

I had dozens of informal mentors over the course of my career,

and each one taught me something important. My mentors

ranged from the classic older and wiser executive to coworkers

who were often younger than I was.

Some mentoring relationships lasted a lifetime, others lasted

just weeks.

One of the most meaningful mentors in my life never called

himself my mentor, nor did I ever identify him that way. I thought

of Si Cathcart, who was ten years my senior and a member of the

GE board, as my friend. To my great sadness, he died in 2002.

Si was everything people look

for in a great mentor—a person

who cheered me on and challenged

There is no one right

me in equal measure. His judgment

mentor. There are

about people was pitch-perfect, and

many right mentors.

I rarely made a big decision on hir-

ing without running it by him first.

— 291 —

YOUR CAREER

During the toughest period of my career, when I was choosing a

successor to recommend to the board, Si spent several hundred

hours over the course of five years visiting all of the candidates and