SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Voice and Dignity in Business
SUMMARY: The passage discusses the importance of providing employees with a voice and dignity in the workplace, regardless of their nationality, gender, age, or culture.
KEYWORDS: employee voice, employee dignity, workplace inclusion, business practices, management practices
---

that does it better—with more transparency, fairness, and speed. It

isn’t perfect. But differentiation, like candor, clarifies business and

makes it run better in every way.

— 51 —

4

Voice and Dignity

EVERY BRAIN IN THE GAME

RUDY G IULIANI HAS A S AY ING: “Know what you

believe.”I think he’s right, so I want to conclude this section

of the book with one of my core beliefs. I mention it because it is

the hinge for every principle you’ve just read about—mission and

values, candor, and differentiation.

The belief is this: every person in the world wants voice and

dignity, and every person deserves them.

By “voice,” I mean people want the opportunity to speak their

minds and have their ideas, opinions, and feelings heard, regardless

of their nationality, gender, age, or culture.

By “dignity,” I mean people inherently and instinctively want

to be respected for their work and effort and individuality.

If you’ve just read the above and said, “Well, obviously,” then

fine. I am assuming that most people are having that response. And

maybe the belief in voice and dignity doesn’t even need to be

stated, it is so widely accepted and its importance is so self-evident.

But I have been surprised over the past couple of years at how

— 53 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

often I end up coming back to this value when I talk about win-

ning.

Last year in China, a young woman in the audience stood and,

literally in tears, asked how any businessperson in her country

could practice candor and differentiation when “only the voice of

the boss is allowed.”

“We, the people underneath, have so many ideas. But we can-

not even imagine speaking them until we are the boss,” she said.

“That is fine if you are an entrepreneur and start your own com-

pany. Then you are the boss. But some of us are not able to do

that.”

I said that in the early days of GE’s operations in China, I had

seen the difficulties she had just described at our factories in Nan-

sha, Shanghai, and Beijing. But as the plants developed and busi-

ness practices evolved, I had seen an enormous improvement in

how the Chinese leaders who worked for GE were listening to

employees. I told her that I was confident that, with China’s ex-

panding market economy and the maturation of its management

practices, a more inclusive approach would eventually spread.

But the repression of voice and dignity is hardly a Chinese

problem. In fact, while the Chinese

woman was very emotional in her

questioning, people in every coun-

In China, a young

try I’ve visited share some of her

woman asked how any

frustration and concern on this mat-

businessperson in her

ter.

country could practice Now, when you are running a

unit or a division, you rarely think

candor and differentiation

that people aren’t speaking up or

when “only the voice of

that they’re not respected. It feels

the boss is allowed.”

like the people around you certainly

are, and your days are filled with vis-

— 54 —

VOICE AND DIGNITY

its, calls, and notes from people with

strong opinions. But it ends up that I’d ask, “Why aren’t you

what you experience is a skewed

asking those questions to

sample. The majority of people in

your own bosses?” The

most organizations don’t say any-

thing because they feel they can’t— answer would come back,

and because they haven’t been “I can’t bring that up.

asked.

I’d get killed.”

That became clear to me in the

late 1980s, just about every time I

had a marathon session at our training center in Crotonville.

Detailed questions about local business issues—questions that

should have been answered back on home turf—were thrown at

me from every direction. “Why is the refrigeration plant getting

all the new equipment while we’re letting laundry suffer?” and

“What are we moving the GE90 engine assembly to Durham for,

when we can do it right here in Evandale?”

In frustration, after several such questions, I’d invariably stop

the class to ask, “Why aren’t you asking those questions to your

own bosses?”

The answer would come back, “I can’t bring that up. I’d get

killed.”

“Why can you ask me?” I’d say.

“Because we feel anonymous here.”

After a year or so of these kinds of exchanges, we realized we

had to do something to create an environment back in the busi-

nesses where people at every level would speak out the way they

did at Crotonville.

The Work-Out process was born. These were two- or three-

day events held at GE sites around the world, patterned after New

England town meetings. Groups of thirty to a hundred employees

would come together with an outside facilitator to discuss better

— 55 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

ways of doing things and how to

Some people have eliminate some of the bureaucracy

and roadblocks that were hindering

better ideas than others;

them. The boss would be present at

some are smarter or

the beginning of each session, laying

more experienced or out the rationale for the Work-Out.

more creative. But He or she would also commit to

two things: to give an on-the-spot

everyone should be

yes or no to 75 percent of the rec-

heard and respected.

ommendations that came out of the

session, and to resolve the remaining

25 percent within thirty days. The

boss would then disappear until the end of the session, so as not to

stifle open discussion, returning only at the end to make good on

his or her promise.

Tens of thousands of these sessions took place over several

years, until they became a way of life in the company. They are no

longer big events but part of how GE goes about solving prob-

lems.

Whether it was a refrigeration plant in Louisville, Kentucky,

where employees debated faster and better paint systems, or a jet