SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and Transformation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of cultivating a culture of candor within organizations to drive change and competitiveness in the face of global competition.
KEYWORDS: candor, organizational culture, business transformation, global competition, change management
---

their increased costs on to the consumer.

It was a nice party until the Japanese arrived at the door with

their average-quality, low-cost imported cars that within a few

years became high-quality, low-cost cars, many of them made in

nonunion U.S. factories.

But until the foreign threat spread, most American companies

had very little to do with the kind of frank debate and fast action

that characterizes a candid organization. They had little use for it.

And so countless layers of bureaucracy and old-fashioned social

codes of behavior led to a kind of enforced politeness and formal-

ity throughout most organizations. There were very few overt

confrontations about strategy or values; decisions were made

mostly behind closed doors. And when it came to appraisals, those

— 30 —

CANDOR

too were conducted with a kind of courteous remoteness. Good

performers were praised, but because companies were so finan-

cially strong, poor performers could be warehoused in a far-flung

department or division until retirement.

Without candor, everyone saved face, and business lumbered

along. The status quo was accepted. Fake behavior was just a day at

the office. And people with initiative, gumption, and guts were

labeled troublesome—or worse.

You would predict, perhaps, that given all its competitive

advantages, candor would have made a grand entrance with the

Japanese. But Japan didn’t make it happen, nor did Ireland,

Mexico, India, or China, to name a few of the big hitters in the

global marketplace today. Instead, most companies have fought

global competition through more conventional means: layoffs,

drastic cost reductions, and in the best cases, with innovation.

Candor, while inching its way in, still remains a very small part

of the arsenal.

IT CAN BE DONE

Now for the really bad news. Even though candor is vital to win-

ning, it is hard and time-consuming to instill in any group, no mat-

ter what size.

Hard because you are fighting human nature and entrenched

organizational behaviors, and time-consuming, as in years and

years. At GE, it took us close to a decade to use candor as a matter

of course, and it was by no means universal after twenty.

Still it can be done. There is nothing scientific about the

process. To get candor, you reward it, praise it, and talk about it.

You make public heroes out of people who demonstrate it. Most

of all, you yourself demonstrate it in an exuberant and even exag-

gerated way—even when you’re not the boss.

— 31 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

Imagine yourself for a second at a

To get candor, you meeting where the subject is growth

and how to get it at an old-line divi-

reward it, praise it,

sion. Everyone is sitting around the

and talk about it. Most

table, civilly talking about how hard

of all, you yourself it is to win in this particular market

demonstrate it in an or industry. They discuss the tough

competition. They surface the same

exuberant and even

old reasons why they can’t grow and

exaggerated way.

why they are actually doing well in

this environment. In fact, by the time

the meeting ends, they’ve managed

to pat themselves on the back for the “success” they’ve enjoyed

“under the circumstances.”

Inside your head, you’re about ready to burst, as you tell your-

self,“Here we go again.I know Bob and Mary across the room feel

the same way I do—the complacency around here is killing us.”

Outside, all three of you are playing the game. You’re nodding.

Now imagine an environment where you take responsibility

for candor. You, Bob, or Mary would ask questions like:

“Isn’t there a new product or service idea in this business

somewhere that we just haven’t thought of yet?”

“Can we jump-start this business with an acquisition?”

“This business is taking up so many resources. Why don’t we

get the hell out of it?”

What a different meeting! What a lot more fun, and how much

better for everyone.

Another situation that happens all the time is a high-growth

business with a self-satisfied crowd managing it. You know the

scene at the long-range planning meeting. The managers show up

with double-digit growth—say 15 percent—and pound out slide

after slide showing how well they are doing.Top management nods

— 32 —

CANDOR

their approval, but you’re sitting there knowing there’s a lot more

juice in that business. To compound matters, the people presenting

the slides are peers of yours, and there’s that age-old code hanging

in the air: if you don’t challenge mine, I won’t challenge yours.

Frankly, the only way I know of to get out of this bind—and

introduce candor—is to poke around in a nonthreatening way:

“Jeez, you’re good. What a terrific job. This is the best business

we’ve got. Why not put more resources into it and go for more?”

“With the great team you’ve put in place, there must be ten ac-

quisitions out there for you. Have you looked globally?”

Those questions, and others like them, have the power to

change the meeting from a self-congratulatory parade to a stimu-

lating working session.

TRUTH AND CONSEQUENCES

Now, you may be thinking, I can’t raise those questions because I

don’t want to look like a jerk. I want to be a team player.

It is true that candid comments definitely freak people out at

first. In fact, the more polite or bureaucratic or formal your orga-

nization, the more your candor will scare and upset people, and,

yes, it could kill you.

That’s a risk,and only you can decide if you’re willing to take it.

Needless to say, you’ll have an easier time of installing candor in

your organization if you are closer to the top. But don’t blame

your boss or the CEO if your com-

pany lacks candor—open dialogue

can start anywhere. I was speaking

It is true that candid

my mind when I had four employ-

comments definitely

ees at Noryl, the smallest, newest

freak people out at first.