SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Engagement and Communication
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of leaders constantly communicating the company's vision and aligning employee rewards to drive vision-aligned behavior.
KEYWORDS: vision communication, employee engagement, organizational alignment, leadership, mission and values
---

one of your employees in the middle of the night and asked him,

“Where are we going?” he could still answer in a half-asleep stu-

por,“We’re going to keep improving our service to individual

contractors and expand our market by aggressively reaching out to

small wholesalers.”

I had just that kind of experience last year when I was out

— 67 —

YOUR COMPANY

hawking an investment fund for

There were times I Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, where I

consult. At one dinner session in

talked about the

Chicago, the room was filled with

company’s direction so

about a dozen investors, all focused

many times in one day on our investment criteria and pro-

that I was completely jections for returns.

Steve Klimkowski, the chief

sick of hearing it myself.

investment officer of Northwestern

Memorial HealthCare, was one of

them. But in the midst of all the financial chatter, he was just as

interested in talking about his hospital’s mission to deliver “excel-

lent patient care—from the patient’s perspective.” He had exam-

ples of how employees at every level—including him, the

investment guy—had transformed their work to fulfill the vision.

He had been coached, for example, never to give outpatients

directions to a location in the hospital, but to walk them there. At

his performance review, Steve had been asked to list several ways

in which he personally had improved the patient’s experience at

Northwestern Memorial. In fact, Steve’s understanding of his role

in achieving the mission, and his passion for it, were so real that

after talking to him for fifteen minutes, you could wake me in the

middle of the night and I could tell you about it!

Clearly, Northwestern Memorial’s leaders had communicated

the hospital’s vision with amazing clarity and consistency. And

that’s the point. You have to talk about vision constantly—

basically, to the point of gagging. There were times I talked about

the company’s direction so many times in one day that I was

completely sick of hearing it myself. But I realized the message

was always new to someone. And so, you keep on repeating it.

And you talk to everyone.

One of the most common problems in organizations is that

— 68 —

LEADERSHIP

leaders communicate the vision to their closest colleagues and its

implications never filter down to people in frontline positions.

Think about all the times you have bumped into a rude or harried

clerk at a high-service department store, or been put on hold by a

call center operator at a company that promises speed and conve-

nience.

Somehow, they haven’t heard the mission, maybe because it

wasn’t shouted in their direction, loud enough or often enough.

Or maybe their rewards weren’t aligned.

And that’s the final piece of this particular leadership rule. If

you want people to live and breathe the vision, “show them the

money” when they do, be it with salary, bonus, or significant

recognition of some sort. To quote a friend of mine, Chuck Ames,

the former chairman and CEO of Reliance Electric, “Show me a

company’s various compensation plans, and I’ll show you how its

people behave.”

Vision is an essential element of the leader’s job. But no vision

is worth the paper it’s printed on unless it is communicated con-

stantly and reinforced with rewards. Only then will it leap off the

page—and come to life.

RULE 3. Leaders get into everyone’s skin, exuding

positive energy and optimism.

You know that old saying “The fish rots from the head.” It’s mainly

used to refer to how politics and corruption filter down into an

organization, but it could just as easily be used to describe the

effect of a bad attitude at the top of any team, large or small. Even-

tually, everyone’s infected.

The leader’s mood is, for lack of a better word, catching. You’ve

— 69 —

YOUR COMPANY

seen the dynamic a hundred times. An upbeat manager who goes

through the day with a positive outlook somehow ends up run-

ning a team or organization filled with ...well, upbeat people

with positive outlooks. A pessimistic sourpuss somehow ends up

with an unhappy tribe all his own.

Unhappy tribes have a tough time winning.

Of course, sometimes there are good reasons to be down. The

economy is bad, competition is brutal—whatever. Work can be

hard.

But your job as leader is to fight the gravitational pull of nega-

tivism. That doesn’t mean you sugarcoat the challenges your team

faces. It does mean you display an energizing, can-do attitude

about overcoming them. It means you get out of your office and

into everyone’s skin, really caring about what they’re doing and

how they’re faring as you take the hill together.

Now, you might be thinking, “That kind of emotional bond-

ing—it just ain’t me.”

And it isn’t for some people. I’ve seen a few capable managers

run their businesses while keeping their people at arm’s length.

These managers often demonstrated the right values, like candor

and rigor, and they delivered good results.

But in never really getting inside their people, something was

lost. Work stayed work.

The right attitude could have made it so much more.

Make that attitude yours.

RULE 4. Leaders establish trust with candor, trans-

parency, and credit.

For some people, becoming a leader can be a real power trip. They

relish the feeling of control over both people and information.

— 70 —

LEADERSHIP

And so they keep secrets, reveal little

of their thinking about people and Leaders never score off

their performance, and hoard what

their own people by

they know about the business and its

stealing an idea and

future.

This kind of behavior certainly claiming it as their own.

establishes the leader as boss, but it

drains trust right out of a team.

What is trust? I could give you a dictionary definition, but you

know it when you feel it. Trust happens when leaders are trans-

parent, candid, and keep their word. It’s that simple.