SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Leadership and Strategy
SUMMARY: This text discusses successful business leaders and their strategies, highlighting the importance of people, ideas, and action in achieving success.
KEYWORDS: business leadership, business strategy, organizational transformation, employee empowerment, entrepreneurial mindset
---

gating the hills and valleys of work-life balance. There is Chris

Navetta, the CEO of U.S. Steel Kosice, who helped transform a

struggling city in Slovakia while turning a former state-owned

steel mill into a flourishing, profitable enterprise. There’s Kenneth

Yu, the head of 3M’s Chinese operations, who catapulted his busi-

nesses from modest to high growth by throwing out the phony

ritual of annual budgeting and replacing it with a sky’s-the-limit

dialogue about opportunities. There’s Mark Little, who was devas-

tated after a demotion at GE but fought his way back to a huge

promotion with courage, perseverance, and great results.

People are everything when it comes to winning, and so this

book is a lot about people—in some cases, the mistakes they’ve

— 6 —

INTRODUCTION

made, but more often, their successes. But mostly this book is

about ideas and the power of putting them into action.

Now, at this point, there might be readers out there who are

skeptical. They’re thinking: Winning is just too nuanced and com-

plex a topic to cover in twenty chapters. I don’t care how many

people and ideas are in this book!

Yes, winning is nuanced and complex, not to mention brutally

hard.

But it also happens to be achievable. You can win. But to do

that, you need to know what makes winning happen.

This book offers no easy formulas. There are none.

Depending on the chapter, this book does, however, give you

guidelines to follow, rules to consider, assumptions to adopt, and

mistakes to avoid. The strategy chapter provides a three-step

process; the chapter on finding the right job offers you good signs

and warning signals. There are also several themes you’ll hear

again and again: the team with the best players wins, so find and

retain the best players; don’t overbrain things to the point of

inaction; no matter what part of a business you’re in, share learning

relentlessly; have a positive attitude and spread it around; never let

yourself be a victim; and for goodness’ sake—have fun.

Yes, have fun.

Business is a game, and winning that game is a total blast!

THE ROAD AHEAD

Before we get started, a word on how this book is organized. It has

four parts.

The first, called “Underneath It All,”is conceptual. It certainly

contains more management philosophy than most businesspeople

have time for on any given day, and certainly more than I ever

thought about in one sitting when I was working the day shift. But

— 7 —

INTRODUCTION

there is a substructure of principles to my approach to business,

and so I lay them out in this first part.

In brief, the four principles are about the importance of a

strong mission and concrete values; the absolute necessity of can-

dor in every aspect of management; the power of differentiation,

meaning a system based on meritocracy; and the value of each in-

dividual receiving voice and dignity.

The next section of this book, “Your Company,” is about the

innards of organizations. It’s about mechanics—people, processes,

and culture. Its chapters look at leadership, hiring, people manage-

ment, letting people go, managing change, and crisis management.

After “Your Company” comes “Your Competition,” the sec-

tion of this book about the world outside your organization. It dis-

cusses how you create strategic advantages, devise meaningful

budgets, grow organically, grow through mergers and acquisitions,

and it attempts to demystify a topic that never ceases to intrigue

and baffle people, the quality program Six Sigma.

The next section of this book is called “Your Career,” and it’s

about managing the arc and the quality of your professional life. It

starts with a chapter on finding the right job, not just a first job but

the right job at any point in your career. It also includes a chapter

on what it takes to get promoted, and another on a hard spot we all

find ourselves in at one time or another—working for a bad boss.

The last chapter of this section addresses the very human desire to

have it all—all at the same time—which as you already know, you

can’t really do. You can, however, know what your boss thinks

about the matter, and you should—and that’s one aspect of this

chapter.

The last section of this book is called “Tying Up Loose Ends,”

and in it, I answer nine questions that did not fall into any of the

above categories. They concern managing the “China threat,” di-

versity, the impact of new regulations like the Sarbanes-Oxley

— 8 —

INTRODUCTION

Act, and how business should respond to societal crises like AIDS.

There is also a question in there about how my successor, Jeff Im-

melt, is doing (in a word, great), the status of my golf game, and

whether I think I’ll go to heaven.

Now, that was a question that stopped me!

As for the rest of the questions in this book—they didn’t ex-

actly stop me, but they did challenge me to think hard about what

I believe and why.

This book has a lot of answers, but not all—because business is

always changing and the world is always changing.

As a Dutch entrepreneur said to me last year, “Every day in life,

there is a new question. That is what keeps us going.”

There are new questions—and new answers too. In fact, I have

learned almost as much about business since I left GE as when I

worked there. I learned from every single question asked of me.

And I hope my responses will help you learn too.

— 9 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

1. MISSION AND VALUES

So Much Hot Air About Something So Real 13

2. CANDOR

The Biggest Dirty Little Secret in Business 25

3. DIFFERENTIATION

Cruel and Darwinian? Try Fair and Effective 37

4. VOICE AND DIGNITY

Every Brain in the Game 53

1

Mission and Values

SO MUCH HOT AIR ABOUT

SOMETHING SO REAL