SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Expansion
SUMMARY: The text describes how GE aggressively promoted and supported new ventures, such as expanding into China and launching MSNBC and CNBC, to drive growth.
KEYWORDS: business expansion, cheerleading, new ventures, promotion, support
---

tant and a few employees.

The impact was immediate. Jim was like the Pied Piper. As

soon as headquarters raised the bar and sent someone to China

who was widely acknowledged to be a star, all of our businesses

started sending their best people too.

Jim and his team launched GE businesses in China into the $4

billion operation they are today. He has since gone on to do a great

job as CEO of 3M.

GUIDELINE TWO: Make an exaggerated commo-

tion about the potential and importance of the new

venture.

When we sent Jim McNerney to Asia, we didn’t just send out a

press release and let the news go at that. Instead, we made a hoopla

about the event. I ranted and raved about Jim’s appointment at

every senior management meeting, and when I was in the field

visiting businesses, I made sure everyone got the message that GE

was going aggressively into China and we had to send our best.Jim

was the perfect role model for the point I was trying to convey.

In the same way, when NBC launched the cable channels

MSNBC and CNBC, I gave them an inordinate amount of atten-

tion in every public setting I could find. At NBC business reviews,

for instance, I would focus much more intently on these cable pre-

sentations than on NBC’s West Coast team promoting their new

— 209 —

YOUR COMPETITION

network comedy shows. I didn’t ask questions about the stars ap-

pearing in NBC’s next promising big hit. Instead, to demonstrate

my support, I would ask the executives of MSNBC and CNBC—

neither one then posting any revenues to speak of—about sub-

scriber growth and content.

Start-ups need cheerleading—constant and loud.

Cheerleading, however, isn’t just about senior managers mak-

ing noise. It’s also about giving new ventures sponsorship. This

may mean breaking old bureaucratic norms, but with a new ven-

ture, organizational visibility is critical. For instance, new ven-

tures should report at least two levels higher than sales would

justify. If possible, they should report directly to the CEO. At the

very least, they should always have a special place on the CEO’s

priority list.

Admittedly,there is one big problem with making a huge scene

about a new venture.

How dumb you look if it fails.

You can end up looking very dumb. That is part of the gam-

ble, and I’m not going to minimize it. It was widely reported

how strongly I supported the XFL, the new extreme football

league that NBC launched in 2000. As a business opportunity, I

couldn’t think of a thing wrong with it, and I said so, over and

over again! When the XFL failed

after a painful twelve-week season,

New ventures should

losing $60 million for the com-

report at least two levels

pany, the press had real fun with it,

higher than sales would making me and Dick Ebersol, the

XFL’s other vocal sponsor, the

justify. If possible, they

butt of plenty of jokes. Fortunately,

should report directly to

the hammering ended relatively

the CEO.

quickly.

So what’s the bottom line here?

— 210 —

ORGANIC GROWTH

Even with the risk, go ahead and make a scene for new ven-

tures—an exaggerated scene. You’ll doom them if you don’t. If the

venture fails anyway, recognize your part. Don’t point fingers. You

believed, but it didn’t work out.

If the venture wins, relish the team’s success. It will feel great.

GUIDELINE THREE: Err on the side of freedom;

get off the new venture’s back.

This is a guideline that is not really a guideline, because when it

comes to how much autonomy to give a new venture, there is no

formula, only an iterative process. The main thing to remember is:

throughout that process, give a new venture more freedom than

you might like, not less.

Finding the right balance between supporting, monitoring,

and smothering a new venture is not unlike when you send your

kid off to college. Now that he’s on his own, you want nothing

more than for him to take full responsibility for his life. You also

don’t want him to flunk out or carouse too heavily. And so you

begin a game of give-and-take. At first, you visit and call a lot. You

frequently inquire about tests, new friends, and weekend activities.

When everything seems to be running smoothly, you let out

the rope.

When the first C minus comes home, you pull it in.

When the next report card is all As and Bs, you let it out.

When you get a call from the campus police because of an un-

fortunate drinking episode, you really crank it in.

That’s how it goes with new ventures, except that you can’t re-

place your kid. You can—and should—replace a new venture’s

leaders if too much cranking is required.

— 211 —

YOUR COMPETITION

Ultimately, you want this iterative process to lead to a new ven-

ture having more and more autonomy.

Now, we all know that in large companies, brand-new ventures

have neither the results nor the political capital to get their own

shops. In small companies, it’s too easy to fold a new business into

the core.

But autonomy gives people ownership and pride. In ideal situ-

ations, new ventures with strong leaders should have all their own

tools, like their own R & D, sales, and marketing teams. They

should be allowed to place their own audacious bets on people

and strategies.

My commitment to autonomy for new ventures has its roots in

my earliest days as the venture manager for Noryl, the new plastic

that had about as much promise as mud when we started experi-

menting with it in 1964. But as soon as the team got Noryl’s

chemical composition to work and eliminated its technical flaws,

I fought for my own operation.

The higher-ups thought I should use the pool sales force and