SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Career Development
SUMMARY: This text discusses finding the right job and the signals that indicate a good or bad job fit.
KEYWORDS: job fit, career path, career planning, job search, career development
---

It makes perfect sense that Meg Whitman would end up as the

CEO of eBay, the retailer of absolutely everything, doesn’t it? But

you know there was nothing specifically planned about her career.

EBay didn’t even exist until a few years ago!

— 255 —

YOUR CAREER

The point is: it is virtually impossible to know where any given

job will take you. In fact, if you meet someone who has faithfully

followed a career plan, try not to get seated beside him at a dinner

party. What a bore!

Now, I’m obviously not going to tell you to let fate take its

course. A great job can make your life exciting and give it mean-

ing. The wrong job can drain the life right out of you.

But how do you find the right job?

The first answer is simple: you endure the same gummy, time-

consuming, up-and-down, iterative process that all working people

go through. You take one job, discover what you like and don’t like

about it and what you’re good and bad at, and then, in time, change

jobs to get something closer to the right fit. And you do that until

one day you realize—hey, I’m finally in the right job. I like what I’m

doing, and I’m making the trade-offs I’m willing to make.

Yes, trade-offs, because very few jobs are perfect. You may love

your work with every fiber of your being but wish the money

were better. Or you may only like the work, but love your col-

leagues. Regardless of its dimensions, the right job for you exists.

My goal in this chapter is to make finding that job a somewhat

shorter and, hopefully, less mysterious process.

How?

Luckily, most jobs send out signals about how right they are for

you—or not. Those signals apply to jobs at every level of an orga-

nization; you can be right out of school, a middle manager trying

to move up, or a senior executive looking for a top job. Of course,

there are special situations in the job search process that require

separate consideration—finding your first job, finding a job if

you’re stuck in a situation, and finding a job after you’ve been let

go. We’ll consider those at the end of this chapter.

But first, let’s look at the general signals—both good and bad—

of job fit.

— 256 —

THE RIGHT JOB

IMAGINE YOU ARE CONSIDERING

A NEW JOB . . .

SIGNAL TAKE IT AS A GOOD BE CONCERNED IF . . .

SIGN IF . . .

PEOPLE You like the people a lot— You feel like you’ll need

you can relate to them, and to put on a persona at

you genuinely enjoy their work. After a visit to the

company. In fact, they even company, you find yourself

think and act like you do. saying things like, “I don’t

need to be friends with the

people I work with.”

OPPORTUNITY The job gives you the You’re being hired as an

opportunity to grow as a expert, and upon arrival,

person and a professional, you will most likely be the

and you get the feeling you smartest person in the

will learn things there that room.

you didn’t even know you

needed to learn.

OPTIONS The job gives you a The industry has peaked or

credential you can take has awful economics, and

with you, and is in a the company itself, for any

business and industry with number of reasons, will do

a future. little to expand your career

options.

OWNERSHIP You are taking the job for You are taking the job for

yourself, or you know any number of other

whom you are taking it for, constituents, such as a

and feel at peace with the spouse who wants you to

bargain. travel less or the sixth-

grade teacher who said you

would never amount to

anything.

WORK The “stuff” of the job turns The job feels like a job. In

CONTENT your crank—you love the taking it, you say things

work, it feels fun and like, “This is just until

meaningful to you, and something better comes

even touches something along,” or “You can’t beat

primal in your soul. the money.”

— 257 —

YOUR CAREER

A WORD ABOUT PAY

Before we talk about each of these signals in more detail, a few

thoughts about money, the elephant in the middle of the room

during any job discussion.

There is nothing worse than a guy who has made some money

along the way opining that money shouldn’t matter to people

who are picking a job. So I won’t do that. In fact, I’ll tell you that

of course money matters—it matters a lot.

When I took my first job, I had several offers, but the one from

GE was $1,500 a year more than any other. Coming out of gradu-

ate school, I was broke. That $1,500 felt huge, and it made a differ-

ence in my decision. A year later, I got my first raise from GE.

When I found out that it was exactly the same amount as every-

one else in my unit, my fanatical belief in merit pay made me say,

“Forget this place!” But I didn’t quit until I found another job at a

chemical company in Skokie, Illinois, which was going to pay me

25 percent more. I ultimately ended up being persuaded to stay

with GE, but I wouldn’t have if the company hadn’t matched my

salary offer in Skokie.

Because there is no way to disentangle money from decisions

about job and career, the best you can really do is come to terms

with how much money matters to you. Just remember, it can feel

very noble to say that you don’t care about being rich; it’s another

thing to live with that decision over the years, especially as mort-

gages and tuitions start to pile up.

There is nothing inherently wrong with wanting money or