SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Global Business Challenges
SUMMARY: This text discusses the challenges faced by companies competing with China's low-cost labor and manufacturing capabilities, and explores strategies for staying competitive in a global market.
KEYWORDS: global competition, low-cost manufacturing, business strategy, China, economic growth
---

20

Here, There, and Everywhere

THE QUESTIONS THAT

ALMOST GOT AWAY

BAC K I N THE INTRO DUCTION, I said that I was

inspired to write this book by the questions I received travel-

ing around the world over the past several years. Most of those

questions, and my answers to them, ended up fitting into the nine-

teen chapters preceding this one.

A few questions, however, just couldn’t be wedged into one

topic area or another, be it leadership, hiring, change, strategy, or

work-life balance. They were too broad, narrow, specific, or

unusual. They just defied categorization.

And yet these questions actually call to mind several of the

themes that run through this book—the importance of candor

and positive energy, for instance, the effectiveness of differentia-

tion, the importance of voice, the power of authenticity and

meritocracy, and the absolute necessity of change and never letting

yourself be a victim.

So I’m going to end this book with the “questions that almost

got away,” hoping that they cover any territory I’ve missed, and

— 339 —

TYING UP LOOSE ENDS

perhaps even remind you of some of the major signposts of the

territory we’ve covered so far.

This question was posed at a working dinner in Mexico City,

attended by about thirty CEOs from various industries:

We spent the last ten years bringing our company

up to speed with training and process improvements,

and with our low-cost labor, we were extremely

competitive. But now we’re getting killed by China.

How can we stay alive?

I’ve heard some form of this question everywhere—except

China, of course.

When I was in Dublin in 2001, for instance, a couple of months

after Gateway announced it was closing up shop, an Irish technol-

ogy executive anxiously asked, “Does this mean the end of the

long boom for us?” In Milan in 2004, I spoke with a German

manager who wondered if his company’s only hope was to sell out

to an Asian company that wanted his European distribution capa-

bility. At a conference in Chicago the same year, a machine parts

manufacturer based in Cleveland described in agonizing detail

how the Chinese kept lowering and lowering the price of their

competing products. “Will there be any manufacturing jobs left in

Ohio?” he asked.

There is no easy answer to the China question. Yes, you hear

about China’s problems—its scarcity of middle managers, for

instance, and the massive number of poor farming families moving

into unprepared cities with not enough jobs to support them.Lum-

bering, bureaucratic state-owned enterprises still make up most of

its economy. And the country’s banks are saddled with bad loans.

But for China, these aren’t mountains to be scaled, they’re blips

— 340 —

THE QUESTIONS THAT ALMOST GOT AWAY

to be flattened by the giant, high-speed bulldozer that is its econ-

omy. Increasing prosperity from spectacular economic growth

over the past twenty years has given the Chinese enormous

self-confidence. But China has so much more: a massive pool of

low-cost, hardworking laborers and a rapidly expanding number

of well-educated engineers.

And then, there’s its work ethic, which may be its single biggest

strength. Entrepreneurship and competition are baked into the

Chinese culture. Consider the executive who hosted me during a

weeklong visit to Shanghai and Beijing last year. She said she’s at

the office from 7:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m., goes home for dinner to

join her husband and son until 8:00 p.m., and then returns to work

until midnight. “This is very typical here,” she said, “six days a

week.” And she works for a U.S. multinational!

So, faced with the inevitability of China, what do you do?

First and foremost, get out of the tank. The sense of bleakness

that I heard from Mexico to Milan and across the United States is

perhaps understandable, but it doesn’t get you anywhere.

It’s not as if the developed economies of the world are in sham-

bles. The developed world has large consumer and industrial

markets, all thirsting for products, with great brands and distribu-

tion mechanisms to serve them. Its economies have open and

mature legal systems. They are transparent societies, with demo-

cratic governments and good education and social systems. Its

businesses have fully developed management processes. The

United States has the added advantage of a large, thriving venture

capital market with the capability to provide seed capital for just

about any good idea.

The list of the developed world’s competitive advantages could

go on and on.

So think positively. At the very least, a can-do attitude is a place

to start.

— 341 —

TYING UP LOOSE ENDS

Remember my description of the Japanese threat in the early

’80s? At times it felt like we were dying, and everyone seemed to

agree. Journalists and political pundits predicted the imminent de-

mise of industrial companies like GE, and you couldn’t blame

them, given the circumstances. Inflation was double digit, and the

prime rate peaked at more than 20 percent. In Syracuse, we were

making TV sets that cost more coming out of the factory than the

Japanese were selling them for in a mall less than two miles away.

It sure felt like the worst of times.

But that’s the point, really. In the heat of battle, it always feels

like the worst of times. Low-cost competitors are not new. Hong

Kong and Taiwan have been in the game for over forty years, and

Mexico, the Philippines, India, and Eastern Europe have been a

factor for some time. Even in the late ’90s, when the wind was at

everyone’s back and making money was easier than it had been in

decades, work felt really hard. Big companies were labeled

dinosaurs, and it became conventional wisdom that technology

start-ups would soon rule the world. In fact, it was said whole

industries were going to be obliterated by the Internet.

Then the bubble burst. Many of those little companies that