SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Job Fit and Workplace Culture
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of finding a job that aligns with one's values, personality, and work style, and the challenges of working in an organization with mismatched sensibilities.
KEYWORDS: job fit, workplace culture, personality fit, shared sensibilities, career decisions
---

very noble to say that you don’t care about being rich; it’s another

thing to live with that decision over the years, especially as mort-

gages and tuitions start to pile up.

There is nothing inherently wrong with wanting money or

feeling indifferent to it or anything in between. But if you’re not

honest with yourself about those feelings during the first years of

your job journey, you’ll end up doing a lot of second-guessing

later.

— 258 —

THE RIGHT JOB

Now on to the signals of job fit, which have been listed in no

particular order, since they all count.

PEOPLE

That said, the first signal concerns people, because everything else

about a job can be perfect—the task, pay, location—but if you do

not enjoy your colleagues on a day-to-day basis, work can be tor-

ture.

This may seem obvious, but I am surprised how often I meet

people who have taken jobs in companies where they do not share

the organization’s overall sensibilities. By that, I mean a range of

values and personality traits and behaviors, from how intense peo-

ple act, to how comfortable they are with confrontation, to how

candid they are about performance, to how much they laugh at

meetings.

If you join a company where your sensibilities don’t fit in,

you’ll find yourself putting on a persona just to get along. What a

career killer—to fake who you are every day.

I know a woman—we’ll call her Claire—who is an MBA who

became a manager for a nonprofit after graduation. At first, Claire

thought she had the perfect job—she could use her business skills

to run an organization and still “make the world a better place,”to

use her words.

But several years later, Claire was at her wit’s end. Her col-

leagues made every decision at a snail’s pace. “It doesn’t make any

difference if we are picking where to have lunch or coming up

with a marketing plan,” she recounted.“Nobody can ever feel ‘not

heard.’ Everybody has to reach consensus. It’s driving me crazy!

This organization has all the right intentions,but nothing ever gets

done.”

Finally, Claire decided that she could no longer tolerate the

— 259 —

YOUR CAREER

sensibilities mismatch she felt in a

You need to find “your nonprofit environment, and she

began to search for a consulting job

people,” the earlier in

in the private sector. She identified

your career the better.

one firm in particular that was

No job is ideal without known for its pro bono work, and

the presence of shared she consoled herself with the notion

that she could work there and still

sensibilities.

keep one foot (or toe) in the “virtu-

ous” world.

The problem was, the firm

wouldn’t hire her. “You haven’t worked at the same speed or with

the same kind of intensity we require,” they told her. “We need

someone who can hit the ground running.” Basically, they said,

“We need someone like us.”

Claire is still at her nonprofit job, resigned to stay there and

make the best of it. The sad thing is, she said, “I found ‘my people’

at that consulting firm,” but it was too late. “They just didn’t see I

could be like them.”

You too need to find “your people,” the earlier in your career

the better. Even if a job seems ideal in every other way, without the

presence of shared sensibilities, it’s not ideal for you.

OPPORTUNITY

The second job-fit signal concerns opportunity, as in, how much

does the job offer you to grow and learn?

Without doubt, it can be very appealing to take a job where

you suspect you will have no problem hitting it out of the park.

Surefire success has its rewards—in the soul and the pocketbook.

But any job you take should feel somewhat challenging going

in. It should make you think, “I can do most of the work, but there

— 260 —

THE RIGHT JOB

are certainly skills and knowledge this job requires that I don’t

have yet. I’m going to learn something here.”

In other words, any new job should feel like a stretch, not a

layup.

Why? Because stretching, growing, learning—all these activi-

ties keep you engaged and energized. They have the effect of

making work more interesting, and they keep your head in the

game.

Yes, a stretch job increases the possibility of you screwing up.

That’s why you should also make sure you join a company where

learning is truly a value, growth for every employee is a real objec-

tive, mistakes aren’t always fatal, and there are lots of people around

whom you can reach out to for coaching and mentoring.

Incidentally, stretching doesn’t—and shouldn’t—just happen at

the beginning of a person’s career.

Take the case of Robert Bagby, who runs the brokerage firm

A.G. Edwards. Bob says that he has twice taken on real stretch

jobs—twenty-six years apart. The first time was when he began

as a broker for another firm in Kansas City. The second time

was in 2001, when he was named chairman and CEO of A.G.

Edwards.

“At first, being a broker—my God, I had no idea what I was

doing or why I had taken the job,”Bob said recently. “The phone

was like a dangerous weapon. I was afraid to touch it.” Within a

few months, though, Bob had learned enough new skills to start to

excel. He came to love the broker-

age business, and soon enough, his

territory expanded and promotions

Any new job should

started rolling in.

feel like a stretch,

He didn’t feel out of his element

not a layup.

again until the A.G. Edwards board

picked him for the top position.

— 261 —

YOUR CAREER

“It was that same feeling again,” Bob says. “There’s no pretrain-

ing to be a CEO. All your past history, and all your past successes,

they don’t really matter anymore. You have to earn your respect all

over again.”