SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Work-Life Balance
SUMMARY: This passage explores how bosses prioritize company competitiveness over work-life balance, aiming to capture employees' full commitment and energy.
KEYWORDS: work-life balance, employee productivity, company competitiveness, employee commitment, employee retention
---

check from your boss’s point of view.

1. Your boss’s top priority is competitiveness. Of

course he wants you to be happy, but only inasmuch as

it helps the company win. In fact, if he is doing his job

right, he is making your job so exciting that your per-

sonal life becomes a less compelling draw.

Clearly, most bosses want their employees to have great personal

lives. Nobody wants their people hauling family or social prob-

lems into the office, where they can leak into the atmosphere and

do nothing for productivity.

Then there’s that matter of retention. Satisfied people tend to

stay where they are and work with more enthusiasm. So all in all,

good bosses don’t want their people to feel unbalanced.

But more than that, bosses want to win—that’s what they’re

paid for. And that’s why they want all of you—your brain, your

body, your energy, and your commitment. After all, they have a big

game to win, and they can’t do that effectively with absentee play-

ers—in particular, if the other team draws its players from coun-

tries like India and China, where work-life balance is not exactly a

cultural priority.

The fact is: work-life balance concerns are actually a luxury—

“enjoyed” largely by people who are able to trade time for money,

— 320 —

WORK-LIFE BALANCE

and vice versa. You can bet your bottom dollar that the Korean

grocer who just opened his shop in New York doesn’t worry

about whether he has time to get to the gym, just as you can be

absolutely certain that 99 percent of the entrepreneurs in China’s

huge emerging competitive workforce don’t wring their hands

about working late every night.

Your boss is fully aware that most competitors in the global

marketplace do not invite their people to decrease their produc-

tivity in the name of work-life balance.

That’s why, when your boss thinks about meeting your work-

life balance needs, he is guided by the question: How can I

accommodate this person and still keep him or her totally riveted

to the job?

The truth is, your boss wants 150 percent of you and, if you are

good enough, he will do almost anything to get it, even if your

family wants 150 percent too.

It’s not that bosses want you to give up your family or your

hobbies or any other interests. It’s not that diabolical. They’re just

driven by the desire to capture all of

your energy and harness it for the

company. It’s not that bosses

In most cases, bosses see a good

want you to give up your

offense as their best defense against

family or your hobbies.

life’s yearnings—and that offense

They’re just driven by

would be to make work so exciting

and so much fun that people don’t the desire to capture

actually want to go home for din-

all of your energy and

ner, let alone play amateur chess or

harness it for the

write the great American novel in

company.

their attic.

For many years, Gary Reiner

— 321 —

YOUR CAREER

worked for me as the head of Business Development in Fairfield.

Although he never advertised it, Gary had clearly made a work-

life balance choice where time with his family played a large role.

Every day he showed up early at the office, but he was a stickler

about leaving at six, and he rarely engaged in the banter that

slowed work down. He was about as cool and efficient as you

could get.

But Gary was a star in every way. His performance in a corpo-

rate staff job year after year opened up huge operational opportu-

nities for him, but he always said he liked what he was doing, his

travel load was manageable, and he didn’t want to move. That was

OK with me. I loved what he was doing, and the whole company

was benefiting.

But I worried, as I’m sure Gary did, about how long we could

keep a staff person fresh and engaged. I didn’t want Gary to leave

GE or just check out mentally.

For the next decade, every time we launched a major initia-

tive—from Services to Six Sigma to e-business—we asked Gary to

take charge of organizing councils,comprised of leaders from each

business, to transfer best practices around the company. Along

the way, he took on the role as chief information officer for the

company. Gary stayed put, but just about every couple of years, he

expanded the scope of his job, bringing great value to GE while

remaining true to his work-life balance choices.

Gary’s story is an example of thousands like it that take place

every day—a boss pulling out the stops to keep a star performer

hooked and excited. I knew what Gary needed and what the

company needed, and fortunately, with his intellectual curios-

ity, commitment, and energy, we found a solution where every-

one won.

So every time you think about your work-life balance issue,

remember what your boss is thinking about—and that’s winning.

— 322 —

WORK-LIFE BALANCE

Your needs may get heard—and even successfully resolved—but

not if the boss’s needs aren’t met as well.

2. Most bosses are perfectly willing to accommodate

work-life balance challenges if you have earned it with

performance.The key word here is: if.

Admittedly, there are bosses out there who think, “I never got any

kind of special help with my work-life issues, and I’m not going to

give any. Each person has to make it on his own.”

Moreover, there are people who don’t have children who

frankly resent their coworkers who are parents who ask for a

“special pass” because of their family responsibilities. I have heard

these individuals say things like, “They wanted to have children.

Now they want us to make it easy for them!” That perspective is

not particularly charitable, but I can understand where it’s coming

from.

Actually, the reality of the workplace is that there are very few