SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: People Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses how to effectively manage different types of employees, including star performers, sliders, and disruptors, in order to maintain organizational success.
KEYWORDS: employee management, talent retention, organizational culture, performance evaluation, succession planning
---

One morning in the summer of 2001, just as Jeff Immelt was

about to take over as CEO, Larry Johnston, who was CEO of our

appliances business, came to headquarters to tell us he was taking

the job as CEO of Albertsons, the

large West Coast food and drug

chain. Larry was a big presence in

Ideally, the star will be

GE, with a strong track record and

replaced within eight

great reputation. Even though the

announcement of his departure hours. This sends the

knocked the wind out of us, we

message that no single

moved quickly. By four o’clock that

individual is bigger than

afternoon, we appointed Jim

the company.

Campbell, the sales manager in

Appliances, to the job. Albertsons

— 111 —

YOUR COMPANY

got a great CEO, and we never

A slider just shows up at missed a beat. Jim was off and run-

ning from day one.

work and goes through

The only way to be able to re-

the motions.

place a star swiftly is to have a slate

of people ready to do so. That’s

where good evaluation systems

come in, in particular, career development planning. That process

can surface one or two in-house candidates to replace any star

who departs.

Just don’t wait until the star leaves to start the replacement

process. By then it’s too late to make the point.

A third complicated relationship is with what I call

sliders. These are employees who were once good performers

but have hit a wall for some reason or another, ranging from a

midlife crisis to a job-related disappointment.

A slider, while generally well liked, now just shows up at work

and goes through the motions. In most cases, no one knows what

to do about it. In fact, the situation is usually so awkward, people

look away.

You can’t. Sliders need to be reenergized, either with new

jobs or training. Otherwise, they fossilize in their jobs, and they

often grow bitter, slowly but surely infecting their groups with

disaffection. Often, managers take a long time to let these individ-

uals go because their previous accomplishments were more than

acceptable. But a company that manages people well quickly

moves to get its sliders back in the game, and if that doesn’t work,

tells them the game is over.

The final relationship that cannot be ignored is with

disrupters. These are the individuals who cause trouble for

sport—inciting opposition to management for a variety of rea-

sons, most of them petty.

— 112 —

PEOPLE MANAGEMENT

Usually these people have good performance—that’s their

cover—and so they are endured or appeased.

A company that manages people well takes disrupters head-on.

First they give them very tough evaluations, naming their bad

behavior and demanding it change. Usually it won’t. Disrupters

are a personality type. If that’s the case, get them out of the way of

people trying to do their jobs. They’re poison.

PRACTICE 5. Fight gravity, and instead of taking

the middle 70 percent for granted, treat them like the

heart and soul of the organization.

As practice 4 would suggest, managers end up spending the vast

majority of their people-management energy on charged rela-

tionships—too often trying to salvage sliders or disrupters. That’s

natural, but it’s a mistake.

Most work in an organization gets done by the people in the

middle 70, those solid performers who don’t quite shine but work

hard and well, and perhaps could shine with enough care and at-

tention. You just can’t allow the middle 70 to toil away in a form

of obscurity, like a well-behaved, mild-mannered middle child in a

family of attention-grabbing prodigies and troublemakers.

Well-managed companies fight that pull. In fact, they make

sure managers spend at least 50 percent of their people time on

their biggest constituency, evaluating and coaching them. Further,

they don’t forget the middle 70 when it comes to rewards, recog-

nition, and training.

One important note. In larger companies, the middle 70 can be

a highly differentiated group. In a way, it has its own top 20, valu-

able middle, and bottom 10 percent. You need to recognize those

performance variations—you can be sure the employees do. In

— 113 —

YOUR COMPANY

fact, a common and damaging dynamic is the departure of the best

performers in the middle 70. Some of these individuals are almost

stars—their performance is that close. But when they get lumped

with the middle 70 and are not managed attentively, they leave in

frustration for a company where they will be more appreciated.

That’s a real loss.

Future stars are very often hard at work—quietly—in the mid-

dle 70. A good company recognizes that and makes it clear that

this ranking is just a snapshot in time. It encourages this group,

using every tool in its people management kit.

The point is: The middle 70 matters a lot. It is the heart and

soul—the central core—of any company.

If you’re going to manage people well, you simply cannot for-

get the majority of them.

PRACTICE 6. Design the org chart to be as flat as

possible, with blindingly clear reporting relationships

and responsibilities.

In 2004, Clayton, Dubilier & Rice purchased Culligan Interna-

tional, the water treatment and supply business with about $700

million in annual sales and about five thousand employees spread

across thirteen countries. One of CD&R’s partners, George

Tamke, the former co-CEO of Emerson Electric, was named

chairman. George was well aware that Culligan had been through

ten owners in the previous fifteen years, but he couldn’t believe

the organizational disarray that hit him when he walked through

the door. George found that many employees simply didn’t know

where they fit in—whom they reported to, who reported to

them, and what results each person was responsible for.

— 114 —

PEOPLE MANAGEMENT

George had had the luxury of studying the business for ninety

days prior to CD&R’s closing the deal, so he had a clear idea of