SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Corporate Social Responsibility
SUMMARY: The text discusses GE's extensive volunteer program and the company's efforts to support communities in various countries, highlighting the benefits for both the volunteers and the recipients.
KEYWORDS: corporate volunteering, community involvement, social impact, business philanthropy, employee engagement
---

There are more than fifty thousand active volunteers among

GE’s employees, involved in four thousand projects a year, from

mentoring in schools around the world to participating in count-

less other programs for the disadvantaged. Because of the efforts

of GE volunteers, there have been amazing community projects

in Hungarian towns, Jakarta slums, and inner-city schools in

Cincinnati. Not only were these projects great for the people who

were helped, they were equally beneficial for the people doing the

helping. Their volunteering in the streets gave their work at the

office more meaning and vitality.

In Slovakia, Chris Navetta showed up in 2002 to manage U.S.

Steel’s newly acquired sixteen-thousand-employee plant in

Kosice, a city with 23 percent unemployment in the impoverished

eastern region of the country. Chris and his team took a real relic

of Communism—a money-losing state-owned enterprise—and

with a $600 million investment, turned it into a highly profitable

operation. While they were doing that, they poured time and

money into Kosice. The list of their contributions is too long to

print here, but it includes building an oncology wing at the local

children’s hospital, remodeling primary school classrooms and

providing them with computers, and refurbishing several orphan-

ages and a facility for the blind.

— 355 —

TYING UP LOOSE ENDS

Consider also the outpouring of support from businesses

around the world after the tragic Christmas tsunami of 2004. In a

matter of days, healthy companies and their people donated

billions of dollars in cash and supplies to help people in ravaged

communities. It was generosity of the highest order.

I’m not talking here about motherhood and apple pie, or trying

to sound like the typical annual report. This is how good business

really works. Winning companies give back and everyone wins.

This question came from the reporter who moderated my Q & A

session at a management conference for about three thousand people

in London:

Do you plan to enter politics?

In a word—never.

It’s not that I don’t appreciate government. We’re all grateful to

the public servants who have made national security and the erad-

ication of terrorism their lifework. On top of that, government

provides other services that are vital to a thriving society—

schools, hospitals, and police, to name just three.

But government, for all the good it does, is filled with all the

problems that business has, but nobody seems to have the latitude

to fix them.

Basically, government is riddled with bureaucracy, waste, and

inefficiency. In a company, you can clean those up, and you have

to. In government, they’re forever.

Why? For one, because it’s difficult to move people up or

out based on merit. Most government agencies have no differen-

tiation to speak of. You can work for forty years, never excel

or make a dent in results, and still get an annual raise. For another,

— 356 —

THE QUESTIONS THAT ALMOST GOT AWAY

you just cannot speak or act candidly in government without get-

ting nailed. It is a world filled with compromise, patronage, and

quid pro quo.

Yes, all these behaviors exist in business, but managers can rally

against them on their own,or join a company that does so as a mat-

ter of course.

Finally, governments can afford to be bureaucratic because they

don’t compete. During the last election season, the governor of

Indiana created a big hoopla around the fact that he was going to

withdraw the state from an outsourcing project that one of its

departments had started in India. There was much cheering him

on as a role model of patriotism. It had to make you laugh. It was

easy for the governor to withdraw from India—in the public

sector you don’t have to provide the highest value products or find

the lowest cost solutions in order to create revenue. You can just

keep raising taxes to pay for everything.

So, as important as government is,it’s just not for me.This book

makes the point that it is always better to do something you love.

I’ve taken my own advice on this one.

I’ve received this question everywhere:

How’s your golf game?

Wow, do people love golf! Everywhere I go, perhaps because I

stuck a chapter on golf in my last book, people ask about my hand-

icap and whether it’s improved since I retired.

The answer is, I don’t play anymore.

And, believe it or not, I don’t miss it all that much.

My obsession with golf lasted almost sixty years, from my first

days playing and caddying at age ten until my first back operation

in 2002. I’ve had two more back operations since then, and thank-

— 357 —

TYING UP LOOSE ENDS

fully, my back is better now. But I’m sure not inclined to test that

proposition with a golf swing. If you’ve had back problems, you

probably understand where I’m coming from.

But in the absence of golf, a whole world of new interests has

opened up to me. You can’t believe how much time is available

when you’re not on the golf course all the time! I’ve loved con-

sulting with several companies and their CEOs. I’ve also found

I’m crazy about modern art, and I’m getting to live out my life-

long devotion to the Red Sox by attending as many home games

as I can. I’ve been able to travel around the world with my wife

and four stepchildren and enjoy the sights beyond conference

rooms and factories, and been able to meet the many interesting

people whose questions grew into this book.

I have always loved new stuff. Looking forward, learning, and

growing have always felt good to me. Golf was wonderful. It gave

me great friends that I’ve enjoyed for decades and always will, and

all the fun of competing.

But when you can’t play, you can’t play—and amazingly, the

world doesn’t even end.

And finally, this question was posed by an audience member at a