SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Mergers and Acquisitions
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of embracing change and maintaining a positive attitude during a merger or acquisition, as it can significantly impact one's career and emotional well-being.
KEYWORDS: merger, acquisition, change management, positive attitude, career success
---

from North Carolina to Boston to accommodate his leadership.

“It remains precisely unclear why Moynihan emerged on top

while colleagues fell,” the Globe said.

It wasn’t unclear to me. All you had to do was look at a quote

— 239 —

YOUR COMPETITION

in the same article from Alvaro de

Resisting a deal, no Molina, Bank of America’s president

of global corporate and investment

matter how scared,

banking.

confused, or angry you

Brian, he said, “was an immediate

are is usually suicidal partner.”

to your career, not to Which brings me to the one

huge pitfall common to people at

mention your emotional

acquired companies: resistance. Re-

well-being.

sisting a deal, no matter how scared,

confused, or angry you are is usually

suicidal for your career, not to men-

tion your emotional well-being.

Now, I don’t know if Brian Moynihan ever felt scared, confused,

or angry about the Fleet–Bank of America merger. And in a way, it

doesn’t matter because he clearly didn’t show any of these emotions.

Instead,he showed exactly what you should show if you want to sur-

vive a merger—enthusiasm, optimism, and thoughtful support.

Why? Because for an acquirer, there is nothing worse than

laying down a boatload of money for a company, then walking

through the front door to be greeted by a bunch of sour faces and

bitter attitudes.

Who needs it?

Yes, some resistance to change is normal. But if you want to

keep your job in a suddenly bigger talent pool, and frankly, if you

want to enjoy work, don’t act like a victim! Get behind the deal,

think of ways to make it work, adopt the biggest, most can-do at-

titude you can muster. Tell yourself the good old days are over—

and the best are yet to come.

I understand that not everyone can get their heads around this

notion, but there is a price to pay if you don’t.

— 240 —

MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

Bill Harrison recalls meeting with a very talented manager

from JPMorgan Chase who was one of the premier “sour faces”

after the merger.

“For Christ’s sake, man, you’re so good, we really want to keep

you,” he told him, “but if you can’t act in a more positive way and

embrace this change, you’re not going to make it.”

The inevitable ending to this story is that the manager was, as

Bill puts it, “like most people—no good at hiding his feelings.” He

left within a few months.

In mergers, managers will always pick the people cheering for

the deal, even if they are not as talented or knowledgeable as the

people pouting. When there are two people to do the same job,

if their abilities are anywhere near each other, the upbeat,

pro-merger candidate wins.

I have an old friend who worked for almost his entire career at

a large insurance company, ending up with the top job in market-

ing, PR, and community relations. This executive was very close

with the company’s CEO, a relationship that afforded him all sorts

of entrée into the executive decision-making process. He was the

CEO’s right-hand man, confessor, and sounding board, even

though his title wouldn’t suggest such impact.

Then, a few years ago, my friend’s company was acquired by

a financial services company halfway across the country, and his

pal the CEO was “promoted” to chairman, with a two-year exit

strategy.

I wasn’t completely surprised when a month later, my friend

called and asked to meet me for a drink, the sooner the

better. When I saw him a few days later, he was completely for-

lorn.

“I am of no value to the company anymore. They kicked my

boss upstairs; he’s out of the game. My new boss is far away at

— 241 —

YOUR COMPETITION

headquarters, and he and I are not clear yet about just who is going

to do what. I hate the situation I’m in.”

To make a long story short, I advised my friend to befriend his

boss and find as many ways as possible to make the merger a

success. If he was as good at his job as he claimed, the new CEO

would notice soon enough. In the meantime, it would be dumb to

get booted for sulking.

My main message was, I suppose, “Swallow your pride, prove

your worth, and start again.”

A year has passed, and my friend has never been happier

professionally. He carved out a new position for himself oversee-

ing the integration of three overlapping businesses, took on the

responsibility of advising the new head of marketing, and finally

found a great, high-impact role working with the organization’s

new advertisers on a branding campaign.

“I don’t know why I took it so hard,” he said recently. “I’m

always telling people that change is good, and then I let change

freak me out. The hardest part was talking myself out of the hole.

In truth, I had to fake it for a while, but one day I finally got over

myself and stopped being a pain in the ass.”

That’s good advice to remember next time you want to bitch

about the deal, your new bosses, and the tragedy of your fate. You

and your bad attitude can be replaced—and will be if you don’t

learn to love the deal like the acquirers do.

■

Mergers mean change.

But change isn’t bad. And mergers, in general, are very good.

They are not only a necessary part of business, they have the

potential to deliver profitable growth and put you in a new and

— 242 —

MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

exciting strategic position at a speed that organic growth just

cannot match.

Yes, mergers and acquisitions have their challenges, and all

kinds of research will tell you that more than half don’t add value.

But nothing says you have to fall victim to that statistic.

Don’t let deal heat get you, and avoid the seven pitfalls—then