SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Work-Life Balance
SUMMARY: This text discusses how work-life balance arrangements are negotiated based on performance and a supportive organizational culture, rather than just following company policies.
KEYWORDS: work-life balance, performance-based flexibility, organizational culture, negotiation, chit system
---

approached by a young guy—we’ll call him Carl—who had been

at the company for about a year with no distinguishing results. He

too wanted to work at home on Fridays. “I want to perfect my

yoga practice,”he explained.

When my friend said no, the conversation got very awkward.

“You’re imposing your values on me,” Carl said. “You’re saying

that mothering has more value than yoga. But I’m never going to

have children. Who are you to say that my yoga is less meaningful

in my life than Cynthia’s children are in hers?”

“Sorry, but that’s the decision I made!” the boss shot back.

Later, when the confrontation hit the office gossip mill and

distracted Carl’s coworkers for a week with minidebates over fair-

ness and values, my friend came to regret the fact that she hadn’t

been more direct in her answer. Carl couldn’t work at home on

Fridays because he hadn’t demonstrated he could do the job at the

office Monday through Thursday!

Despite her own personal circumstances, my friend’s decision

hadn’t been about yoga versus babies. It hadn’t been about values at

all. It had been about results. Carl didn’t have any chits.

What does this mean for you? It means that as you think about

work-life balance, know that to get it in most companies, you have

to earn it. That process will take time.

— 326 —

WORK-LIFE BALANCE

One last thing to know about the chit system. To people just

entering the workforce, it often seems unfair. Why, they wonder,

do you have to wait to get the freedom and flexibility you want?

But more experienced people tend to get it—in fact, many see the

give-and-take of chits as perfectly equitable.

Finally, bosses like it too. For them, it’s a win-win deal.

3. Bosses know that the work-life policies in the com-

pany brochure are mainly for recruiting purposes, and

that real work-life arrangements are negotiated one-

on-one in the context of a supportive culture, not in

the context of “But the company says . . . !”

A company brochure can be a sight to behold, with its glossy

photos and long lists of lifestyle benefits, such as job sharing and

flextime.

But most people know that the last time you look at the com-

pany brochure is the first day at work, when you fill out your

insurance paperwork in the HR office. In fact, most savvy

people realize pretty quickly that most brochure work-life bal-

ance programs are primarily a recruiting tool aimed at new candi-

dates.

Real work-life balance arrangements are negotiated by bosses

and individuals on an as-needed basis, using the performance-for-

flexibility chit system we just talked about.

That chit system requires a special environment.

It requires a supportive organizational culture where bosses are

encouraged to strike creative work-life deals with high perform-

ers, and high performers feel entirely comfortable talking with

their bosses about their work-life challenges.

— 327 —

YOUR CAREER

In such a culture, bosses have the freedom to reward results

with flexibility. They don’t have to clear work-life arrangements

with HR, nor do they feel forced to adhere to formalized work-

life policies that actually might limit their ability to win, rather

than enhance it.

Remember the case of the boss who had the employee who

wanted to work at home Fridays to practice yoga? In the end,

when the news of the incident reached senior management, she

was told to agree to his request. It was company policy to “offer

equal opportunity for flexible working arrangements.” Merit had

nothing to do with it!

It should come as no surprise that this yoga employee didn’t

last another year at the company. With just four days at the office,

his performance continued to deteriorate. And just as damning, he

got branded by managers within the business unit as a “But the

company says ...!”k ind of employee.

You know the type. They bank vacation days. They hand in

slips of paper noting how many half-days or holidays they’ve

worked. They remind bosses and colleagues of company policies

regarding overtime. They are little technocrats who show time

and time again that they are not working for fun or the passion to

win. They’re just logging hours.

No wonder they don’t have

many chits in the bank. By operat-

If you want real work-life

ing outside the culture of one-on-

balance, find a company one negotiated arrangements, these

rule-book types screw themselves

that accommodates it

right out of the “rights” they claim

as part of its everyday

they are owed!

business.

The point here is, don’t get car-

ried away by the work-life policies

— 328 —

WORK-LIFE BALANCE

and programs advertised in virtually every corporate brochure. If

you want real work-life balance, find a company that accommo-

dates it as part of its everyday business.

4. People who publicly struggle with work-life bal-

ance problems or continually turn to the company for

help get pigeonholed as ambivalent, entitled, uncom-

mitted, or incompetent—or all of the above.

In September 2004, the Financial Times published a story about

Vivienne Cox, who at age forty-five was appointed head of the

power, gas, and renewable energy division of BP. The paper noted

that the promotion made Ms. Cox one of the most powerful busi-

nesswomen in the world.

It also noted that she had two small children and that she never

talked about their impact on her ability to work. Vivienne Cox,

the newspaper said, “is part of a generation of high-achieving

women who just want to get on with the job.”

There are, without doubt, tens of thousands of Vivienne

Coxes. And surely in total there are millions of successful working

people, mothers and otherwise, who have full and busy personal

lives—achieved without griping about how hard balance is and

how much help they need from their companies to attain it.

The fact that these people exist makes it very hard, in the real

world, to be a work-life moaner.