SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Growth Strategies
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for business growth, including expanding into new markets, developing new products, and partnering with competitors.
KEYWORDS: business growth, market expansion, new product development, strategic partnerships, cost reduction
---

levers: on-time delivery to existing customers, finding new ones,

— 281 —

YOUR CAREER

and developing new products. But John had bigger ideas. He pro-

posed building a new plant in Europe to produce his key raw

material.

The price tag was well over $100 million. We said, “No way.”

But John couldn’t accept that there wasn’t a solution to his cost

bind. He tried a long-shot approach. Expanding his job’s horizons,

he entered into talks with several of his European competitors in

search of a partner who would bring local sourcing and technol-

ogy expertise to the table in return for GE’s global strength.

After a long year of negotiations, John found what he needed,

a silicones joint venture with the German company Bayer, with

GE holding a majority stake in the new company.

I recently asked him about this experience.

“It was just persistence, I guess,” he said. “I knew we had to

become self-sufficient somehow. If we had just kept doing things

as usual, even if we grew the business by a reasonable amount, we

would have never broken out.”

Today, the European silicones business is No. 2 in the local

market, and with a recent acquisition, its sales are more than $700

million.

As for John, he was promoted in 1998 to CEO of GE Trans-

portation, and in 2003 to CEO of GE’s $8 billion plastics business.

YOUR OWN WORST ENEMY

If exceeding expectations is the most reliable way to get ahead, the

most reliable way to sabotage yourself is to be a thorn in your or-

ganization’s rear end.

Of course, no one sets out to do that. But it happens, and every

time it does, you force your boss to use his political capital in order

to defend you.

— 282 —

GETTING PROMOTED

At this point, probably most peo-

ple are thinking, “Who me—make The most reliable way

my boss use his political capital?

to sabotage yourself

Never.”

is to be a thorn in your

Well, think again.

You can have the greatest results organization’s rear end.

in the world, but if you don’t live

your company’s values and behaviors,

you run the risk of this happening.

Take the case of an extremely smart and capable employee I’ll

call James. We hired James into our business development program

at headquarters. This two-year, up-or-out program was designed

for MBAs who had been with consulting firms for three or four

years and wanted to get off that track and into operations. To test

them, we put them in short, intense field assignments, transferring

GE’s best practices from business to business. In most cases, one of

our businesses would “steal” these MBAs from the program

within a year and place them in meaningful operating positions.

James was about thirty-two when we brought him in from a

top-tier consulting firm where he had worked since graduating

from business school. He was European, articulate, and as I said,

very bright, with excellent experience consulting in several indus-

tries. We figured at least three GE businesses would be fighting

over him within six months.

A year came and went, and no one would touch him. I couldn’t

figure out why until I sat in on his first performance review with

his boss and the HR team. There I learned that James came into

the office at ten or eleven each day and left late, at 8:00 p.m. or so.

Those were plenty of hours to put in, and that kind of schedule

was fine—for an individual contributor. We had people in R & D

who liked to work at night, for instance, and people in sales who

— 283 —

YOUR CAREER

came and went according to the needs of their customers in three

time zones.

James’s hours, however, were not going to make it in a com-

pany where line managers generally showed up at 8:00 a.m. or

earlier, and every meeting and work routine revolved around that.

But James didn’t seem to care about GE’s routines. He had his

own way of doing things.

I saw that dynamic up close when James called my assistant and

asked for an appointment. When we got together, after a few min-

utes of chitchat about his career, the real reason for his visit be-

came clear.

“Would it be OK,” he asked, “if I flew my own plane to my

meetings in the field?”

I told him he was nuts. “Do that only if you want to piss every-

one off,” I said. “Your hours have already gotten you in enough

trouble. That kind of showing off is going to kill you around here.

It’s not our culture.”

“But I’d pay for the gas!”

“This is not about gas!” I said.

Despite James’s disconnect with our values, he did land a job in

operations. Because of his brainpower, energy, and background, I

put him in charge of a relatively

small, troubled business we had

Eventually, he had to

acquired in Europe. Two American

leave the company. In

transplants hadn’t worked out.

the end, there wasn’t Putting James there was a classic

corporate “stuff job,” in that I

a person left with

stuffed him (despite my misgivings)

any desire to spend

down the throat of the business.

political capital on him.

It didn’t work. GE’s European

business culture wasn’t any more

— 284 —

GETTING PROMOTED

amenable to James than its American one, and eventually he had

to leave the company.

In the end, there wasn’t a person left with any desire to spend

political capital on him.

By contrast, take the story of Kevin Sharer, who started in the

same business development program as James.

Before joining GE, Kevin had received a degree in aeronauti-

cal engineering from the U.S. Naval Academy, served a four-year

stint on nuclear attack submarines, and worked for two years at

McKinsey & Company. Without question, he was as smart as James

in terms of IQ.He was also industrious and,like James,ambitious,the