SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Strategy and Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of differentiation in managing people and businesses, and the need for a transparent framework to invest in strong business units or product lines.
KEYWORDS: Differentiation, Business Management, Investment Criteria, GE, Portfolio Management
---

tend to love it or hate it, but a pretty large number are just con-

fused by it. If I could change one thing about my first book, it

would be to add more pages to the discussion of differentiation,

explaining the topic inside and out, and stressing that differentia-

tion cannot—and must not—be implemented quickly. At GE, it

took us about a decade to install the kind of candor and trust that

makes differentiation possible.

But this chapter is not about implementation. It’s about why I

believe in differentiation and why you should too.

— 38 —

DIFFERENTIATION

DIFFERENTIATION DEFINED

One of the main misunderstandings about differentiation is that it

is only about people. That’s to miss half of it. Differentiation is a

way to manage people and businesses.

Basically, differentiation holds that a company has two parts,

software and hardware.

Software is simple—it’s your people.

Hardware depends. If you are a large company, your hardware

is the different businesses in your portfolio. If you are smaller, your

hardware is your product lines.

Let’s look first at differentiation in terms of hardware. It’s pretty

straightforward and a lot less incendiary.

Every company has strong businesses or product lines and

weak ones and some in between. Differentiation requires man-

agers to know which is which and invest accordingly.

To do that, of course, you have to have a clear-cut definition of

“strong.” At GE, “strong” meant a business was No. 1 or No. 2

in its market. If it wasn’t, the managers had to fix it, sell it, or as

a last resort, close it. Other companies have different frameworks

for investment decisions. They put their money and time only

into businesses or product lines that promise double-digit sales

growth, for instance. Or they invest only in businesses or product

lines with a 15 percent (or better) discounted rate of return

(DCRR).

Now, I generally don’t like investment criteria that are financial

in nature, like DCRR, because the numbers can be jiggered so

easily by changing the residual value, or any other number of as-

sumptions, in an investment proposal. But my point is the same:

differentiation among your businesses or product lines requires a

transparent framework that everyone in the company under-

— 39 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

stands. People may not like it, but they know it and they manage

with it.

In fact, differentiation among businesses and product lines is a

powerful management discipline in general. At GE, the No. 1 or

No. 2 framework stopped the decades-long practice of sprinkling

money everywhere. Most GE managers in the old days probably

knew that spreading money all around didn’t make sense, but it’s

so easy to do. There’s always that pressure—managers jockeying

and politicking for their share of the pie. To avoid warfare, you

give everyone a little slice and hope for the best.

Companies also sprinkle money evenly for sentimental or

emotional reasons. GE hung on to a marginally profitable central

air-conditioning business for twenty years because people thought

it was necessary in order to have a full-line major appliance com-

pany. In reality, headquarters hated air-conditioning because its

success was so dependent on the installers. These independent

contractors would put our machines into homes and then drive

off, and GE lost control of the brand. Worse, we had a small share

of the market and just couldn’t make much money on central

air-conditioning. With the No. 1 or No. 2 framework, we had

to sell the business, and when we did—to a company that lived

and breathed air-conditioning very successfully—GE’s former

employees discovered the joy of being loved! Moreover,

management attention was no longer diverted to an under-

performing business, and shareholders had better returns. Every-

body won.

Running your company without differentiation among your

businesses or product lines may have been possible when the

world was less competitive. But with globalization and digitiza-

tion, forget it. Managers at every level have to make hard choices

and live by them.

— 40 —

DIFFERENTIATION

THE PEOPLE PART

Now let’s talk about the more controversial topic, differentiation

among people. It’s a process that requires managers to assess their

employees and separate them into three categories in terms of

performance: top 20 percent, middle 70, and bottom 10. Then—

and this is key—it requires managers to act on that distinction.

I emphasize the word “act” because all managers naturally differ-

entiate—in their heads. But very few make it real.

When people differentiation is real, the top 20 percent of

employees are showered with bonuses, stock options, praise, love,

training, and a variety of rewards to their pocketbooks and souls.

There can be no mistaking the stars at a company that differenti-

ates. They are the best and are treated that way.

The middle 70 percent are managed differently.

This group of people is enormously valuable to any company;

you simply cannot function without their skills, energy, and com-

mitment. After all, they are the majority of your employees. And

that’s the major challenge, and risk, in 20-70-10—keeping the

middle 70 engaged and motivated.

That’s why so much of managing the middle 70 is about train-

ing, positive feedback, and thoughtful goal setting. If individuals in

this group have particular promise, they should be moved around

among businesses and functions to increase their experience and

knowledge and to test their leadership skills.

To be clear, managing the middle 70 is not about keeping peo-

ple out of the bottom 10. It is not about saving poor performers.

That would be a bad investment decision. Rather, differentiation

is about managers looking at the middle 70, identifying people

with potential to move up, and cultivating them. But everyone in

— 41 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

the middle 70 needs to be motivated and made to feel as if they

truly belong. You do not want to lose the vast majority of your

middle 70—you want to improve them.

As for the bottom 10 percent in differentiation, there is no sugar-