SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Talent Management
SUMMARY: Matching people with the right jobs based on the business's position on the commodity continuum is a key part of strategy.
KEYWORDS: talent management, organizational structure, commodities, differentiation
---

software packages for turbine upgrades.

The services strategy was under way. In 2005, Ric’s operating

profit of close to $2.5 billion will be about equal to revenues when

he took over in 1997.

Getting strategy right also means matching people with jobs—

a match that often depends on where a business is on the com-

modity continuum.

It goes without saying that you cannot pigeonhole. Good peo-

ple are too multifaceted. That said, I would still make the case that

due to their skills and personalities, some people work more effec-

tively in commodities and others are better in highly differentiated

products or services.

Let’s look at the motors business as an example. It’s about as

commoditized as you’ll ever find. Several good companies make

the product, and all have good service, quality, and cost.

The right people for this business are hard driving, meticulous,

and detail oriented. They are not dreamers, they’re hand-to-hand

combat fighters.

Lloyd Trotter is the perfect example. Lloyd joined GE in 1970

as a field service engineer in its high-intensity quartz lighting

department, and for thirty years after that, his career was factories,

factories, and more factories. He was a foreman, a production

manager, and plant supervisor in Lighting, Appliances, and

virtually every electrical distribution and control (ED&C) busi-

ness we had. By the time Lloyd was made CEO of ED&C in 1992,

he could tell you from the parking lot whether or not a factory

was humming. Two steps closer and he could tell you what it

could do better.

Of course, Lloyd liked thinking about strategy, but he liked im-

plementing it more. He was in his element with people who

sweated the nitty-gritty details like he did, talking about ways to

— 182 —

STRATEGY

squeeze efficiencies out of every

process. He was a master of disci- Strategy also means

pline. And that’s what made him ex-

matching people with

actly the right kind of leader to

jobs—a match that often

drive our commodities businesses.

At the other end of the spec- depends on where a

trum, it’s generally a different kind business is on the

of person who thrives. Not better or

commodity continuum.

worse, just different.

Take jet engines. Each engine is a

unique, high-tech engineering miracle that requires about a

billion dollars of investment to develop. The product life cycle is

measured in years. And the customers are tough—the airlines

themselves, perennially strapped for money, and the powerful

airframers, Boeing and Airbus.

For many years, the jet engine business had its own distinct

culture of romance. The people who gravitated toward it weren’t

your usual business types—they were in love with the very idea of

flying and the wonder of airplanes.

Brian Rowe was perfect for such an environment.

Brian started his career as an apprentice with DeHavilland En-

gines in England before joining GE as a factory-floor engineer in

1957. After stints in virtually every possible jet engine design proj-

ect, he was named head of GE’s aircraft engine business in 1979.

Brian was a huge, gregarious guy—outspoken, opinionated,

and visionary. He loved airplanes so much he would have worn

goggles and a scarf to work if he could have.

Unlike Lloyd, Brian pretty much hated the nuts and bolts of

management, and discussions of operating margins and cash flow

bored him. But he sure did have the guts and the vision to place

the big bets, laying a billion dollars on a single investment that

would take years to pay off. Likewise, Brian’s personality made

— 183 —

YOUR COMPETITION

him a great salesman with customers, who shared his enthusiasm

for every new technological advance.

Lloyd and Brian were both a case of perfect fit—right for their

jobs, right for the business situation, right for the strategy. You

won’t always get that lucky, and strategy can get implemented

without an ideal match.

But you’re much better off with one.

BEST PRACTICES AND BEYOND

I’ve heard it said that best practices aren’t a sustainable competitive

advantage because they are so easy to copy. That’s nonsense.

It is true that, once a best practice is out there, everybody can

imitate it, but companies that win do two things: they imitate and

improve.

Admittedly, imitating is hard enough. I remember a software

company executive at one Q & A session lamenting, “My people

don’t copy very well. They just don’t want to—they like the way

they do it.”This reluctance to imitate is a common phenomenon.

Maybe it’s just human nature.

But to make your strategy succeed, you need to fix that mind-

set—and go a lot further.

In fact, the third step of strategy is all about finding best prac-

tices, adapting them, and continually improving them. When you do

that right, it’s nothing short of innovation. New product and

service ideas, new processes, and opportunities for growth start to

pop out everywhere and actually become the norm.

Along with getting the right people in place, best practices are

all part of implementing the hell out of your big aha, and to my

mind, it’s the most fun.

It’s fun because companies that make best practices a priority are

thriving, thirsting, learning organizations. They believe that every-

— 184 —

STRATEGY

one should always be searching for a better way. These kinds of com-

panies are filled with energy and curiosity and a spirit of can-do.

Don’t tell me that’s not a competitive advantage!

Back in the old days—after World War II and before global

competition—most industrial companies, GE included, were

stuck in a not-invented-here (NIH) mind-set. The focus was on

their own inventors, with plaques and bonuses reserved for the

people who came up with and implemented original ideas.

Once the ’80s arrived, we had no choice but to radically

broaden the NIH mind-set, and we did so by celebrating people

who not only invented things, but found great ideas anywhere and

shared them with everyone in the company. We came to call this