SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Leadership and Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the different types of leaders based on their performance and values, and how organizations should handle problematic leaders who deliver good results despite their poor behavior.
KEYWORDS: leadership types, performance-values matrix, problematic managers, organizational inertia, employee turnover
---

liver strong results and have a can-do approach until relief arrives.

You are in a different boat if your bad boss is not going any-

where anytime soon.

More than a decade ago, I drew the chart below to categorize

types of leaders, and to help me talk about who should stay and

who should leave.

The chart split leaders according to their results—good or

bad—and how well they lived GE’s values, such as candor, voice,

dignity, and boundarylessness.

TYPE 1: TYPE 2:

Good values/ Bad values/

Good performance Bad performance

TYPE 3: TYPE 4:

Good values/ Bad values/

Bad performance Good performance

— 305 —

YOUR CAREER

Type 1 bosses, in the top left corner, are the people you want to

reward and promote and hold up as examples to the rest of the

company. Type 2 bosses, in the upper right corner, have to go, the

sooner the better, and usually do.

Type 3 bosses, in the bottom left corner, really believe in the

company’s values and practice them in earnest, but just can’t get

the results. Those individuals should be coached and mentored,

and given another chance or two in other parts of the company.

Most bad bosses are in the lower right corner—Type 4—and

they are the most difficult to deal with. They often get to hang

around for a long time, despite their awful behavior, because of

their good results.

Most good companies usually know about these people and

eventually move them out.

But every company, even the good ones, keeps some managers

in this quadrant for longer than they should. It’s such a dilemma

for bosses at every level. They hear the grumbling down below,

but they see the great numbers right in front of them.

Which leads to a kind of organizational inertia.

Take the case of a man I know of whom I’ll call Lee, who ran a

thirty-person division of an international communications com-

pany. Formerly a successful writer himself, Lee created a competi-

tive, almost frantic, environment in the office, with the staff

churning out more copy than divisions twice the size. At the same

time, he held the team to extremely high standards of creativity, a

major plus in the eyes of headquarters.

But Lee had a mean streak a mile wide. His humor could be

cruel, and he particularly let loose on young, inexperienced

employees. He also reveled in his intensely adversarial relationship

with the division’s unionized employees, which poisoned the

atmosphere for everyone.

— 306 —

HARD SPOTS

Lee held his staff in a kind of terrorized thrall. Many people

liked the prestige of working in his high-performing division, but

they hated his day-to-day nastiness. Top performers often stayed

for only a year or less, but Lee was protected by the industry’s laws

of supply and demand. There was always another young, ambi-

tious writer or artist ready to sign up.

And so, despite the constant turnover, the organization’s top

management let Lee stay and stay—until he suffered a heart attack.

After he was gone, one of his former employees said, “It took an

act of God to get rid of him.”

Usually, a bad boss with great numbers doesn’t have to die for

senior management to replace him, but it can take a cataclysmic

event to provoke action.

Take “Karen,” a senior-level boss at a money management

firm. Karen managed fifteen fund managers and their teams—

about two hundred people combined. The company was

known for its ruthless, hard-driving culture, and Karen epito-

mized it. She worked eighteen-hour days. She publicly de-

nounced fund managers who underperformed, occasionally

reducing people to tears in meetings, and routinely belittled the

support staff, snidely referring to them as “the Danielle Steel fan

club,” since many were middle-aged women who read popular

novels during their lunch breaks. When Karen’s bosses were

around, however, her persona became thoughtful and caring,

earning her the nickname of Sybil, after a woman with multiple

personality disorder who was the subject of a best-selling book.

For more than a decade, Karen’s money managers posted

impressive results, significantly outperforming comparable funds.

But when the Internet bubble burst, the cost of her management

approach began to show. Fund managers were heavily invested in

high-growth stocks to make their numbers and avoid Karen’s

— 307 —

YOUR CAREER

ire—in fact,their biggest holdings were in Enron,WorldCom,and

Tyco.

When Karen was fired, senior managers made a big show of

denouncing her management style. Many of her people shook

their heads in amazement—it had been in evidence for years, but

it took a disaster to make management confront it.

You may not work at a company that lets a bad boss hang

around until a mess erupts. But it’s possible great numbers will

keep your bad boss around indefinitely.

If you feel that’s the case, your next question should be:

What will happen to me if I deliver results and endure

my bad boss? If you think that your organization, and in partic-

ular your boss’s boss or someone in HR, understands your bind

and sympathizes, you should feel pretty confident that eventually

you will be moved up or sideways as a reward for surviving. While

you’re waiting, hang in there and give the job your all.

I was fortunate to have many great bosses during my career.

They encouraged me, protected me, built my self-confidence, and

gave me challenges that stretched my abilities. Reuben Gutoff, my

boss for more than a decade when I was starting out, did all these.

He kept the mammoth bureaucracy of GE off my back while I

learned real-time how to build a business from scratch. I was able

to travel the world in my twenties, setting up joint ventures and

making small acquisitions.

It took seventeen years for me to bump into a bad boss. It

wasn’t that Dave Dance, a vice-

chairman, was actually bad, it was just

that I was in the running for the CEO

What an awful feeling