SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Crisis Management
SUMMARY: After a crisis, companies often go to extremes to prevent similar mistakes, but proactive measures like strong controls, processes, and a culture of integrity can help avoid future crises.
KEYWORDS: crisis management, internal controls, corporate culture, integrity, crisis prevention
---

dered what would become of the company if its troubles passed.

Having touched the stove once, would it do so again, or would its

financial accounting be more tightly controlled than ever before?

I volunteered that Ahold might make other mistakes in the

future, but it was highly unlikely to make a similar accounting

error for a long, long time.

Companies typically go to extremes after a crisis. They throw

up fortresses of rules and procedures to fight the enemy that got in

once. Or to use the Dutch journalist’s metaphor, they build a kind

of immunity to the sickness that felled them—the way a child

cannot get chicken pox twice.

So, there is a sliver of silver lining to crisis management in that

you rarely have to live through the same disaster twice.

That said, you can be proactive in preventing some crises.

There are three main ways, and most companies have the first

two pretty much nailed.

The first is tight controls—disciplined financial and account-

ing systems with tough internal and external auditing processes.

— 150 —

CRISIS MANAGEMENT

An organization’s line managers

should be required to review and act There is a silver lining

on every audit’s findings.

to crisis management in

The second way to try to prevent

that you rarely have to

crises is with good internal processes,

such as rigorous hiring procedures, live through the same

candid performance reviews, and disaster twice.

comprehensive training programs

that make the company’s policies

nothing short of crystal clear. When it comes to acceptable behav-

iors, rules, and regulations, you simply cannot train too much.

The third way is less common and certainly less of a layup—

a culture of integrity, meaning a culture of honesty, transparency,

fairness, and strict adherence to rules and regulations. In such

cultures, there can be no head fakes or winks. People who break

the rules do not leave the company for “personal reasons” or to

“spend more time with their families.” They are hanged—

publicly—and the reasons are made painfully clear to everyone.

Perhaps the lawyers will warn you against saying too much. But

if you’ve got the facts right, you should be comfortable laying out

who broke the rules and how. There are enormous organizational

benefits from making examples of people who have violated your

policies.

Maybe public vilifications and punishments sound harsh. But

they are the best way to increase the chances that when someone

in your organization lights a match—that is, commits an integrity

transgression—at least a couple of onlookers will immediately

shout, “Fire!”

Prevention is by no means a perfect science, but it’s your first

line of defense against a crisis. Don’t rely on hard experience to

build your immunity—unless you have to.

— 151 —

YOUR COMPANY

THE ANATOMY OF A CRISIS

Before we talk about each assumption, let’s take a short look at

how crises tend to unfold—and roll—to their conclusions.

Most of the time, crises blindside you. They begin with some-

one stopping you in the cafeteria and asking a perplexing “Did

you hear?” kind of question, or with an e-mail or letter about a

possible “irregularity,” or with a phone call you would never ex-

pect in a million years.

The last of those is what happened in 1985, when the general

counsel of GE phoned to say there was an investigation of time

card irregularities going on in our Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, fac-

tory that made missile cones for the government.

I had never worked in a business where employees apportioned

their time by project, let alone filled out a job time card myself. All

I knew was that the people in our aerospace business had nothing

to gain from jiggering this process, since the engineers involved

were all paid on salary only. My initial reaction was a totally unruf-

fled “Uh-hunh, keep me posted.”

He did, and before I knew it, the time card situation had

erupted into a firestorm that took a lot of people’s time and focus

during my first couple of years as CEO.

Now, sometimes crises explode with a single event, like the

Exxon Valdez breaking up off the coast of Alaska, dumping mil-

lions of gallons of crude oil, or when Johnson & Johnson suddenly

discovered that someone was tampering with bottles of Tylenol.

But most crises don’t detonate like bombs—they emerge in fits

and starts. I don’t know the details of the Merck situation with

Vioxx, but I would bet that it actually started a few years ago with

a couple of seemingly random incidents of heart problems in peo-

ple taking the drug. Those reports might have led to a vague

— 152 —

CRISIS MANAGEMENT

suspicion by some scientists that Vioxx was involved, and eventually

a larger study was undertaken. From there, the situation probably

grew into the full-blown recall that took place in the fall of 2004.

Most often, that’s how crises go—they seep out and roll toward

their solutions. Like snowballs down a mountain, they bounce and

zigzag and pick up weight and speed. You can never be entirely

sure where their paths will end.

You can be sure, however, that they will end. The trip to the

bottom of the mountain will probably be unpleasant, but eventu-

ally it’s over and normal life resumes.

That is, until another crisis emerges.

PLAN OF ACTION

And now for the five assumptions to keep in mind when a crisis

happens.

Assumption 1: The problem is worse than it appears.

No matter how hard you might wish and pray, very few crises start

small and stay that way. The vast majority are bigger in scope than

you could ever imagine with that first phone call—and they will

last longer and get more ugly. More people than you thought will

be involved, more lawyers than you’ve ever seen will poke their

noses in, and more terrible things will be said and published than

your worst nightmare.