SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: New Business Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses the common mistakes companies make when launching new ventures, and provides guidelines for making organic growth a winning proposition.
KEYWORDS: new ventures, resource allocation, organizational culture, risk-taking, business development
---

new technology. Nor do many have the urge to give new ven-

tures, at home or abroad, a lot of leeway.

— 205 —

YOUR COMPETITION

But to give any new venture a fighting chance to succeed, you

do have to set it free (somewhat). And you do need to spend more

money on it and cheer louder and longer for it than may feel

comfortable.

Managing a $50,000 new product line in its first year is harder

than managing a $500 million business in its twentieth year. And

going global is just as challenging. New businesses and new global

ventures alike have few customers or routines. Neither has a handy

road map to profitability. That’s why they need special treatment.

Too often they don’t get it.

Over the years, I saw countless new businesses launched within

GE and many expand globally. Recently, I have been involved

with several companies in their quests to grow, and in Q & A

sessions, I’ve heard people describe their difficulties in starting

new ventures.

It seems there are three common mistakes companies make in

launching something.

First, they don’t flood start-up ventures with adequate

resources, especially on the people front.

Second, they make too little

fanfare about the promise and

Companies have a habit importance of the new venture. In

fact, instead of cheering about the

of sending expendable

potential of the new venture, they

bodies to run new

tend to hide it under a bushel.

ventures. It’s nuts. For a

Third, they limit the new venture’s

new business to succeed, autonomy.

All of these mistakes are com-

it has to have the best

pletely understandable. Starting a new

people in charge, not the

venture, be it a new voice-over-IP

most available.

device or a call center in India, means

making a bet. Most people instinc-

— 206 —

ORGANIC GROWTH

tively hedge their bets, even as they place them. The irony is that

such hedging can doom a new venture to failure. When launching

something new, you have to go for it—“playing not to lose” can

never be an option.

Here are three guidelines for making organic growth a win-

ning proposition. Not surprisingly, they are antidotes to the

mistakes just listed above.

GUIDELINE ONE: Spend plenty up front, and put

the best, hungriest, and most passionate people in

leadership roles.

Companies tend to size their investments in new ventures accord-

ing to the size of the venture’s revenues or profits starting out.

That’s shortsighted, to be polite about it. Investments in R & D

and marketing should be sized as if the venture is going to be a big

winner. And people selection should be made with the same

mind-set.

Speaking of people, companies have a habit of sending

expendable bodies to run new ventures: The old manufacturing

guy whose children have grown and is looking for added adven-

ture in the two years before retirement is sent to a foreign location

to start up a new plant. An OK but unexciting manager who has

been quietly running another business is given a new product to

launch.

It’s nuts. For a new business to succeed, it has to have the best

people in charge, not the most available.

In fact, leaders of new ventures have to have some of the

“garage entrepreneur” in them. They need to have all four Es and

plenty of P.

— 207 —

YOUR COMPETITION

One thing is for sure: new businesses with limited resources

and good-enough people stay small.

I can think of two cases when we almost killed new ventures

within GE by underspending on resources and people.

PET is a cancer-detecting imaging technology that was selling

about $10 million in equipment in 1990 from within the huge

medical systems business.

And in 1992, we had a $50 million business making small jet

engines. It was practically invisible compared to the multibillion-

dollar business we had in big commercial engines.

Neither PET nor Small Jet Engines got much in terms of time,

attention, or investment from their divisions or headquarters, and

they languished. Luckily for Small Jet Engines, it had a VP named

Dennis Williams, who believed in the business and somehow

managed to keep it alive. But PET came into our gun sights only

when we tried to sell it—and no one would buy.

Market conditions eventually brought us to our senses, and

only then did we begin to invest heavily in both businesses. Today,

they are doing well. PET is a $400 million business. Small Jet En-

gines has gotten an enormous boost from the growth in com-

muter airlines. Its sales are about $1.4 billion, and it is the

fastest-growing part of GE’s commercial engine business.

We got resource allocation a lot closer to right with China.

Back in the early ’90s, Asia for GE was mainly about Japan,

where we had revenues of about $2 billion. But we knew that Asia

was a lot more than Japan and that we had to get into China.

So we took one of our best leaders and put him in charge. It

was Jim McNerney, whom I mentioned in the previous chapter

on budgeting.

At the time, Jim was the CEO of GE’s $4 billion industrial sys-

tems business in Plainville, Connecticut. He was, in every way, a

big hitter. He had twenty-five thousand people reporting to him

— 208 —

ORGANIC GROWTH

in one of our mainstay businesses, a comfortable office, and a well-

trained, hand-picked staff. Most people in the company believed

that Jim had a very promising future with GE and that his next

step would be vice-chairman, at the very least.

Instead, we put him in an office in Hong Kong with an assis-

tant and a few employees.

The impact was immediate. Jim was like the Pied Piper. As

soon as headquarters raised the bar and sent someone to China

who was widely acknowledged to be a star, all of our businesses

started sending their best people too.