SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Performance and Attitude
SUMMARY: The text discusses how employees often overrate their own performance and have a negative attitude towards their boss, which can lead to problems in the workplace.
KEYWORDS: employee performance, self-assessment, boss-employee relationship, negative attitude, workplace communication
---

need. If your boss is being negative to you—and mainly you—you

can feel pretty confident that he has his version of events, and his

version concerns your attitude or performance.

You’ve got to find out what’s going on.

Start by asking yourself that

question, but know that self-

assessment is difficult, to put it

Generally speaking,

mildly. Even with a huge amount of

bosses are not awful to

maturity and a cast-iron stomach, it

people whom they like, is hard to see yourself as others do.

I know of an HR executive at a

respect, and need.

training center in the South who

Think hard about

spent ten years administering 360-

your performance.

degree feedback programs and then

delivering the conclusions to the

— 302 —

HARD SPOTS

individual being evaluated. “Seven out of ten people are com-

pletely stunned by what they hear,”she said. “When they get their

feedback, they think I’ve mixed up the forms. They are convinced

their colleagues must be talking about somebody else.”

The problem, the HR executive said, is that people generally

overrate their performance on the job and their popularity with

the team—most often by a factor of two or more.

Know that, then, as you conduct what is an admittedly difficult

“mirror test.” Think hard about your performance, and press

yourself for the ways you may have fallen short. Think about why

your colleagues might not consider you a team player. In a state of

forced self-loathing, gauge your personal productivity, your face

time in the office, your contribution to sales and earnings. Maybe

you open a lot of deals but never close them. Maybe you close a lot

of deals but boast too much. Maybe people weren’t really “OK

with it” when you blew a big account a few months back.

Finally, face into your attitude toward authority, because it just

might be that the source of your problem with your boss is that

you are, at your core, a boss hater.

Boss haters are a real breed. It doesn’t make any difference who

these people work for, they go into any authority relationship

with barely repressed cynicism. Who knows why—upbringing,

experiences at work or home, political bent. It doesn’t really mat-

ter. Boss haters usually exude constant low-level negativity toward

“the system,” and when they do, their bosses feel it, and they

return the favor.

I’ll never forget a group of boss haters we had at GE headquar-

ters in Fairfield, Connecticut—a half-dozen or so guys who ate

lunch together in the cafeteria every day. They labeled themselves

“The Table of Lost Dreams.” Each of these employees was very

talented. One had a real knack for turning just the right phrase. He

had a background in journalism and worked in PR. Fortunately,

— 303 —

YOUR CAREER

the media found his cynicism appealing. Another was a labor-

relations specialist who had a real affinity for the unions. His natu-

ral sympathies made him enormously effective in frontline

negotiations.

All of the guys at the Table of Lost Dreams were very good at

their jobs, and none of them managed anyone, so their defiance of

conditions at the company was pretty much left alone. I wrote

them off as harmless but effective curmudgeons who would have

hated any work situation.

But tolerance is not usually what happens in these cases. Most

of the time, leaders get sick of the undercurrent of whining and

the energy-sapping effects of boss haters and manage them out—

by showing them just what a bad boss really looks like.

Maybe this all sounds very unfamiliar to you—you’re basically

comfortable with authority, and the rest of your self-examination

has you coming up empty-handed too. Now what?

It’s time to find out what your boss is thinking.

Any kind of confrontation, however, is incredibly risky. Your

boss may be waiting for just such a moment to dump you.In fact,he

may have been hoping his negative vibes would eventually inch you

into his office with the question, “So what am I doing wrong?” so

that he can answer, “Too much for this to go on any longer.”

Still, you have to talk. There is no way around it. Just remem-

ber, before you go into that meeting, be prepared and have options

in the event that you come out of it unemployed.

Then, go do it. Don’t be defensive. Remember, your goal is to

uncover something your boss has not been able to explicitly tell

you for whatever reason. Maybe he’s conflict averse or he’s just

been too busy. Regardless, your objective is to extract from him

the problem he has with your attitude or performance.

If you’re lucky, your boss will come clean about your short-

comings, and together, you can work on a plan to correct them

— 304 —

HARD SPOTS

and get your performance or attitude back on track. Ideally, as you

give it your all to improve, his attitude toward you will as well.

Ironically, you are less lucky if you find out that your bad boss

is satisfied with your performance. If that’s the case, he is being

awful simply because he doesn’t particularly like you.

Which puts you in the same position as the people who work

for bad bosses who act the same way . . . just because that’s the

way they are.

For all of you, the next question is:

What’s the endgame for my boss? Sometimes it’s obvious

that a bad boss is on the way out. His own bosses have signaled as

much to the organization; or he himself makes it clear he can’t

wait to move on. In either case, survival is just a waiting game. De-

liver strong results and have a can-do approach until relief arrives.

You are in a different boat if your bad boss is not going any-

where anytime soon.

More than a decade ago, I drew the chart below to categorize