SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Strategy and Success
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of winning in business, as it benefits people, the economy, and society, as long as it is achieved through fair and ethical means.
KEYWORDS: winning, business success, economic growth, ethical competition
---

dreams—without making any enemies. There have been ques-

tions about macroeconomic trends, emerging industries, and

currency fluctuations.

There have been literally thousands of questions. But most of

them come down to this:

What does it take to win?

And that is what this book is about—winning. Probably no

other topic could have made me want to write again!

Because I think winning is great. Not good—great.

Winning in business is great be-

cause when companies win, people

thrive and grow. There are more

I have been asked

jobs and more opportunities every-

literally thousands of

where and for everyone. People feel

upbeat about the future; they have questions. But most

the resources to send their kids to

of them come down

college, get better health care, buy

to this: What does it

vacation homes, and secure a com-

take to win?

fortable retirement. And winning

affords them the opportunity to

— 3 —

INTRODUCTION

give back to society in hugely im-

I think winning is portant ways beyond just paying

more taxes—they can donate time

great. Not good—

and money to charities and mentor

great. Because when

in inner-city schools, to name just

companies win, people two. Winning lifts everyone it

thrive and grow. There touches—it just makes the world a

better place.

are more jobs and more

When companies are losing, on

opportunities.

the other hand, everyone takes a hit.

People feel scared. They have less fi-

nancial security and limited time or

money to do anything for anyone else. All they do is worry and

upset their families, and in the meantime, if they’re out of work,

they pay little, if any, taxes.

Let’s talk about taxes for a minute. In fact, let’s talk about gov-

ernment in general.

Obviously, government is a vital part of society. First and fore-

most, it does nothing less than protect us all from the insidious and

persistent challenges to national security that are with us now and

for the foreseeable future. But government provides much more:

the justice system, education, police and fire protection, highways

and ports, welfare and hospitals. The list could go on and on.

But even with the virtues of government, it is critical to re-

member that all of its services come from some form of tax rev-

enue. Government makes no money of its own. And in that way,

government is the support for the engine of the economy, it is not

the engine itself.

Winning companies and the people who work for them are

the engine of a healthy economy, and in providing the revenues

for government, they are the foundation of a free and democratic

society.

— 4 —

INTRODUCTION

That’s why winning is great.

Now, it goes without saying that you have to win the right

way—cleanly and by the rules. That’s a given. Companies and

people that don’t compete fairly don’t deserve to win, and thanks

to well-honed internal company processes and government regu-

latory agencies, the bad guys are usually found and kicked out of

the game.

But companies and people in business that are honest—and

that’s the vast, vast majority—must find the way to win.

This book offers a road map.

It is not, incidentally, a road map just for senior level managers

and CEOs. If this book helps them, terrific. I hope it does. But this

book is also very much for people on the front lines: business

owners, middle managers, people running factories, line workers,

college graduates looking at their first jobs, MBAs considering

new careers, and entrepreneurs. My main goal with this book is to

help the people with ambition in their eyes and passion running

through their veins, wherever they are in an organization.

You will meet a lot of people in this book. Some may remind

you of yourself, some may just seem very familiar:

There’s the CEO who presents the company with a list of

noble values—say, quality, customer service, and respect—but

never really explains what it means to live them. There’s the mid-

dle manager who fumes during a meeting with another division

of his company, knowing that his coworkers could do so much

more—if they just stopped patting themselves on the back for a

minute. There is the employee who has been underperforming

for years but is just so friendly and nice—and clueless—you can’t

bring yourself to let her go. There is the colleague you can’t look

in the eye because he is a “Dead Man Walking,” slowly and

painfully being managed out the door. There are the employees

who eat lunch every day at what they have dubbed “The Table

— 5 —

INTRODUCTION

of Lost Dreams,” making a show

Have a positive attitude of their resentment of authority.

There’s the engineer who spent

and spread it around,

fifteen years building a great career,

never let yourself be a

only to throw it in one day when she

victim, and for goodness’ realized that she had juggled life and

sake—have fun. work to make everyone happy—but

herself.

You’ll also meet a lot of people

whose stories are examples of innovation, insight, and grit.

There’s David Novak, the energetic young CEO of Yum!

Brands, who has turned every one of Yum!’s more than thirty-

three thousand restaurant chain outlets into a laboratory of new

ideas and the entire organization into a learning machine. There’s

Denis Nayden, the consummate change agent, who never settles

for good enough and has intensity to burn. There’s Jimmy Dunne,

who rebuilt his company out of the ashes of the World Trade

Center, using love, hope, and an attitude that anything is possible.

There’s Susan Peters, a working mother and the No. 2 HR execu-

tive at GE, who could write a book herself on successfully navi-

gating the hills and valleys of work-life balance. There is Chris

Navetta, the CEO of U.S. Steel Kosice, who helped transform a

struggling city in Slovakia while turning a former state-owned

steel mill into a flourishing, profitable enterprise. There’s Kenneth