SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Merger Integration
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of merging companies, highlighting the importance of establishing leadership, assessing cultural fit, and avoiding a chaotic integration process.
KEYWORDS: Merger Integration, Organizational Culture, Leadership Transition, Strategic Fit, Merger Challenges
---

And so the companies tried to execute their MOE. What a

mess! For two torturous years, the new company had Airbus

A318s shuttling hordes of people between Detroit and Stuttgart a

couple of times a week in an attempt to settle on mutually satis-

factory operating processes, everything from the new company’s

culture to its financial systems, manufacturing sites, and leadership

team. In the meantime, the “merged” organization bumped along

in chaos while managers awaited direction and shareholders

awaited the realization of all those promised global opportunities,

synergies, and cost savings.

— 223 —

YOUR COMPETITION

The ending of the story, of course, came in 2002, when news-

papers reported what many people had long suspected—that the

so-called merger of equals was, in fact, a pure and simple takeover.

With the reality of the situation finally out there, Daimler could

start running the show as it had intended all along. It installed one

management system, one culture, and one strategy, and the

company’s performance pulled out of its post-“merger of equals”

dive.

The point of this story is not to pile on DaimlerChrysler—

that’s been done enough in the past few years. It is to illustrate the

virtual impossibility of two companies with two leaders blending

seamlessly into one organization with double of everything and

everyone.

Forget it. People at equal companies are probably less well

equipped than anyone to merge. They may claim, during deal

heat, to be entering into a perfect and equivalent union, but when

the integration rolls around, who is taking charge must be estab-

lished quickly. Someone has to lead and someone has to follow, or

both companies will end up standing still.

The second pitfall is focusing so intently on strategic

fit that you fail to assess cultural fit, which is just as

important to a merger’s success, if not more so.

Once again, deal heat is behind a mistake that pervades many

mergers, a thoughtful predeal analysis of cultural fit.

Now, most companies have a relatively straightforward time

evaluating strategic fit. Most managers (and their consultants or

bankers) have the tools and experience to assess whether two

companies fill meaningful gaps for each other in terms of geogra-

— 224 —

MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

phy, products, customers, or technologies (or all of these), and by

combining, create a company that, even with some inevitable

overlap, is stronger and more competitive.

But cultural fit is trickier. Even with a cool head, the compati-

bility of two sets of value systems is a hard call. That’s because lots

of companies claim they have the same DNA—they believe in

customer service, analytical decision making, learning, and trans-

parency. They value quality and integrity, etcetera, etcetera. Their

cultures are high performance, results driven, family friendly, and

the like.

In reality, of course, companies have unique and often very

different ways of doing business. But in deal heat, people end up

assessing that every company is compatible. Cultural fit is

declared, and the merger marches ahead.

That was clearly the case when GE bought Kidder Peabody,

a disaster I mention in the chapter on crisis management and

wrote about extensively in my last book. But just to briefly sum-

marize here: a company with GE’s core values of boundaryless-

ness, teamwork, and candor could not merge with an investment

bank with three values of its own: my bonus, my bonus, and my

bonus.

For me, the lack of cultural fit was never more apparent than

the day that the full magnitude of our problem—for lack of a

better euphemism—was really hitting the fan. It was a Sunday

afternoon in April 1994, and a team of GE and Kidder Peabody

executives had been working around the clock since Friday

evening to figure out why we had a $300 million shortfall in

reported earnings. It was already pretty clear that a Kidder trader

named Joe Jett had posted phantom trades, but what we needed to

understand was why and how this behavior had slipped through

the bank’s controls, and just as importantly, its culture.

I joined the team that day to get their report, and over the

— 225 —

YOUR COMPETITION

next several hours we came to understand the situation and

comprehend its consequences for the company. What blew my

mind was that three times during the afternoon and evening,

twice in the hallway and once in the men’s room, the same

thing happened. A Kidder Peabody manager on the team ap-

proached me, and with a worried look on his face, asked me in

one way or another: “What’s this going to do to our bonuses

this year?”

Ten years later, it still sends me over the top.

In the end, with the sale of Kidder Peabody to Paine Webber

and ultimately to UBS, the deal ended up being OK for our share-

holders. But the truth is, we should have never put the organiza-

tion through the trauma that merger wrought. When it was all

over, I swore I would never buy another company unless its values

were a close match with GE’s or it could easily be brought into the

GE fold.

I passed over some deals on the West Coast in the ’90s because

of my concerns about cultural fit. But I just couldn’t go down that

values-mismatch road again. The booming technology companies

in California had their cultures—filled with chest thumping,

bravado, and sky-high compensation.

By contrast, our software operations in places like Cincinnati

and Milwaukee were made up of hard working, down-to-earth

engineers, most of whom were graduates of state universities in

the Midwest. These engineers were every bit as good as the West

Coast talent, and they were paid well but not outrageously.

Frankly, I didn’t want to pollute the healthy culture we had.

Every deal affects the acquiring company’s culture in some

way, and you have to think about that going in. The acquired

company’s culture can blend nicely with yours. That’s the best