SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Leadership and Trust
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of trust in leadership, emphasizing transparency, credit-giving, and making tough decisions.
KEYWORDS: leadership, trust, decision-making
---

establishes the leader as boss, but it

drains trust right out of a team.

What is trust? I could give you a dictionary definition, but you

know it when you feel it. Trust happens when leaders are trans-

parent, candid, and keep their word. It’s that simple.

Your people should always know where they stand in terms of

their performance. They have to know how the business is doing.

And sometimes the news is not good—such as imminent layoffs—

and any normal person would rather avoid delivering it. But you

have to fight the impulse to pad or diminish hard messages or

you’ll pay with your team’s confidence and energy.

Leaders also establish trust by giving credit where credit is due.

They never score off their own people by stealing an idea and

claiming it as their own. They don’t kiss up and kick down

because they are self-confident and mature enough to know that

their team’s success will get them recognition, and sooner rather

than later. In bad times, leaders take responsibility for what’s gone

wrong. In good times, they generously pass around the praise.

When you become a leader, sometimes you really feel the pull

to say, “Look at what I’ve done.” When your team excels, it’s only

normal to want some credit yourself.

After all, you run the show. You hand out the paychecks, so

people listen to your every word (or pretend to) and they laugh at

all your jokes (or pretend to). In some companies, being boss

means getting a special parking place or traveling first class. It

could go to your head. You could really start to feel pretty big.

— 71 —

YOUR COMPANY

Don’t let it happen.

Remember, when you were made a leader you weren’t given a

crown, you were given a responsibility to bring out the best in

others. For that, your people need to trust you. And they will, as

long as you demonstrate candor, give credit, and stay real.

RULE 5. Leaders have the courage to make unpopu-

lar decisions and gut calls.

By nature, some people are consensus builders. Some people long

to be loved by everyone.

Those behaviors can really get you in the soup if you are a

leader, because no matter where you work or what you do, there

are times you have to make hard decisions—let people go, cut

funding to a project, or close a plant.

Obviously, tough calls spawn complaints and resistance. Your

job is to listen and explain yourself clearly but move forward. Do

not dwell or cajole.

You are not a leader to win a popularity contest—you are a

leader to lead. Don’t run for office. You’re already elected.

Sometimes making a decision is hard not because it’s unpopu-

lar, but because it comes from your gut and defies a “technical” ra-

tionale.

Much has been written about

You are not a leader the mystery of gut, but it’s really just

pattern recognition, isn’t it? You’ve

to win a popularity

seen something so many times

contest—you are a

you just know what’s going on

leader to lead. this time. The facts may be incom-

plete or the data limited, but the

— 72 —

LEADERSHIP

situation feels very, very familiar

to you. If you’re left with that

Leaders are faced with gut calls

uh-oh feeling in your

all the time. You’re asked to invest in

stomach, don’t hire

a new office building, for instance,

but visiting the city,you see cranes in the guy.

every direction. The deal’s numbers

are absolutely perfect, you’re told,

but you’ve been here before.You know that overcapacity is around

the corner and the “perfect” investment is about to be worth sixty

cents on the dollar. You’ve got no proof, but you’ve got a real uh-

oh feeling in your stomach.

You have to kill the deal, even if that pisses people off.

Sometimes the hardest gut calls involve picking people. You

meet a candidate who has all the right stuff. His résumé is perfect:

prestigious schools and great experience. His interview is impres-

sive: firm handshake, good eye contact, smart questions, and so on.

But something nags at you. Maybe he’s moved around an awful

lot—he’s just had too many jobs in too few years without a plausi-

ble enough explanation. Or his energy seems too frantic. Or one

previous boss said nice things about him but didn’t sound as

though he really meant them.

And you’re left with that uh-oh feeling in your stomach again.

Don’t hire the guy.

You’ve been made a leader because you’ve seen more and been

right more times. Listen to your gut. It’s telling you something.

RULE 6. Leaders probe and push with a curiosity that

borders on skepticism, making sure their questions are

answered with action.

— 73 —

YOUR COMPANY

When you are an individual contributor, you try to have all the

answers. That’s your job—to be an expert, the best at what you do,

maybe even the smartest person in the room.

When you are a leader, your job is to have all the questions.You

have to be incredibly comfortable looking like the dumbest

person in the room. Every conversation you have about a deci-

sion, a proposal, or a piece of market information has to be filled

with you saying, “What if?” and “Why not?” and “How come?”

When I was first made a manager, in 1963, I was running a

start-up with a product that went to market through a large pool

sales force. I knew we weren’t getting enough attention from the

people in the field. So every weekend I would take home carbon

copies of the sales reports filed after every customer visit—piles of

them. On Mondays, I would make a pest of myself with a round

of phone calls, asking the salespeople or the plant manager to ex-

plain everything I didn’t understand. Why, for instance, were we

giving truckload pricing to one customer for small lot sales? Why