SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Competitive Strategy
SUMMARY: The passage discusses the importance of anticipating and responding to competitive threats through proactive strategy and innovation.
KEYWORDS: Competitive Dynamics, Technology Innovation, Adaptability, Paranoia, Game-Changing Moves
---

and our customers—the hospitals—were frustrated that they had

to make big capital outlays for technology that could be outdated

within a year.

Seeing that dynamic, Walt Robb, the head of our medical

business, and his team, came up with a breakthrough idea. GE

would allocate its resources to design scanners that could be

continually upgraded with hardware or software that would cost

less than $100,000 a year. We would sell our machines by saying,

“Buy a CT scanner from our Continuum Series, and our upgrades

will keep you from becoming obsolete for a fraction of the price

of new equipment.”

The Continuum concept changed the playing field. It made us

No. 1 and has kept us there for twenty-five years.

The main point here is that slides two and three work as a pair.

They take anything static out of strategy and get you ready for the

questions that come next.

■

— 177 —

YOUR COMPETITION

SLIDE FOUR

What’s Around the Corner?

■ What scares you most in the year ahead—what

one or two things could a competitor do to nail you?

■ What new products or technologies could your

competitors launch that might change the game?

■ What M & A deals would knock you off your feet?

This set of questions is, with doubt, the one that most people

miss.

They just don’t give it the paranoia it deserves.

Most people answering this set of questions underestimate the

power and capabilities of their competitors. Too often, the

assumption going in is that competitors will always look the way

they do in slide one—they’ll never change.

Take the case of Aircraft Engines in the 1990s, when our

engineers believed that they had designed the perfect engine for

the Boeing 777—the GE90. We spent more than $1 billion to get

more than 90,000 pounds of thrust out of a brand-new design,

based on the assumption that Pratt & Whitney could not

afford to launch a new engine and would be unable to extend

their existing engines to that level.

We were wrong.

Pratt & Whitney, with only $200 million in development, did

get 90,000 pounds of thrust out of their existing engines. Because

their costs were less, we had to sell the GE90 at lower prices than

— 178 —

STRATEGY

we planned. We had underestimated the competition because we

thought we had all the technical answers.

This story had a lucky ending. Several years later, Boeing

developed a long-range version of the 777. It required 115,000

pounds of thrust, which the GE90 could meet since it was a

new design and could be expanded. We ended up being chosen

by Boeing as their sole source, but because of our early miscal-

culation, we suffered through a few painful, less profitable

years.

Getting the right strategy means you have to assume your

competitors are damn good, or at the very least as good as you are,

and that they are moving just as fast or faster.

When it comes to peering into the future, you just can’t be

paranoid enough.

■

— 179 —

YOUR COMPETITION

SLIDE FIVE

What’s Your Winning Move?

■ What can you do to change the playing field—is it

an acquisition, a new product, globalization?

■ What can you do to make customers stick to you

more than ever before and more than to anyone else?

This is the moment to leap from analysis to action. You decide

to launch the new product, make the acquisition, double the sales

force, or invest in major new capacity. In reality, this is when Walt

Robb and his team made the decision to allocate major resources

to the Continuum Series, the strategic move that would keep GE’s

medical customers “sticky” for decades.

By the time you’ve finished this set of questions, the effective-

ness of your strategy should be pretty clear. Your big aha is

winning, or it needs to change. Even if you didn’t have a strategy

before, this process should help you get one.

But either way, you’ve only just begun.

■

— 180 —

STRATEGY

THE RIGHT PEOPLE

Here’s a familiar scene. Managers meet for months on end in

intensive sessions about the company’s competitive situation and

direction. Committees and subcommittees are formed. Surveys

are conducted. Sometimes consultants are brought in. And then, at

last and with tons of fanfare, the company’s leaders announce a

new strategy.

Which just sits there.

Any strategy, no matter how smart, is dead on arrival unless a

company brings it to life with people—the right people.

Forget speeches. They’re just hot air. The organization knows

who’s important. Only if those important people are assigned to

lead a new strategy will it take off.

Consider what happened in Power Systems when our push

toward product services first got announced. Immediately, all the

engineers wanted to know what the heck was going on. After all,

they had joined GE because they wanted to build the biggest,

highest-powered, most environmentally sensitive turbines. Sud-

denly, they were being told that the people who serviced their

“masterpieces” were going to be the stars of the show.

Didn’t service people, they thought, carry oilcans?

Although the engineers heard the speeches, they didn’t take

them seriously, which was easy enough, since services were buried

in the existing organization.

What did we do? We eventually took Ric Artigas, a PhD and

the engineering leader in Locomotives, and put him in charge of

a new and separate P & L devoted to Power Systems’ services

business. It was a real signal—Ric was a well-respected player.

With his new stature, he had no trouble recruiting the best engi-

— 181 —

YOUR COMPETITION

neers in Power Systems, who were needed to design sophisticated

software packages for turbine upgrades.

The services strategy was under way. In 2005, Ric’s operating

profit of close to $2.5 billion will be about equal to revenues when

he took over in 1997.

Getting strategy right also means matching people with jobs—