SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Business Decisions
SUMMARY: Focuses on the importance of strategic resource allocation and making clear-cut choices about how to compete in a business.
KEYWORDS: strategy, resource allocation, clear-cut choices, competition, commoditization
---

Look, what is strategy but resource allocation? When you strip

away all the noise, that’s what it comes down to. Strategy means

making clear-cut choices about how to compete. You cannot be

everything to everybody, no matter what the size of your business

or how deep its pockets.

Corner stores have learned that survival depends on finding a

strategic position where no one can beat them. Big companies

have the same challenge.

When I became CEO in 1981,

we launched a highly publicized

initiative: “Be No. 1 or No. 2 in Strategy means making

every market, and fix, sell, or close to

clear-cut choices about

get there.” This was not our strategy,

how to compete. You

although I’ve heard it described that

cannot be everything

way. It was a galvanizing mantra to

describe how we were going to to everybody, no matter

do business going forward. There

what the size of your

would be no more hanging on to

business or how deep

uncompetitive businesses for old

its pockets.

times’ sake. More than anything else,

the No. 1 or No. 2 initiative was a

— 169 —

YOUR COMPETITION

communication tool to clean up our portfolio, and it really

worked.

Our strategy was much more directional. GE was going to

move away from businesses that were being commoditized toward

businesses that manufactured high-value technology products or

sold services instead of things. As part of that move, we were going

to massively upgrade our human resources—our people—with a

relentless focus on training and development.

We chose that strategy after getting hammered by the Japanese

in the 1970s. They had rapidly commoditized businesses where

we had had reasonable margins, like TV sets and room air

conditioners. We ended up playing defense in a losing game. Our

quality, cost, and service—the weapons of a commodity busi-

ness—weren’t good enough in the face of their innovation and

declining prices. Every day at work was a kind of protracted agony.

Despite our productivity improvements and increasing innova-

tion, margins were eroding, as competitors like Toshiba, Hitachi,

and Matsushita were relentless.

Meanwhile, overseeing GE Capital in the late ’70s, I was

shocked (and delighted) to see how easy it was to make money in

financial services, particularly with GE’s balance sheet. There were

no union factories, no foreign competition, and plenty of interest-

ing, creative ways to offer customers differentiated products and

services. I remember the excitement in that period, seeing our

people develop new private-label credit card programs and find

niche after niche in middle-market industrial financing. Fat mar-

gins weren’t exactly low-hanging fruit, but close.

By the time I was made CEO, I knew that GE had to get as far

away as it could from any business that smelled like a commodity

and get as close as possible to the other end of the spectrum. That’s

why we divested businesses like TV sets, small appliances, air con-

ditioners, and a huge coal company, Utah International. It is also

— 170 —

STRATEGY

why we invested so heavily in GE

Capital; bought RCA, which in- If they’re headed in the

cluded NBC; and poured resources

right direction and are

into developing high-technology

broad enough, strategies

products in our power, medical, air-

craft engine, and locomotive busi- don’t really need to

nesses. change all that often.

Now, in such changing times,

how and why did GE stick with one

strategy over twenty years? The answer is that strategies, if they’re

headed in the right direction and are broad enough, don’t really

need to change all that often, especially if they are supplemented

with fresh initiatives. To that end, over the years, we launched four

programs to bolster our strategy—globalization, service add-ons,

Six Sigma, and e-business.

More than anything, though, our strategy lasted because it was

based on two powerful underlying principles: commoditization is

evil and people are everything.

Virtually every resource allocation decision we made was

based on those beliefs.

Yes, some companies can win in commodity situations—Dell

and Wal-Mart are great examples of companies that have pulled

the levers of cost, quality, and service to succeed in extremely

competitive games. But that is really tough. You just can’t make

any mistakes.

My advice, then, is when you think strategy, think about

decommoditizing. Try desperately to make products and services

distinctive and customers stick to you like glue. Think about

innovation, technology, internal processes, service add-ons—

whatever works to be unique. Doing that right means you can

even make a few mistakes and still succeed.

That’s enough theory!

— 171 —

YOUR COMPETITION

MAKING STRATEGY REAL

The first step of making strategy real is figuring out the big aha to

gain sustainable competitive advantage—in other words, a signifi-

cant, meaningful insight about how to win. To do that, you need

to debate, grapple with, wallow in, and finally answer five sets of

questions.

Going into this exercise, I’ll assume that you have a strategy to

begin with, either written somewhere or in your head.

That said, having a strategy doesn’t mean it’s working.

The five slides we’re going to look at here are a way to test your

strategy, to see if it’s getting you where you want to go, and figure

out how to fix it if it’s not, even to the point of changing it entirely.

I strongly believe this questioning process should not be a

wide-scale, bottom-up event. While others may disagree, I know

that strategy is the job of the CEO or the unit leader, along with

his or her direct reports. If the culture is healthy, they can see the

organization in all its various, interdependent parts. They know its

people, as well as its sources of ideas and innovation, and can best

determine where the most exciting opportunities lie. Moreover,

they are the ones who will ultimately commit the resources the

strategy requires. They get the plaudits if the strategy succeeds and

hold the bag if it fails.

If you have a good team—candid, insightful, passionate about