SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Strategy and Operations
SUMMARY: This text discusses a more effective approach to budgeting that aligns employees with shareholders, promotes growth and energy, and inspires people to stretch beyond traditional budgeting processes.
KEYWORDS: budgeting, strategy, management, growth, execution
---

That’s not just a mind-set. It’s a religion.

■

The other evening we were eating at Torch, a wonderful little

restaurant one door down from Upper Crust Pizza, and from our

seats in the window, we could see its delivery people on bikes, in

cars, and on foot zipping back and forth in nonstop motion.

We started to play with the economics of the place, using

rough numbers, but even with the most conservative estimates, we

could only conclude that Upper Crust is very profitable.

You’ve got to believe that the people running Upper Crust

have never held a strategy review session, let alone worked

through five slides to reach a big aha.

Their big aha is all in the sauce.

Look, I don’t want to oversimplify strategy. But you just

shouldn’t agonize over it. Find the right aha and set the direction,

put the right people in place, and work like crazy to execute bet-

ter than everyone else, finding best practices and improving them

every day.

You may not run a corner store, but when you’re making strat-

egy, act like you do.

— 188 —

12

Budgeting

REINVENTING THE RITUAL

NOT TO BEAT AR O UND THE BU SH, but the budget-

ing process at most companies has to be the most ineffective

practice in management.

It sucks the energy, time, fun, and big dreams out of an organi-

zation. It hides opportunity and stunts growth. It brings out the

most unproductive behaviors in an organization, from sandbag-

ging to settling for mediocrity.

In fact, when companies win, in most cases it is despite their

budgets, not because of them.

And yet, as with strategy formulation, companies sink countless

hours into writing budgets. What a waste!

I’m not saying financial planning is bad. Without question, you

have to have a way to keep track of the numbers—just not the way

it’s usually done.

In this chapter, I’m going to talk about a totally different

approach to budgeting. It aligns employees with shareholders, puts

growth, energy, and fun into financial planning, and inspires

— 189 —

YOUR COMPETITION

people to stretch. In fact, this ap-

The right budgeting proach is so unlike the typical

budget process that when we started

process can change how a

using it at GE, we stopped using the

company functions—and

word budget altogether.

reinventing the ritual But more on that later.

makes winning so much The good news is that the process

I recommend is not very hard to do.

easier, you can’t afford

It is certainly no harder than the

not to try.

slogging, mind-numbing budgeting

process that is the status quo.

But this new process can be

practiced only if a company has trust and candor flowing through

its veins. As I’ve mentioned throughout this book, that’s rare.

Perhaps budgets that actually inspire creativity and growth will

make the case for that to change.

Most companies use budgeting as the backbone of their man-

agement systems. And so the right budgeting process can actually

change how a company functions—and reinventing the annual rit-

ual makes winning so much easier, you just can’t afford not to try.

BUDGETS, THE WRONG WAY

Before describing how to devise budgets the right way, let’s look at

the two killing dynamics that are the norm. I call them the Nego-

tiated Settlement and the Phony Smile approaches to budgeting.

These dynamics, incidentally, aren’t only the purview of big

corporate bureaucracies. No matter what size company you work

in, one of these two approaches, maybe both, will probably sound

very familiar to you. In my Q & A sessions around the world, I’ve

heard about them in virtually every country and in companies

with as few as a couple hundred employees, even in organizations

— 190 —

BUDGETING

that call themselves entrepreneurial. Bad budgeting is just that in-

sidious; it creeps in everywhere and establishes itself as an institu-

tionalized process. It’s amazing how many times I have heard

audience members decry entrenched budgeting systems, only for

them to wearily conclude, “But that’s just the way it’s done.”

It doesn’t have to be. But first you have to undo those killing

dynamics I just mentioned.

SPLIT THE DIFFERENCE

Of these dynamics, the Negotiated Settlement is the more

common.

This process begins when the ink is barely dry on the strategic

plan. That’s when the businesses in the field start the long slog of

constructing the next year’s highly detailed financial plans from

the bottom up. These will be presented in several months’ time at

the Big Budget Meeting with headquarters. The numbers cover

everything—from costs to pricing assumptions.

In all their assumptions, the people in the field are operating

with one simple goal, albeit unstated: to minimize their risk and

maximize their bonus. In other

words, their underlying, galvanizing

mission is to come up with targets

The people in the field

that they absolutely, positively think

are operating with

they can hit.

Why? Because in most compa- one simple goal, albeit

nies, people are rewarded for hitting

unstated: to minimize

budget. Missing your budget gets

their risk and maximize

you a stick in the eye or worse. So of

their bonus.

course people want to keep their

budget numbers as low as possible.

— 191 —

YOUR COMPETITION

No wonder their budgets are filled with layer after layer of conser-

vatism.

Meanwhile, back at headquarters, senior managers are also

preparing for the Big Budget Meeting. Their agenda, however, is

the exact opposite of the field. They’re rewarded for increased

earnings, and so what they want from the budget review at every

business is significant growth in sales and profits.

Now fast-forward to the Big Budget Meeting itself.

The two sides meet in a windowless room with a whole day set

aside for what everyone knows will be an unpleasant wrestling

match.

The field makes its presentation with a fat deck of PowerPoint

slides, and the story is invariably dire. Despite reports of a pretty