SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Organizational Dynamics
SUMMARY: Candor in organizations leads to increased idea generation, faster decision-making, and reduced costs, yet people are often socialized to avoid candor.
KEYWORDS: candor, organizational culture, communication, decision-making, idea generation
---

tion, and when you get more people in the conversation, to state

the obvious, you get idea rich. By that, I mean many more ideas

get surfaced, discussed, pulled apart, and improved. Instead of

everyone shutting down, everyone opens up and learns. Any orga-

nization—or unit or team—that brings more people and their

minds into the conversation has an immediate advantage.

Second, candor generates speed. When ideas are in everyone’s

face, they can be debated rapidly, expanded and enhanced, and

acted upon. That approach—surface, debate, improve, decide—

isn’t just an advantage, it’s a necessity in a global marketplace. You

can be sure that any upstart five-person enterprise down the street

or in Shanghai or in Bangalore can move faster than you to begin

with. Candor is one way to keep up.

Third, candor cuts costs—lots—although you’ll never be able

to put a precise number on it. Just think of how it eliminates

meaningless meetings and b.s. reports that confirm what everyone

already knows. Think of how candor replaces fancy PowerPoint

slides and mind-numbing presentations and boring off-site con-

claves with real conversations, whether they’re about company

strategy, a new product introduction, or someone’s performance.

— 27 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

Put all of its benefits and efficiencies together and you realize

you just can’t afford not to have candor.

SO WHY NOT?

Given the advantages of candor, you have to wonder, why don’t

we have more of it?

Well, the problem starts young.

The facts are, we are socialized from childhood to soften bad

news or to make nice about awkward subjects. That is true in

every culture and in every country and in every social class. It

doesn’t make any difference if you are in Iceland or Portugal, you

don’t insult your mother’s cooking or call your best friend fat or

tell an elderly aunt that you hated her wedding gift. You just don’t.

What happened at a suburban cocktail party we attended re-

cently is classic. Over white wine and sushi rolls, one woman

standing in a cluster of five others started lamenting the horrible

stress being endured by the local elementary school’s music

teacher. Other guests chimed in, all agreeing that fourth-graders

were enough to send you to the insane asylum. Fortunately, just

before the music teacher was canonized, another guest entered the

conversation, saying, “Are you guys crazy? That teacher gets fif-

teen weeks off a year!” She pointed to the doctor standing in the

circle, who had been nodding away

in agreement. “Robert,” she said,

We are socialized from “you make life-and-death decisions

every day. Surely you don’t buy this

childhood to soften bad

sad story, do you?”

news or make nice about

Talk about killing polite chitchat.

awkward subjects.

The new guest sent everyone scat-

tering, mostly toward the bar.

— 28 —

CANDOR

Candor just unnerves people.

That was a lighthearted example, Eventually, you come to

of course, but when you try to

realize that people don’t

understand candor, you are really

speak their minds because

trying to understand human nature.

For hundreds of years, psychologists it’s simply easier not to.

and social scientists have studied

why people don’t say what they

mean, and philosophers have been reflecting on the same subject

for literally thousands of years.

A good friend of mine,Nancy Bauer,is a professor of philosophy

at Tufts University. When I ask her about candor, she tells me that

most philosophers have come to the same conclusions on this topic

as most of us laypeople do with age and experience. Eventually, you

come to realize that people don’t speak their minds because it’s sim-

ply easier not to. When you tell it like it is, you can so easily create a

mess—anger, pain, confusion, sadness, resentment. To make matters

worse, you then feel compelled to clean up that mess, which can be

awful and awkward and time-consuming.So you justify your lack of

candor on the grounds that it prevents sadness or pain in another

person, that not saying anything or telling a little white lie is the

kind, decent thing to do. But in fact, Nancy says, classic philoso-

phers like Immanuel Kant give powerful arguments for the view

that not being candid is actually about self-interest—making your

own life easier.

Nancy tells me that Kant had another point, too. He said that

people are often strongly tempted not to be candid because they

don’t look at the big picture. They worry that when they speak

their minds and the news isn’t good, they stand a strong chance

of alienating other people. But what they don’t see is that lack of

candor is the ultimate form of alienation.“There was a huge irony in

— 29 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

this for Kant," Nancy says. "He believed that when people avoid

candor in order to curry favor with other people, they actually

destroy trust, and in that way, they ultimately erode society."

I tell Nancy the same could be said about eroding business.

FROM THEN TO NOW

The make-or-break importance of candor in U.S. business is rela-

tively new, actually. Up until the early 1980s, big companies like

GE and thousands of others operated largely without it, as did

most companies regardless of size. These companies were a prod-

uct of the military-industrial complex that grew up after World

War II. They had virtually no global competition, and, in fact,

companies within industries were so similar to one another that

they could often seem more collegial than competitive.

Take the steel industry. Every three years or so, union workers

across several companies would demand higher pay and benefits.

The steel companies would meet those demands, passing their in-

creased costs on to the automotive industry, which would pass

their increased costs on to the consumer.

It was a nice party until the Japanese arrived at the door with

their average-quality, low-cost imported cars that within a few

years became high-quality, low-cost cars, many of them made in

nonunion U.S. factories.