SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Corporate Governance
SUMMARY: Examines the roles and responsibilities of corporate boards, including financial oversight, leadership selection, and integrity monitoring.
KEYWORDS: corporate boards, financial oversight, leadership selection, integrity monitoring, Sarbanes-Oxley
---

far-flung locations, can spend a couple of days every month study-

ing a company’s books and verify that everything is on the

up-and-up. Imagine being a board member of a multinational

bank. You have people trading everything, swapping Japanese yen

for euros in London, and others betting on U.S. commodity

futures down the hall. But even most small companies have too

much complexity for a committee to track, with hundreds of

transactions every day, near and far.

While boards cannot be police, they must assure themselves

that companies have auditors, rigorous internal processes, tight

controls, and the right culture for that purpose.

Boards play other roles as well. They pick the CEO and

approve the top management. In fact, they should know members

of the top team as well as they know their own colleagues. Boards

also monitor the mission of the company. Is it real? Do people

understand it? Is it being executed? Can it win?

Boards also gauge the integrity of the company. That’s huge.

They must visit the field operations and conduct meaningful

conversations with people at every level, eyeball to eyeball. It is in

this subtle, nuanced integrity watchdog role that boards can make

a real contribution.

For some boards, Sarbanes-Oxley will require a real change in

behavior. They will need to stop thinking about their jobs as eight,

ten, or twelve closed-door meetings a year with lovely catered

lunches.

For others, it will only reinforce their existing approach.

Now, in the rush to deal with the scandals, perhaps some

aspects of Sarbanes-Oxley went too far, for example, the rules that

imply the superiority of independent directors over directors who

have some sort of stake in the company, either as investors, suppli-

— 352 —

THE QUESTIONS THAT ALMOST GOT AWAY

ers, or any other form of business

partner. Board members cannot

This new requirement needs a

get into an us-versus-

re-look with a big dose of common

them dynamic with the

sense.

There is nothing wrong with very people they are

directors having skin in the game. supposed to help.

For the shareholders’ sake, directors

should really care about how the

company is doing. But the notion that independent directors are

better for the company is having the unintended consequence, in

some cases, of removing good judgment and experience from

where it is needed most.

Take the case of Sam Nunn, the distinguished former U.S.

senator from Georgia. Or Roger Penske, the automobile industry

entrepreneur. Both were required to leave key GE board commit-

tees. Why? After leaving the Senate, Sam joined King & Spalding,

a law firm that GE had done business with for decades. In Roger’s

case, he had a minority interest in a small GE truck-leasing joint

venture. Or take the case of Warren Buffett. Activists wanted him

off the audit committee at Coca-Cola because of his large owner-

ship stake.

Who would represent the share owners better on key commit-

tees than these three people? A professor? An accounting expert?

The head of a charitable foundation? Why would share owners

ever want company executives answering to people who might

need a director’s salary to make ends meet? Those kinds of direc-

tors are less likely to challenge anything—they’re more likely to

duck tough issues in the hope they get reappointed.

Let’s not forget that boards exist to support and guide, as well

as challenge, management. It would be unfortunate indeed if

Sarbanes-Oxley ends up making boards primarily adversarial in

— 353 —

TYING UP LOOSE ENDS

their approach. Board members can never forget their main job is

to make the company work better, not to get into an us-versus-

them dynamic with the very people they are supposed to help.

In the final analysis, the best directors share four very simple

traits: good character, common sense, sound judgment—particu-

larly about people—and the courage to speak up.

Laws are all well and good. But it is people, culture, processes,

controls—and strong directors—that ultimately put compliance

in a company’s blood.

This question came at a breakfast meeting in Copenhagen with

about thirty European managers doing business for their global

companies in Scandinavia:

I’m about to be transferred to run our operations

in West Africa, and I’ve been told to expect that

40 percent of my workforce have AIDS or a family

member suffering with the disease. Any suggestions

for dealing with this problem?

No question ever floored me like this one.

And as if it wasn’t disturbing enough on its own, another

person at the breakfast, an executive from a consumer goods com-

pany, spoke up right afterward. “I’m just back from our operations

in Africa,”he said. “Try closer to 60 percent.”

What can a leader do in such a dire situation? What can a com-

pany do?

It is in confronting a societal problem that the results of a

winning company and a good culture really come together to

make a difference. At the outset of this book, I tried to make the

case that winning is great because it inspires people to be happy,

creative, and generous.

— 354 —

THE QUESTIONS THAT ALMOST GOT AWAY

That was me talking from 20,000 feet. This question brings

you right into the trenches.

The manager who asked this question worked for a highly

profitable oil company, and I could feel that he really wanted to do

something. He’ll be able to because his company is winning. He

can launch programs to educate the workforce about AIDS. He

can provide medical facilities and subsidize the expensive drugs

the disease requires. He can really improve the lives of hundreds of

people. I’ll bet he does.

Winning companies help all the time.

There are more than fifty thousand active volunteers among

GE’s employees, involved in four thousand projects a year, from

mentoring in schools around the world to participating in count-

less other programs for the disadvantaged. Because of the efforts

of GE volunteers, there have been amazing community projects