SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Transformation
SUMMARY: The text discusses how large companies can adapt and transform themselves to remain competitive in the face of technological disruption and changing market demands.
KEYWORDS: business transformation, industry disruption, competitive strategies, cost reduction, innovation
---

decades, work felt really hard. Big companies were labeled

dinosaurs, and it became conventional wisdom that technology

start-ups would soon rule the world. In fact, it was said whole

industries were going to be obliterated by the Internet.

Then the bubble burst. Many of those little companies that

were going to rule the world disappeared. Others, like eBay and

Amazon, not only survived, they thrived. But so did the so-called

dinosaurs—because they changed. They grabbed the new tech-

nology and transformed themselves, emerging stronger than ever.

And change is what China demands of us now.

How?

First and most obvious, bring out the three old warhorses of

competition—cost, quality, and service—and drive them to new

levels, making every person in the organization see them for what

they are, a matter of survival.

Take costs. Everyone needs to be searching everywhere, inside

the company and out, for best practices. Hard calls need to be

— 342 —

THE QUESTIONS THAT ALMOST GOT AWAY

made about where and how every

single process should be performed First and most obvious,

to ratchet up productivity. Don’t

bring out the three

think about reducing costs by 5 to

old warhorses of

10 percent. You have to find the

ways to take out 30 to 40 percent. In competition—cost,

most cases, that’s what it will take to quality, and service—and

be competitive in the China world.

drive them to new levels.

On quality, you just can’t have a

ship-and-fix mentality. Getting it

right 95 percent of the time is not good enough. Use Six Sigma or

any methodology you like. But get rid of defects.

Service is the easiest advantage to exploit. China is thousands

of miles away from most developed markets. Remember Gary

Drug, the tiny pharmacy in our neighborhood where not only do

they know your name, they deliver to your house within an hour?

It’s standing strong against its China—the big, shiny chain-store

pharmacy three blocks away. And think about the Mexican CEO

who asked this question to start with. His country’s proximity to

the United States gives it a huge advantage in response time.

Again, your challenge is not just to improve. It is to break the

service paradigm in your industry or market so that customers

aren’t just satisfied, they’re so shocked that they tell strangers on

the street how good you are. FedEx and Dell come to mind as

examples of this.

While you have to innovate to improve cost, quality, and

service, go beyond that. Take a new, hard look at your market.

Search out untapped opportunities; find new niches. Just don’t

keep pounding out the same stuff.

That market you’re serving may seem saturated, but it is filled

with plenty of demand for exciting new products, services, or

technologies. That’s what Procter & Gamble discovered recently.

— 343 —

TYING UP LOOSE ENDS

There was no company more set in its ways than P&G. But in less

than five years, the company instilled a whole new vigor into its

innovation efforts. It broke its NIH syndrome and scoured every

corner of the world for “garage” inventors with cutting-edge

ideas. And they didn’t stop there. Their search for new ideas led

them to create networks into other companies, suppliers, universi-

ties, research labs, and venture capitalists. They took some of the

ideas they found and fine-tuned them, and used still others to

reinvent their existing products. For instance, P&G took the tried-

and-true electrostatic technology used to paint cars and applied

it to its cosmetics business—transforming the way its makeup

products go on the skin. With a new can-do attitude, the company

also revitalized in-house R & D. The result was products like Crest

Whitestrips and the Swiffer cleaning products, which literally

invented whole new mass-market categories.

And finally, while you are innovating and searching for new

products, markets, and niches, come to terms with the fact that

China can be much more than just a competitor.

Think of China as a market, an outsourcing option, and a

potential partner.

Unlike Japan in its early develop-

ment, China’s huge market is rela-

You can look at China tively open to direct investment.

Many can go it alone there, ideally

and feel victimized.

selling their product in the Chinese

Or you can look at it and

market while sourcing product for

be excited about their home market.

conquering the challenges Alternatively, you can join forces

with a local business. Needless to

and opportunities

say, Chinese joint ventures aren’t

it presents.

easy. In my experience, to make

them happen you have to make sure

— 344 —

THE QUESTIONS THAT ALMOST GOT AWAY

the Chinese partner feels as if it has gained a lot, perhaps more than

you. But there are ways to craft win-win deals. When GE Medical

formed a joint venture in 1991, its Chinese partner brought great

local market know-how. That was a big factor in the new

company’s achieving the No. 1 market share in imported GE

high-end imaging products. At the same time, the joint venture’s

Chinese engineers designed and built low-cost, high-quality

products that were exported through GE’s global distribution net-

work.

Now, I don’t want to sound like a Pollyanna about China. Its

presence is a real game-changer in business today. And even if

trade restrictions get enacted, its currency is allowed to fluctuate,

and intellectual property laws are passed, no political solution in

the world is going to make it go away.

But China is a classic case of the glass half empty or half full,

isn’t it?

You can look at the situation and feel victimized. Or you can

look at it and be excited about conquering the challenges and

opportunities it presents.

Pick the latter. You can’t win wringing your hands.

This question was posed by an audience member in London,

at a conference attended by about three thousand middle and senior

managers:

Norway just passed a law mandating that half of

every corporate board be comprised of women. What is