SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses the challenges and importance of effectively managing organizational change, including the need for clear communication and alignment on the rationale for change.
KEYWORDS: organizational change, change initiatives, communication, resistance to change, business turnaround
---

different change initiatives at once and run in eight different

directions. Nothing meaningful ever happens in these flavor-of-

the-month kinds of situations except that, for most employees,

work feels very frantic and disorganized.

Actually, change should be a relatively orderly process.

But for that to occur, people have to understand—in their

heads and in their hearts—why change is necessary and where the

change is taking them.

This is easier, of course, when the problems are obvious—as in,

the house is burning down. Earnings are collapsing, a competitor

— 135 —

YOUR COMPANY

has dropped prices 20 percent, or a new product appears that to-

tally threatens your market position. Change is made even easier

when the media is writing stories about your imminent demise—

perhaps the one time you welcome bad press! Many of the most

notable large company turnarounds in the past decade had this

going for them: GM, IBM, and Xerox, to name three.

When the whole world knows about your problem, the wind

is at your back.

But sometimes the need for change isn’t scrawled across the

skies.

Competitive threats only seem to be emerging. They may not

even be real . . . or they may be your company’s death knell. You

don’t know—and still, you have to respond.

In those cases, lots of data and relentless communication

about the business rationale for change are the best ammunition

you’ve got.

Take the case of GE’s appliances business in the late 1970s. In

those days, Appliances and Lighting were the mainstays of the

company—the previous two chairmen and several vice-chairmen

had come from their ranks. As far as everyone in the business was

concerned, GE was the leader in major appliances and it would be

that way forever.

In 1978, when I was appointed head of the Consumer Prod-

ucts Group, I found myself staring at an appliances business whose

market share had been slipping for a few years and whose margins

were sliding even faster. To an outsider like me, the situation

looked frighteningly similar to the television receiver and auto-

motive businesses, where the Japanese were making tremendous

inroads with higher-quality, lower-cost products while fat Ameri-

can companies sat by doing little.

I made my case to Appliances’ business managers at their head-

quarters, in Louisville, Kentucky. The place was loaded with

— 136 —

CHANGE

“good old boys,” not to mention tons of overhead and layers of

bureaucracy. I showed them chart after chart illustrating Appli-

ances’s eroding position. And yet, early buy-in was minimal, to

put it mildly. At the outset, I basically forced the cost-reduction

program.

Almost immediately, I got back the two refrains common to

every cost-reduction program ever launched:

“We’ve already cut the fat. You’re asking us to cut the bone.”

And: “The competitors are crazy. They’re giving away product.

Just watch—they can’t keep it up.”

Fortunately, the head of the business—a “good old boy”

named Dick Donegan, whom I had been prepared to write

off—saw the logic of the case, came to my aid, and started to

champion change at Appliances. His leadership was vital to fixing

things. He had been with Appliances his entire career, so he knew

the players well. He built a team of supporters around him and

cleaned out detractors—literally hundreds of them—over a two-

year period.

In the end, the appliances business went through drastic

changes because it had to. That fact wasn’t blindingly obvious in

1978, when the change was

launched, nor was it overwhelm-

ingly clear for a few years after. In

If the company has

fact, the Japanese never really sold

been through enough

large appliances in the U.S. Only re-

cently have the Chinese and Kore- change programs,

ans made inroads. employees consider you

The domestic competition was

like gas pains. You’ll go

tough enough to make change nec-

away if they just wait

essary. Just look at the price of a re-

frigerator today. That’s why the long enough.

appliances business continues to cut

— 137 —

YOUR COMPANY

costs and still hasn’t hit bone. It is now a business characterized by

continual productivity improvements, modest innovation, and a

team that understands that change is a way of life.

One lesson from the Appliances story is that you don’t always

have, at the outset of a change initiative, every bit of information

you’d like to make your case. Regardless, you need to get out there

and start talking about what you do know and what you fear.

Communication about change does get a lot more challenging

as a company gets larger. It’s one thing if you are the owner of a

two-hundred-person machine tool company to walk into work

one day, call a meeting, and say, “OK, everyone, I just got back

from a sales trip, and guess what, we’ve got brutal competition

from a really innovative new company in Hungary. Things are

going to have to change around here.” It’s another thing entirely to

make the case for change to a company with a hundred thousand

people in multiple business units in multiple countries.

In big companies, calls for change are often greeted with a nice

head fake. People nod at your presentations and pleasantly agree

that given all the data, it sure looks like change is necessary. Then

they go back to doing everything they always did. If the company

has been through enough change programs, employees consider

you like gas pains. You’ll go away if they just wait long enough.

This pervasive skepticism is all the more reason that anyone

leading a change process must stay far away from empty slogans

and instead stick to a solid, persuasive business case.

Over time, logic will win out.

2. Hire and promote only true believers and get-on-

with-it types.

— 138 —

CHANGE

Everyone in business claims they

like change; to say otherwise nowa- Real change agents

days would be career suicide. In fact,

comprise less than

it’s quite common to see someone

10 percent of all