SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Quality Improvement
SUMMARY: The text discusses the benefits of Six Sigma, a quality improvement program that can boost a company's competitiveness through enhanced operational efficiency, productivity, and cost reduction.
KEYWORDS: Six Sigma, Quality Improvement, Operational Efficiency, Productivity, Cost Reduction
---

cannot match.

Yes, mergers and acquisitions have their challenges, and all

kinds of research will tell you that more than half don’t add value.

But nothing says you have to fall victim to that statistic.

Don’t let deal heat get you, and avoid the seven pitfalls—then

reap the rewards of what happens when 1+1 = 3.

— 243 —

15

Six Sigma

BETTER THAN A TRIP

TO THE DENTIST

IN THE PREVIOUS TWO CHAPTERS of this book,

we’ve looked at one of the more exciting aspects of business—

growth—both through starting something new and through

mergers and acquisitions.

In this chapter, we’re leaping to the other end of the spectrum

to talk (briefly, I promise) about what can be one of business’s most

dreary topics, Six Sigma.

Now, I am a huge fan of Six Sigma, the quality improvement

program that GE adopted from Motorola in 1995 and continues

to embrace today.

Nothing compares to the effectiveness of Six Sigma when it

comes to improving a company’s operational efficiency, raising its

productivity, and lowering its costs. It improves design processes,

gets products to market faster with fewer defects, and builds

customer loyalty. Perhaps the biggest but most unheralded benefit

of Six Sigma is its capacity to develop a cadre of great leaders.

Simply put, Six Sigma is one of the great management innova-

— 245 —

YOUR COMPETITION

tions of the past quarter century and

Done right, Six Sigma an extremely powerful way to boost

a company’s competitiveness. These

is energizing and

days, with Six Sigma being increas-

incredibly rewarding.

ingly adopted by companies around

It can even be fun. the world, you can’t afford not to

understand it, let alone not prac-

tice it.

And yet, Six Sigma causes enormous anxiety and confusion.

Over the past several years, in virtually every Q & A session in

country after country, someone in the audience has asked me a

tortured Six Sigma question. You can see the interest level in the

audience plummet and eyes glaze over, as people brace themselves

for a long-winded technical lecture, complete with several graphs

and charts.

I’m exaggerating a bit, of course, but it is fair to say that for

many people, the concept of Six Sigma feels like a trip to a dentist.

But Six Sigma couldn’t be less like a root canal or any other awful

procedure. Done right, it is energizing and incredibly rewarding. It

can even be fun.

You just have to understand what Six Sigma really is.

There is nothing technical in what I am about to say. If you

want to learn about the statistical premise behind the concept, or

learn what it takes to become qualified in Six Sigma, an industry

of books, videos, and training programs eagerly awaits you.

But for our purposes, I’m going to be very simple about what

Six Sigma means and what it does. I call this “Six Sigma for Citi-

zens,”meaning those people—like myself—who’d like to hear the

“elevator speech” version of what Six Sigma is all about and why

it matters so darn much. This explanation is not meant to satisfy

scientists and engineers, who actually do need to know about the

— 246 —

SIX SIGMA

statistical basis of Six Sigma in order to incorporate it into the de-

sign of experiments and complex equipment.

Here goes:

Six Sigma is a quality program that, when all is said and done,

improves your customers’ experience,lowers your costs,and builds

better leaders.

Six Sigma accomplishes that by reducing waste and ineffi-

ciency and by designing a company’s products and internal

processes so that customers get what they want, when they want

it, and when you promised it. Obviously, you want to make your

customers more satisfied than your competitors do, whether you

run Upper Crust Pizza or manufacture the most powerful jet en-

gines. In the strategy chapter we talked about customer loyalty, and

we used the word sticky to describe what you want. Well, a huge

part of making your customers sticky is meeting or exceeding

their expectations, which is exactly what Six Sigma helps you do.

One thing that is sure to kill stickiness is inconsistency in

services or products.

Consider this hypothetical. You make spare parts and promise

ten-day delivery.

Over the course of three deliveries, your customers receive

their parts on day five, day ten, and

day fifteen. On average, ten-day de-

A huge part of making

livery.

your customers sticky is

Over the course of the next three

deliveries, they receive their parts on meeting or exceeding

day two, day seven, and day twelve.

their expectations, which

An average of seven days, a seemingly

is exactly what Six Sigma

big improvement in the customer ex-

helps you do.

perience. But not really—you might

have had some internal process or

— 247 —

YOUR COMPETITION

cost improvements, but the customer has experienced nothing but

inconsistency!

With Six Sigma, your customers would receive all three of

their deliveries on day ten, or in the worst case, on day nine, day

ten, and day eleven.

Six Sigma, in other words, is not about averages. It’s about varia-

tion and removing it from your customer’s interface with you.

To remove variation, Six Sigma requires companies to unpick

their entire supply and distribution chains and the design of their

products. The objective is to wash out anything that might cause

waste, inefficiency, or a customer to get annoyed with your unpre-

dictability.

So, that’s Six Sigma—the elimination of unpleasant surprises

and broken promises.

SIMPLE, COMPLEX, OR NOT AT ALL

From 20,000 feet, Six Sigma has two primary applications. First, it

can be used to remove the variation in routine, relatively simple,

repetitive tasks—activities that happen over and over again. And

second, it can be used to make sure large, complex projects go

right the first time.

Examples of the first kind of application are a multitude.

Call centers from South Dakota to Delhi use Six Sigma to make