SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Career Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses how working for prestigious companies can boost one's career, but cautions that the employee brand should not be the sole factor in job decisions.
KEYWORDS: career growth, employee branding, job selection, career advancement, professional development
---

picked him for the top position.

— 261 —

YOUR CAREER

“It was that same feeling again,” Bob says. “There’s no pretrain-

ing to be a CEO. All your past history, and all your past successes,

they don’t really matter anymore. You have to earn your respect all

over again.”

Bob’s promotion to CEO couldn’t have come at a more chal-

lenging time. The Internet bubble had burst, and the market was

collapsing after 9/11. Bob had to oversee the firm’s first workforce

reduction and redirect its culture.

“I’d say it took a year for me to get on solid footing again,” he

said. “Things are really back to normal—it’s fun now.”

Bob’s story, like so many others, illustrates that you shouldn’t be

afraid of a job that feels too big at the outset. If you’re any good—

which is why you were hired or promoted in the first place—

you’ll grow into it, and be better for the experience.

OPTIONS

If the opportunity signal is about finding a job that allows you to

grow and stretch while you are there, the options signal is about

finding a job that helps you if you leave.

Working for some companies is like winning an Olympic

medal. For the rest of your career, you are associated with great

performance and success. The consulting firm McKinsey & Com-

pany is like that. Because it is known to hire the world’s top MBAs

for their intelligence and intensity,and because of its reputation for

intensive training,its alumni always get attention in the job market.

By the same token, when I was in my early days of hiring in

Plastics, we were always trying to hire people away from DuPont,

and we considered it a real coup when we did.It may not have been

true, but we had it in our heads that if you got a DuPont engineer,

you were getting the most cutting-edge knowledge of processes

and techniques.

— 262 —

THE RIGHT JOB

Microsoft, Wal-Mart, and Johnson

& Johnson also have enormous Working for some

“employee brands,” which is to say,

companies is like

their people get a real credential just

winning an Olympic

by working there for a few years. Even

putting my biases aside, GE is also in medal. For the rest of

this category. Today, five of its former your career, you are

employees are CEOs in the Dow

associated with great

Jones 30. Many more are currently

performance.

CEOs of Fortune 500 companies, and

thousands more are executives at

companies around the world.

Obviously, you cannot let the employee brand phenomenon

totally drive your job decisions. You could end up at a highly

respected company only to discover your boss is terrible or your

job responsibilities are limited. But these kinds of situations are less

likely at the kind of good companies we’re talking about.

You may be thinking that I am writing off small companies

with this advice. Not true. Some small companies offer experi-

ences and exposure that cannot be beat. You get a chance to man-

age people earlier in your career, run projects or units sooner, not

to mention negotiate acquisitions and work more closely with the

CEO and the board. When you’re ready to move on, you won’t

have the credential of a prestigious company, but you will have a

lot of mileage. That really counts at all kinds of places—especially

other small companies, venture capital firms, and entrepreneurial

start-ups.

There is a second part of the options signal.

Some companies open—or close—doors for you because of

their reputation. Others do that because of their industry.

Back in the 1960s, being in plastics was a ticket to the future.

The industry was booming, with new applications being devel-

— 263 —

YOUR CAREER

oped every day. In the ’70s, because of the energy crisis, you had

job offers coming out of your ears if you had a degree or work

experience in geology. And of course, people who got involved in

high technology and finance in the late ’80s and ’90s had a good,

long run of it.

At speaking engagements, I am often asked what industries I

would recommend to college grads and MBAs today. I tell them to

look into companies doing business at the intersection of biology

and information technology. And I suggest they learn everything

they can about China because it will permeate every aspect of

business in their lifetimes.

This reminds me of something said by a very successful execu-

tive I know of who served in the air force before he began his

business career. He is frequently contacted by headhunters, and he

says his first questions about a potential job are just like those he

asked as a fighter pilot assessing situational awareness.

“When I was on a mission, I would always ask, ‘What’s our al-

titude? What are the weather conditions ahead? Where is the

enemy?’ I think it’s the same thing in business,”he says. “You need

to know the same kinds of things about a job or an industry. Are

you getting yourself into a turnaround situation? Are the eco-

nomics fatal? How tough is the competition? Has the industry

peaked, or is it just getting off the ground? Are the expectations of

me reasonable or am I walking into a time bomb?”

Now, you can ask these questions

and find that the job you like has a

Every job you take is problematic future. The airline in-

a gamble that could dustry has very tough economics

and relatively low pay, especially for

increase your options

managerial positions. The hospital-

or shut them down.

ity and publishing industries are

likewise not very flush.

— 264 —

THE RIGHT JOB

Still, some people just love the romance of air travel, the adven-

ture of the hotel business, and the excitement of creating books. If

you are one of them, of course you should enter these fields; just