SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Hiring Process
SUMMARY: The text discusses three acid tests that candidates must pass before being considered for a job, focusing on integrity, intelligence, and passion.
KEYWORDS: hiring, integrity, intelligence, passion
---

— 81 —

YOUR COMPANY

Because hiring right is so important—and so challenging—

there is a lot of territory to cover in this chapter.

■ First, we’ll take a short look at three acid tests

you need to conduct before you even think about

hiring someone.

■ Next we’ll lay out the 4-E (and 1-P) frame-

work for hiring that I have used for many years. It’s

named after the four characteristics it contains,

which all begin with E, a nice coincidence.There’s a

P (for passion) in there too.

■ After that, we’ll explore the four special charac-

teristics you look for when hiring leaders. The

previous chapter was about what you do when you

are a leader—the rules of leadership, as it were.This

section is about how to hire leaders in the first

place.

■ Finally, I’ll answer six FAQs (frequently asked

questions) about hiring that I get during my

travels—plus that “impossible” one from that

insurance executive in San Diego.After all, I’ve

had a couple of years to think it over!

THE ACID TESTS

Before you even think about assessing people for a job, they have

to pass through three screens. Remember, these tests should come

at the outset of the hiring process, not right before you’re about to

sign on the dotted line.

— 82 —

HIRING

The first test is for integrity.

Integrity is something of a fuzzy Over time, many of us

word, so let me tell you my defini-

develop an instinct for

tion. People with integrity tell the

integrity. Just don’t be

truth, and they keep their word.

They take responsibility for past afraid to use it.

actions, admit mistakes, and fix

them. They know the laws of their

country, industry, and company—both in letter and spirit—and

abide by them. They play to win the right way, by the rules.

How can you test for integrity? If a candidate comes from

inside your company, that’s pretty easy. You’ve seen him or her in

action or know someone who has. From the outside, you need to

rely on reputation and reference checks. But those aren’t fool-

proof. You also have to rely on your gut. Does the person seem

real? Does she openly admit mistakes? Does he talk about his life

with equal measures of candor and discretion?

Over time, many of us develop an instinct for integrity. Just

don’t be afraid to use it.

The second test is for intelligence. That doesn’t mean a per-

son must have read Shakespeare or can solve complex physics

problems. It does mean the candidate has a strong dose of intellec-

tual curiosity, with a breadth of knowledge to work with or lead

other smart people in today’s complex world.

Sometimes people confuse education with intelligence. I cer-

tainly did that at the start of my career. But with experience,

I learned that smart people come from every kind of school. I’ve

known many extremely bright people from places like Harvard

and Yale. But some of the best executives I’ve worked with have

attended places like Bryant University in Providence, Rhode

Island, and the University of Dubuque, in Iowa.

GE was lucky to have all these people on its team.

— 83 —

YOUR COMPANY

My point is that a candidate’s education is only a piece of the

picture, especially when it comes to intelligence.

The third ticket to the game is maturity. You can, by the

way, be mature at any age, and immature too. Regardless, there are

certain traits that seem to indicate a person has grown up: the

individual can withstand the heat, handle stress and setbacks, and,

alternatively, when those wonderful moments arise, enjoy success

with equal parts of joy and humility. Mature people respect the

emotions of others. They feel confident but are not arrogant.

In fact, mature people usually have a sense of humor, especially

about themselves!

As with integrity, there is no real test for maturity. Again,

you have to rely on reference checks, reputation, and most impor-

tant, gut.

THE 4-E (AND 1-P) FRAMEWORK

The 4-E framework took years for me to solidify. No doubt other

people have other frameworks that work very well in building

winning teams. But I’ve found this one was consistently effective,

year after year, across businesses and borders.

The first E is positive energy. We just talked about this

characteristic in the chapter on leadership. It means the ability to

go go go—to thrive on action and relish change. People with pos-

itive energy are generally extroverted and optimistic. They make

conversation and friends easily. They start the day with enthusiasm

and usually end it that way too, rarely seeming to tire in the mid-

dle. They don’t complain about working hard; they love to work.

They also love to play.

People with positive energy just love life.

The second E is the ability to energize others. Positive

energy is the ability to get other people revved up. People who

— 84 —

HIRING

energize can inspire their team to

take on the impossible—and enjoy People with positive

the hell out of doing it. In fact, peo-

energy just love life.

ple would arm wrestle for the

chance to work with them.

Now, energizing others is not just about giving Pattonesque

speeches. It takes a deep knowledge of your business and strong

persuasion skills to make a case that will galvanize others.

A great example of an energizer is Charlene Begley, who

started with GE as a financial management trainee in 1988. After

several years in various jobs, Charlene was selected to run GE’s Six

Sigma program in the transportation business. That’s where her

leadership really began to shine. Galvanized by her intensity, her

team really got its Six Sigma program on the corporate radar

screen.

It’s hard to unpick Charlene’s ability to energize because it’s a

brew of skills all mixed together. She is a great communicator,

who can clearly define objectives. She’s dead serious about work,