SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Mergers and Acquisitions
SUMMARY: The text discusses challenges in integrating cultures and selecting personnel during mergers and acquisitions, highlighting the need for decisive action and an open-minded approach.
KEYWORDS: integration, culture, personnel selection, mergers, acquisitions
---

Fresco notes, “We lost at least a year and maybe more because of

our cultural uncertainty.”

The Case New Holland story is not unique.

Back in 2000, GE tried to buy Honeywell—a deal, as some

might recall, that never received European Union approval. But in

the seven months that we awaited the regulatory OK, teams from

both sides worked hard to merge the two companies.

Part of that process meant looking closely at the progress of

Honeywell’s own merger with AlliedSignal in 1999. The two

companies had been together for a year at that point, so we ex-

pected to see notable progress.

Instead we were shocked to find that AlliedSignal and Honey-

well managers were still “in discussions” about the merged

company’s values and behaviors, and both sides were still pining

for the way they used to do things. The AlliedSignal people had an

aggressive, numbers-driven culture. Honeywell’s managers, how-

ever, liked their company’s more consensus-based approach. The

merged company’s CEO, Mike Bonsignore, was disinclined to

make a choice between the two ways of working. And so, well

after the deal was signed, they still had two distinct companies

operating side by side, with little integration.

— 233 —

YOUR COMPETITION

Integrating at the right speed and with the right level of force-

fulness will always be a balancing act. But when it comes to this

pitfall, at least you know when you’re off track. If ninety days have

passed after the deal is closed and people are still debating impor-

tant matters of strategy and culture, you’ve been too timid. It’s

time to act.

The fifth pitfall is the conqueror syndrome, in which

the acquiring company marches in and installs its own

managers everywhere, undermining one of the rea-

sons for any merger, getting an influx of new talent to

pick from.

If acquirers are often too timid when it comes to integrating

culture and operations, just as often they are too provincial when

it comes to people selection.

By too provincial, I mean many acquirers automatically assume

their people are the better players. They might be, but then again,

they might not. In a merger, you have to approach your new

personnel situation as if a headhunter had just delivered you a list

of fresh players for about every position on your field. If you

simply stick with the going-in team, you could lose better players

for no good reason.

Oh sure, there’s a reason for this behavior, but it’s not good—it’s

just familiarity. Your own people are the devil you know—and

they know you back. They understand your business and its

culture. They know how work gets done your way.

To compound matters, it is simply harder to let go of friends

than strangers. You know their families. You’ve been through

— 234 —

MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

good times and bad. You may have once told them they had long-

term potential with the company. Some may have even worked on

the deal.

It’s hard to say, “You’re not good enough anymore.”

But you just have to remember, one of the great strategic

benefits of a merger is that it allows acquirers to field a team from

a bigger talent pool. That’s a competitive advantage you cannot let

pass. Just be very fair in your severance package and face into the

deed, even if it means saying good-bye to “your own.”

Without doubt, avoiding this pitfall can be challenging.

I cannot count the number of times we swooped into a deal

and installed a GE manager in every leadership position. Most of

the time, we were blissfully unaware of the potential that we had

lost, but one time in particular, we couldn’t be. The cost was too

high.

It happened in 1988, when GE acquired a plastics business

based in West Virginia from BorgWarner. It was the perfect bolt-

on deal, or so we thought. The business we bought included an

ABS engineering plastic product line. We had an engineering

plastics business of our own, albeit in the higher-end products

Lexan and Noryl. The GE Plastics team saw one immediate cost

synergy. All they had to do, they figured, was to get rid of the

BorgWarner sales force and push BorgWarner products through

GE channels.

But there was a problem with the plan. Our sales force was a

group of sharp, button-down types, accustomed to making a tech-

nical sale, convincing engineers to switch from metal to plastic.

The BorgWarner sales force was a different breed. They sold their

less expensive, more commodity-like product to purchasing

agents the old-fashioned way—“belly to belly”—relying on

personal relationships and hefty expense accounts.

— 235 —

YOUR COMPETITION

Our people weren’t very good at

Fight the conqueror that.

It was a disaster. We lost 90 percent

syndrome. Think of a

of BorgWarner’s sales force thanks to

merger as a huge

our conquering mind-set, and our

talent grab. ABS market share dropped about

fifteen points. The acquisition stum-

bled, and it never did reach its full

potential. ABS eventually turned out to be a worthwhile addition

to the GE market basket, but at far too high a price.

We should have known better. Two years earlier, we had gotten

the people selection process right when we acquired RCA.

On every level, the RCA deal was a win for us. With the

acquisition of NBC, it met one of our strategic goals of moving

into services, and at the same time, it strengthened our manufac-

turing base with the addition of three businesses we were already

in, semiconductors, aerospace, and TV sets.

In all three of these industrial cases, we took advantage of the

enhanced talent pool made possible by the acquisition and picked

RCA leaders to lead the merged organizations.

GE’s TV manufacturing business, for instance, was being run at

the time of the deal by a smart young CEO who had come into

the company through our business development staff. He was an