SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Work-Life Balance
SUMMARY: This text discusses the challenges of work-life balance, especially for working mothers, and the need to prioritize and make trade-offs to manage various demands.
KEYWORDS: work-life balance, priorities, working mothers, trade-offs, time management
---

balance problems and continually turn to the

company for help get pigeonholed as ambivalent,

entitled, uncommitted, or incompetent—or all of

the above.

— 316 —

WORK-LIFE BALANCE

5. Even the most accommodating bosses believe that

work-life balance is your problem to solve. In fact,

most know that there are really just a handful of

effective strategies to do that, and they wish you

would use them.

PRIORITY MANAGEMENT

Let’s look at these points one at a time, but first, a few words on

what work-life balance really means.

It is no coincidence that work-life balance entered the public

domain about the time that women—and especially mothers in

dual-career households—started working in force. Suddenly, there

was a whole group of people juggling two mutually exclusive and

colliding demands: being great parents and great employees at the

same time. Especially in the early days, the struggles to make

everything work were messy and painful for many working

moms, and their stories were filled with guilt, ambivalence, and

anger.

Today, work-life balance remains largely the purview of work-

ing mothers,in that they are the people most likely to be grappling

with the issue on a daily basis.

But without question, work-life balance as a concept has

grown and expanded. It isn’t just about how mothers can make

time for all the demands in their lives. It’s about how all of us

manage our lives and allocate our time—it’s about priorities and

values.

Basically, work-life balance has become a debate about how

much we allow work to consume us.

Now, you can be like me and my type, and make work your

major priority. Or you can attempt a kind of literal balance, with

— 317 —

YOUR CAREER

work and life each getting 50 percent of your time, or you can go

surfing 80 percent of your time and work 20. There are as many

work-life balance equations as there are individuals.

But no matter what balance you choose, you’ll have to make

trade-offs. After all, as I’ve noted before in this book, it is a rare and

lucky person who can have it all in life, all at the same time. Usu-

ally, that’s not the case. Working parents who want to be very in-

volved in their kids’ lives, for instance, often have to give up some

of their ambition. People who put business success first most likely

have to give up some level of intimacy with their kids.

Work-life balance is a swap—a deal you’ve made with yourself

about what you keep and what you give up.

I remember one Q & A session with about five hundred exec-

utives in Melbourne, Australia, where the moderator was Maxine

McKew, one of the country’s most respected newscasters. The

session was moving along on all the usual business topics for about

an hour when a woman in the audience stood and said, “Could

you tell me, Mr.Welch, why must all women who succeed in busi-

ness act like hard-assed, bullheaded men? When will we see the

day that every female CEO doesn’t have to be like Margaret

Thatcher?”

I can’t recall my exact answer, but I know I said something very

politically incorrect right off the bat about how most women

slowed down their career advance-

ments by having children, and while

Work-life balance is a

I thought that was a worthy choice,

swap—a deal you’ve it wasn’t going to get them to the

boardroom very quickly.

made with yourself

This comment enraged the

about what you keep

questioner, who shot back, “Why

and what you give up.

must women give their lives up to

get ahead while men do not?

— 318 —

WORK-LIFE BALANCE

Women should not have to make all

the sacrifices—should they?” “I chose to put my career

Some of the men in the audience

first,” she said, “and I

groaned, and one called out, “My

cannot blame anyone

wife did it.” Another one shouted,

“Hey, we all make sacrifices.” for my happiness or

Up on stage, I shrugged. “I can- lack thereof.”

not give you a good answer to your

question,” I said. “I’m not sure that

pausing on the corporate ladder is a

‘sacrifice’ to the mothers who make that choice.”

Just then, Maxine stepped in. To be honest, I expected a real

slam, but her answer surprised me.

“Women do give something up. It’s biology,” she said. “Let me

tell you what I gave up. I wanted my career. And so I never had

children. Maybe I would be able to do it with children now. Still,

twenty-five years ago, when I was entering broadcasting, it just

wasn’t possible to achieve the highest levels and raise babies along

the way. It was my choice. Of course I wanted children. But I

chose to put my career first, and I cannot blame anyone for my

happiness or lack thereof.”

You could have heard a pin drop. In the silence, someone raised

his hand and changed the subject with a question about the Aus-

tralian economy.

I tell this story because you simply can’t talk about work-life

balance without acknowledging that it’s so contentious because

it’s so personal—and so universal.

Everyone these days makes work-life balance decisions—

from working mothers and fathers to single people who want to

write a novel or volunteer to build homes for Habitat for Hu-

manity.

Work-life balance means making choices and trade-offs, and

— 319 —

YOUR CAREER

living with their consequences. It’s that simple—and that com-

plex.

Just remember, you are not in this alone. Your company also

feels the impact of your choices and actions.

And with that in mind, let’s take a work-life balance reality

check from your boss’s point of view.

1. Your boss’s top priority is competitiveness. Of

course he wants you to be happy, but only inasmuch as

it helps the company win. In fact, if he is doing his job

right, he is making your job so exciting that your per-