SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Work-Life Balance
SUMMARY: High-performing employees are able to manage work-life balance effectively, while underperformers tend to struggle and ask for more accommodations.
KEYWORDS: work-life balance, employee performance, career advancement
---

people, mothers and otherwise, who have full and busy personal

lives—achieved without griping about how hard balance is and

how much help they need from their companies to attain it.

The fact that these people exist makes it very hard, in the real

world, to be a work-life moaner.

And that’s why most work-life moaners eventually get margin-

alized. Sometimes it takes a while because companies want to be

politically correct, and they tiptoe around people who publicly

identify themselves as work-life poster children. But with time,

— 329 —

YOUR CAREER

people who can’t seem to get their work-life challenges in order

or continually ask the company for special arrangements get held

back or pushed aside.

Not surprisingly, work-life moaners tend to be a phenomenon

of below-average performers.

Here’s my theory on why.

You almost never hear people in the top 20 percent of any or-

ganization complaining about work-life balance. That fact is

surely linked to their intrinsic abilities. At home, as at work, they

are so smart, organized, and competent that they have figured out

and implemented sustainable solutions. They have installed, as

Susan Peters calls them, “home processes” of backup resources and

contingency plans that take a lot of the uncertainty out of juggling

situations.

Below-average performers, by contrast, have three strikes

against them. First, they tend to be less expert at organizing their

time and sorting through priorities, not just at work, but at home.

Second, because of their middling performance, these people have

been told they have limited chances of advancement. That lowers

their self-confidence and raises their ambivalence. And finally,

they’re not as financially secure as people in the top 20, giving

them fewer resources to buy work-life balance with nannies or

personal trainers or whatever. Put all three dynamics together, and

it’s no wonder underperformers struggle publicly with work-life

dilemmas and ask for help so often.

As the HR director at a New York company told me, “It’s al-

ways my weakest people who want the most flexibility from the

company. That’s frustrating—to put it mildly.” (Not surpris-

ingly, he also said, “Don’t use my name if you quote me on

this!”)

So before you open your mouth a fifth time to ask for limited

travel and Thursday mornings off, or occupy your boss’s time with

— 330 —

WORK-LIFE BALANCE

concerns over your child-care arrangements, know that you are

making a statement, and no matter what words you use, it sounds

like, “I’m not really into this.”

5. Even the most accommodating bosses believe that

work-life balance is your problem to solve. In fact,

most of them know that there are really just a handful

of effective strategies to do that, and they wish you

would use them.

Look, only you can figure out your values and priorities. Only you

know what trade-offs you are willing to make, and only you can

envision their consequences. Only you can organize your sched-

ule and your life, at work and at home, for the balance you have

chosen.

That is why, at the end of the day, most bosses correctly believe

work-life balance is your problem to solve, not theirs.

Now, some managers are very adept at helping their people go

through the process of sorting out priorities and selecting trade-

offs, and even in coming up with scheduling solutions that work

equally well for their employees and the company. In fact, they see

that activity as an integral part of their jobs.

But helping people find work-life balance is really a special

skill. Not every manager has it, and not every manager wants it.

Some managers feel, “What the heck am I supposed to be now, a

mother and a therapist? Forget about it!”

But many do not. In my speaking and consulting engagements

over the past several years, I’d estimate about half of all managers

want to actively work with their employees to help them achieve

some form of balance. That’s a lot more than five years ago.

— 331 —

YOUR CAREER

There can be no question that negotiating work-life balance

arrangements adds a layer of complexity to a manager’s job. But

your manager should welcome the challenge. It gives him another

tool to motivate and retain great performers, just like salary,

bonuses, promotions, and all other kinds of recognition.

But along the way, you can and should help yourself. The

work-life balance debate has now been out there long enough

that a handful of best practices have emerged. Most experienced

bosses know about these techniques. In fact, many use them, and

they wish you would too.

Here they are.

Best practice 1: Keep your head in whatever game

you’re at. We’ve already established that work wants 150 percent

of you, and so does home. To alleviate angst and distraction, and to

enhance your performance no matter what you are doing, be fo-

cused on where you are and whom you are with.

In other words, compartmentalize.

No one wins when you routinely run your family’s carpool lo-

gistics from your office phone or e-mail customers from the soc-

cer field.

Compartmentalizing isn’t easy, obviously. Sometimes you must

call a customer from the gym or check on a sick child between

meetings. But the more you blend your life, the more mixed up,

distracted, and overwhelmed you feel and act.

Technology is a real two-edged sword on this. On the one

hand, you can be home for dinner three nights a week when you

have the ability to check e-mail on your BlackBerry from 8:00 to

10:00 p.m. On the other, you can give yourself a real ulcer by en-

couraging your office to call your cell phone while you are skiing.

The absolute ideal is to draw crisp boundaries around your ac-

tivities. Then, when you are at work, keep your head in work

completely, and when you are at home or play, keep your head

— 332 —

WORK-LIFE BALANCE