SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Job Transition Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges and strategies for transitioning to a new job after being let go, emphasizing the importance of owning the situation, focusing on the future, and finding the right fit.
KEYWORDS: job transition, resignation, job search, self-reflection, career growth
---

is a tricky matter. It makes a lot of

personal reasons” really sense to take some time off after

means. you are let go—say, a month or

two—to reflect and compose

yourself. On the other hand, the

longer you wait, the more likely you are to start doubting yourself,

and the more likely it is that prospective employers will think

something is wrong. You just don’t want any hole in your résumé

to be too gaping.

Prospective employers will, of course, ask you about why you

left your last job. Come right out and say you were asked to move

on. Every manager in the world knows what “I resigned” or “I left

for personal reasons” really means.

Just as important, take responsibility for your departure, like my

friend Charlie did in our conversation. His ownership of the situ-

ation made him infinitely more appealing than the typical kind of

defense I heard a hundred times. “My boss was really difficult” or

“They don’t care about customers as much as I do” or my favorite,

“It was all politics there. It never mattered what you did; all that

mattered was who you knew.”

Compare that to Charlie’s approach—even recognizing that he

is on the far end of rationality! When he got back into the job

market, he didn’t blame a soul but himself. He told interviewers

what he learned from the experience, and what he would do

differently in his next job. “I’m determined to be more externally

focused from now on,” he said, “and I will definitely move faster

on underperforming people. One of my objectives is to prove I

don’t make the same mistakes twice.”

— 274 —

THE RIGHT JOB

If you’ve been let go, you never want to present yourself with a

swagger. But you do need to project realism and optimism. Draw

on your reservoir of confidence. Say what happened, say what

you’ve learned, and never be afraid to ask, “Just give me a chance.”

Someone will.

■

Due to my vintage, I belong to a very small club—people who

have spent their whole careers at one company. When I got my

degree from graduate school, in 1961, that was the norm. Today,

statistics show that college graduates change companies multiple

times in their first decade out and newly minted MBAs do the

same.

I can’t say if that’s good or bad, it just is. People are very hungry

to hurry up and find the right job.

Here are some thoughts, though.

First, finding the right job takes time and experimentation and

patience. After all, you have to work at something for a while

before you know if you can even do it, let alone if it feels right.

Second, finding the right job gets easier and easier the better

you are. Maybe that sounds harsh, but it’s just reality. At the end of

the day, talented people have their pick of opportunities. The right

jobs find them.

So if you really want to find a great job, choose something you

love to do, make sure you’re with people you like, and then give it

your all.

If you do that, you’re sure to have a great job—and you’ll never

really work another day in your life.

— 275 —

7

1

Getting Promoted

SORRY, NO SHORTCUTS

THE PREVIOUS CHAPTER of this book was about

finding your right job. This chapter is about getting your

next one.

Now, not everyone in business wants to get a bigger and better

job, but a lot of people do. If you’re among them, this chapter is for

you, whether you are hungry for your first promotion or your

fifth.

I was there once. When I started my career at age twenty-four,

I had no idea where I was going or how I was going to get there,

but I was filled with ambition.

The drive to make something of myself had started pretty

young. I had my first job at age ten, as a caddy at a country club

near my hometown of Salem,Massachusetts. Through high school

and college, I held one job after another, from bartender to teach-

ing assistant. By the time I graduated from the University of Illi-

nois with a PhD in chemical engineering in 1961, I was eager for

the real thing.

— 277 —

YOUR CAREER

The job GE offered me seemed like a good deal. I would be

working in the lab developing a new plastic, and if it succeeded, I

saw a chance to get out in the field and sell it. Best of all, the job

was in Massachusetts, and it paid the most of any offer—$10,500.

Believe me, I wasn’t thinking about a career at that point. If I

had, I would have surely taken the offer I had received from

Exxon, where a chemical engineering degree really meant some-

thing. But forget it—Exxon was in Texas! At that point in my life,

the fact that I had gone to school in Illinois already made me feel

like I had traveled halfway around the world.

Over the next thirteen years at GE, I got four promotions.

Each one felt terrific. I liked having more responsibility, making

bigger deals, building bigger plants, and managing more people. It

was really only in 1973 that it dawned on me that I had a shot at

the company’s top job—and that I wanted it too. In an act of com-

plete cockiness, I put that down on my performance evaluation

under the question about career goals.

Eight years later, I got my wish.

So, how did that happen? How does a person get promoted?

The first answer is luck. All careers, no matter how scripted

they appear, are shaped by some element of pure chance.

Sometimes a person just happens to be in the right place at the

right time, and he meets someone—at an airport or a party, for

instance—and a career door swings

open. We’ve all heard stories like