SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Leadership and Legacy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the author's thoughts on leadership, legacy, and personal life, emphasizing the importance of helping others grow and succeed.
KEYWORDS: leadership, legacy, personal life, candor, meritocracy
---

me great friends that I’ve enjoyed for decades and always will, and

all the fun of competing.

But when you can’t play, you can’t play—and amazingly, the

world doesn’t even end.

And finally, this question was posed by an audience member at a

management conference in Frankfurt attended by about twenty-five

hundred people:

Do you think you will go to heaven?

After a few seconds of stunned silence, my first answer to this one

was, “Well, I sure hope that’s long-range planning!”

But after the audience stopped laughing—they were as sur-

prised by the question as I was—the man who asked this question

made it clear that he wanted to understand what I considered my

legacy.

— 358 —

THE QUESTIONS THAT ALMOST GOT AWAY

First off, I hate the word legacy. It just sounds so arrogant. Pres-

idents and prime ministers have legacies. I ran a company and

wrote a book or two.

But here we are at the end of this book, and the question did

get asked, so I’ll attempt an answer.

If there is anything I would like to be remembered for it is that

I helped people understand that leadership is helping other people

grow and succeed. To repeat myself, leadership is not just about

you. It’s about them.

I would also like to be remembered as a huge advocate of can-

dor and meritocracy, and believing everyone deserves a chance.

And I’d like to be remembered for trying to make the case that

you can never let yourself be a victim.

Now, it is no secret that I’ve made plenty of mistakes in my

career. I’ve made some bad acquisitions, hired some wrong people,

and moved too slowly on some opportunities. And that is just a

fraction of the list.

As for my personal life, I have four great children and nine

terrific grandchildren. My love and admiration for them cannot

be expressed with words, and their happy, fulfilling lives today

give me no end of pleasure. I had two marriages, however, that

did not work out. Life goes on and usually for the better, but no

one lives through two divorces and feels proud that they hap-

pened.

So, as for heaven, who knows? I’m sure not perfect, but if there

are any points given out for caring about people with every fiber

of your being and giving life all you’ve got every day, then I sup-

pose I have a shot.

Given the choice, of course, I’d rather not find out anytime

soon!

There’s so much more to do.

— 359 —

Acknowledgments

BUSINESS IS ABOUT PEOPLE. In fact, life is only peo-

ple—family, friends, colleagues, bosses, teachers, coaches,

neighbors. At the end of the day, it is only people that matter.

People made this book. First, there were the thousands of men

and women around the world who, as my dedication says, cared

about business enough to raise their hands and ask the questions

that fill these pages. I thank them for candidly sharing their stories,

talking openly about the ever-changing challenges of work, and

for helping me codify my thinking about how to get it right.

I am also deeply grateful to the people who took an hour or

two (and often more) to talk with me about their experiences so

that the ideas in this book could be filled with life: Bill Harrison

and Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase; Steve Klimkowski of

Northwestern Memorial HealthCare; George Tamke, a partner at

Clayton, Dubilier & Rice; David Novak, who runs Yum! Brands;

Bob Nardelli of The Home Depot; Robert Bagby of A.G. Ed-

wards; Perry Ruddick, the retired vice-chairman of Smith Barney;

Maxine McKew of the Australian Broadcasting Company; Kevin

Sharer of Amgen; Jimmy Dunne of Sandler O’Neill & Partners;

my old friend Paolo Fresco, former vice-chairman of GE and

retired CEO of Fiat; Gerry Roche of Heidrick & Struggles;

Joel Klein, chancellor of the New York City public schools; Jim

McNerney of 3M; Paolo Monferino of Case New Holland; Dara

Khosrowshahi of Expedia; and Chris Navetta of U.S. Steel; and

from GE, Bill Conaty, Gary Reiner, Susan Peters, Dennis Dam-

merman, Mark Little, John Krenicki, and Charlene Begley. Bob

Nelson, my financial analyst at GE for many years, was a helpful

reader along the way.

Several people don’t appear by name in this book, but their

ideas were critical in shaping its content. Linda Gosden Robinson,

president of Robinson Lerer & Montgomery, shared her consider-

able experience with us for the chapter on crisis management. For

the chapter on work-life balance, I am indebted to Professor Stew

Friedman of the Wharton School, and Claudio Fernández-Aráoz,

of the executive search firm Egon Zehnder. The chapter on merg-

ers and acquisitions was helped by a long, insightful conversation

with M & A expert David Fubini of McKinsey & Company. And

my (tiny) newfound knowledge of philosophy is totally thanks to

the insights of Nancy Bauer, a professor at Tufts University.

This book started with two pages of scribbled notes about

what it could be. The finished product in your hands is thanks to a

stellar group of people, most notably the 4Es-and-a-P people at

HarperCollins: our wonderful editor, Leah Spiro, whose probing

mind and passion for this book never ebbed; Jane Friedman, a

fervent believer and unflagging advocate from the get-go; and

Marion Maneker, whose deep wisdom guided us all the way. We

are also grateful to the terrific team that marketed this book; Joe

Tessitore, whose savvy, energy, and decisiveness brought this book

home, as well as Brian Murray, Stephen Hanselman, Paul

— 361 —

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Olsewski, Keith Pfeffer, and Larry Hughes; the book’s designer,

Leah Carlson-Stanisic; its copy editor, Anne Greenberg; and Knox

Huston, its editorial assistant. Our agent, Helen Rees, was a dear

friend and enthusiastic supporter, and Megan LaMothe did tena-

cious duty as our fact checker.

My assistant, Rosanne Badowski, read every draft of this book,

challenged the content, picked apart phrases, and made every