SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Hiring Criteria
SUMMARY: This text discusses hiring criteria, emphasizing the importance of energy, passion, and self-confidence in candidates, as well as the ability to train for other skills.
KEYWORDS: hiring, candidate evaluation, energy, passion, self-confidence
---

As you crank it up, see if the candidate keeps saying, “Yes, yes, yes!”

If he does, you should worry that he has few other options, if any.

You may even be his sole hope of

employment.

Be impressed if the candidate

I particularly liked the

starts peppering you back with hard

people who had had the

questions like, “How soon do you

expect the results to be achieved?” wind knocked clear out

or “Do I have enough people to

of them but proved they

make this happen?” Be even more

could run even harder in

impressed if she asks you about the

the next race.

company’s values. The difficulty of a

job will bring good candidates to

— 91 —

YOUR COMPANY

the edge of their seats with curiosity and firm self-confidence, not

overenthusiastic acquiescence.

Finally, after all the talking is done, don’t check just the refer-

ences the candidate gives you. Call around—but you know that.

When you do, don’t allow the conversation to be perfunctory.

Stop yourself from doing something natural—just hearing the

good news you want to hear. Force yourself to challenge anything

that sounds like lawyer-speak. Use your chits. Promise you won’t

repeat what you hear. Doing that, you’ll get what I did more times

than I can count: “You’ve got to be kidding! We were happy to get

rid of that guy!”

2. I just need to hire someone for technical expertise.

Why do I need to bother with the four Es? Obviously, hiring

a person who is both a technical star and demonstrates the four Es

would be very nice! But if you’re really just desperate for a person

with a certain specialty—say, a computer programmer or a re-

search scientist—then I’d be satisfied with energy and passion,

along with a bucketful of raw intelligence, great prior experience,

and, of course, integrity. You need that with any person you hire.

3.What if someone is missing one or two of the Es? Can

training fill in the gaps? Any candidate you hire in a managerial

role must have the first two Es, positive energy and the ability to

energize. Those are personality traits, and I don’t think they can be

trained into someone. And frankly, I would encourage you not to

hire any team member—manager or not—without a good dose of

positive energy. People without it just enervate an organization.

Edge and execution, on the other hand, can be developed with

experience and management training. Time after time, I’ve seen

people learn how to make tough calls and deliver results.

The GE audit staff offers numerous examples. Every year, it

brings on board about 120 people, primarily from GE’s financial

management training program, but about a quarter from other

— 92 —

HIRING

functions, such as engineering and manufacturing. The typical

new hire in auditing has about three years of experience with the

company.

Their first year, these “new kids” travel to GE businesses

around the world as members of three- to six-person audit teams.

After twelve weeks of grueling analysis, they return to the head-

quarters of the business they’ve just audited to present their find-

ings to the CFO and CEO. Often, they’ve got plenty to tell, some

of it not so pretty.

Early on, these young auditors are tentative, holding their com-

ments while the more senior members of the team run the show.

But over time, usually three to five years, I’ve seen these auditors

develop an edge that is razor sharp. It comes from observing their

more experienced teammates, lots of coaching, and plenty of

practice. They also develop an incredible knack for execution.

After all, they are responsible for making sure their recommenda-

tions have been implemented. If they haven’t, all hell breaks

loose—and that’s a good teacher.

The proof that edge and execution can be learned is clear: sev-

eral CEOs of GE’s biggest businesses and a vice-chairman are vet-

erans of the audit staff development process.

4. Can a person get ahead in business without the four

Es or passion? Absolutely yes.

A person can reach great heights just by being very smart. Or

just by the sheer ability to get things done. We can all think of ex-

amples of these individuals. Many are the inventors and entrepre-

neurs of the world, and usually they run their own shows.

But within an organization, I just haven’t seen too many who

have sustained success, especially as leaders, without the four Es

and passion.

5. I’ve always tried to hire people who can hit the ground

running.What do you think about that as a decisive factor?

— 93 —

YOUR COMPANY

When hiring, you have to make a trade-off. Do you hire someone

to get a job done fast, or do you hire him based on his potential for

growth? My advice is: try to pick the second option.

I didn’t always feel that way.

The first time I hired managers was when I was twenty-eight

years old and I needed to build a functional team. I hired a PhD

who was a peer of mine to be manager of R & D. For marketing, I

hired a good fellow who was smart and was there, and for manu-

facturing manager, my selection was an experienced hand. I’d seen

him in action in another part of the same division.

Although I didn’t think of it at the time, most of these people

had no future beyond the jobs I had just put them in. Our business

was growing rapidly, and they didn’t have the skills to grow with it.

In fact, by the time the business was four years old, all of them

were gone and we were filling the positions again.

With my first shot at hiring managers, I didn’t know any better.

I just wanted to get the job done. But I eventually learned that it

pays to go for the high-potentials who can grow with the business