SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Corporate Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how Jeff Immelt, the CEO of GE, navigated the company through modest annual earnings growth and made significant changes to the portfolio to position GE for future growth.
KEYWORDS: Jeff Immelt, GE, Corporate Strategy, Portfolio Management, Acquisitions
---

fully navigated the company to modest annual earnings growth

from 2001 until 2004.

At the same time, Jeff has made significant changes to the port-

folio that positioned GE for future growth. He made major media,

medical, financial services, and infrastructure acquisitions, while

disposing of slower-growth industrial and insurance assets. He

reinvigorated GE’s research and development activities with large

— 348 —

THE QUESTIONS THAT ALMOST GOT AWAY

facility investments in Munich, Shanghai, and Schenectady, New

York. And Jeff has put enormous emphasis on diversity at GE,

with immediate and positive results.

Several times in this book,I’ve said that change is good.Jeff sure

proves that point.

As for how and why I picked Jeff, I just don’t ever talk about

that. There were three terrific people to choose from—Jeff, Bob

Nardelli, and Jim McNerney. There is no reason to conduct a

public autopsy on the process—it’s past. Both Bob and Jim have

gone on to have spectacular runs in their new roles—Bob as CEO

of The Home Depot and Jim at 3M.

What I will say is that at the end of the day, the board and I

picked whom we believed to be the best leader for GE, and Jeff is

making us all look very good.

This question was posed at a management conference in

Reykjavik, Iceland, and during a twelve-person business dinner

in London:

What’s the future of the European Union?

Long-term, it’s very good.

With all the sound and fury about China, some people see the

EU as a huge, lumbering bureaucracy that will never get its collec-

tive act together fast enough to reach its full potential in the global

economy. Maybe that’s true in the short run, but in time, the EU

will prove naysayers wrong.

Remember, the economic EU is less than fifteen years old. It’s

already come a long way. Imagine trying to put together the fifty

states of the United States today. Now imagine doing that if each

state had operated for centuries with a separate government, set of

laws, language, currency, and culture, as the members of the EU

— 349 —

TYING UP LOOSE ENDS

have. That the EU has done so well in so short a time is actually

sort of amazing.

Without question, the EU still has a way to go before it realizes

the economic hopes and dreams of its supporters. But its current

statistics are enough to give you a sense of the potential to be un-

leashed. With twenty-five countries, the EU has 450 million peo-

ple, 50 percent more than the United States, and a GDP of $11

trillion, about the same as the United States, two and a half times

Japan, and about seven times China.

These numbers are impressive, but they’ll only get better as the

EU feels the impact of its newest members, Poland, Hungary,

Slovakia, the Czech Republic, and the other nations of “New

Europe.” In the past decade, from Budapest to Bratislava, from

Prague to Warsaw, I’ve seen the excitement, optimism—and the

remarkable achievements—in these countries. A new generation

of entrepreneurs and small-business people are thirsting for

opportunity and success. Their governments have responded in

kind, reducing taxes and providing other probusiness incentives.

The result has been significant economic growth, especially in

comparison to what’s going on in Old Europe.

Yes, Old Europe has problems and a long history. Brussels is

filled with bureaucrats, and the individual governments of many

countries are fighting tooth and nail to hang on to their hard-

earned sovereignty. With their entrenched cultural traditions,

France and Germany in particular

are lukewarm about the EU, and

The paralyzing weight of often act with blatant self-interest.

But these problems are not in-

socialism will gradually

surmountable. Washington, Tokyo,

give way, and the EU will

and Beijing have plenty of bureau-

move steadily forward. crats too. And as new generations of

political leaders emerge across

— 350 —

THE QUESTIONS THAT ALMOST GOT AWAY

Europe, and the leadership of the EU itself gains increasing stature

with every passing year, the pull of parochial, old-economic-order

governments will give way. For example, the French government

recently began to ease its rigid support of the thirty-five-hour

week and is now proposing that companies be allowed to negoti-

ate directly with employees about work schedules.

In time—and perhaps sooner than many expect—global com-

petitive pressures and the energy of New Europe will have a

powerful combined effect. The paralyzing weight of socialism will

gradually give way, and the EU will move steadily forward, fueled

by an ever-increasing acceptance of capitalism.

This question came at a technology and innovation conference

in Las Vegas that spanned three days and featured about twenty

speakers. I was one of them.

How do you think corporate boards will change

because of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act?

This question, which I heard in various forms and in many loca-

tions, including Australia and Europe, reflects a growing attention

on governance, a topic for discussion that used to be reserved for

shareholder meetings and business school classrooms.

Then, of course, came the postbubble corporate scandals, and

people began to ask, “Where the heck were the boards in all these

messes? Why didn’t they see the funny business?”

Very quickly, laws and regulations were passed to make boards

and senior executives more accountable for any corruption that

might occur on their watch. In general these rules, such as the

Sarbanes-Oxley Act, are a good thing, necessary to restore eco-

nomic confidence.

But laws will never guarantee good corporate governance.

— 351 —

TYING UP LOOSE ENDS

There is no way that a board’s finance committee, comprised of a

finance professor, an accountant, and several busy CEOs, all from

far-flung locations, can spend a couple of days every month study-

ing a company’s books and verify that everything is on the

up-and-up. Imagine being a board member of a multinational

bank. You have people trading everything, swapping Japanese yen

for euros in London, and others betting on U.S. commodity