SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Corporate Diversity
SUMMARY: The text discusses the author's opposition to quotas for corporate boards, advocating instead for a meritocratic approach to promoting diversity.
KEYWORDS: diversity, quotas, meritocracy, corporate boards, promoting talent
---

Pick the latter. You can’t win wringing your hands.

This question was posed by an audience member in London,

at a conference attended by about three thousand middle and senior

managers:

Norway just passed a law mandating that half of

every corporate board be comprised of women. What is

your opinion of that?

It’s ridiculous.

Obviously, I’m not against women directors. They’ve made

major contributions to thousands of boards around the world. In

— 345 —

TYING UP LOOSE ENDS

fact, one of the best directors I’ve ever known is a woman who

served on the GE board, G. G. Michelson, the former director of

human resources at R. H. Macy & Co. and past head of Columbia

University’s board of trustees, whose people insights and general

wisdom guided me for two decades.

Nevertheless, I just don’t like quotas in the boardroom or in the

office. Winning companies are meritocracies. They practice

differentiation, making a clear distinction between top, middle,

and bottom performers. This system is candid and fair, and it’s the

most effective way for an organization to field the best team.

Quotas undermine meritocracies. They artificially push some

people ahead, independent of qualifications. That can be demoti-

vating to the top performers who are passed over, and it doesn’t do

much for results, either, when unprepared people are thrust into

important jobs.

So what does work?

Return for a minute to the “Getting Promoted” chapter; its

advice is color- and gender-blind. If you want to get promoted,

your best bet is to overdeliver on your results, manage your subor-

dinates as carefully as you manage your boss, get on the radar

screen by supporting major initiatives early, relish the input of lots

of mentors, and always, always have a positive, high-energy

approach to life and work. At the same time, don’t make your boss

use his or her political capital to champion you. And when set-

backs occur, and they will, don’t let them break your stride.

I’m not saying women and minorities haven’t had a tough go

of it in the business world. They have, and they do need mecha-

nisms to give them a higher profile in the system.

One such mechanism is diversity groups, like GE’s Women’s

Network or its African American Forum. These groups have

created an opportunity for successful women and minority exec-

utives to serve as role models. Just as important, they provide a set-

— 346 —

THE QUESTIONS THAT ALMOST GOT AWAY

ting to talk about the ways women

and minorities can increase their The only quota that I

experience and skills, and thus their

ever thought worked

visibility in an organization. They

was the exposure quota.

promote the concept that success is

a function of talent, energy, and

drive—just as meritocracies are.

But the whole subject of diversity is more nuanced and com-

plicated than I am making it out to be.

At GE, the African American Forum was a grassroots effort

that started in 1990. It was bumping along without a lot of

momentum until a senior vice president, Lloyd Trotter, grabbed it

by the neck and gave it a whole new energy with seminars, con-

ferences, and mentoring programs. With Lloyd in charge, every

African American in the company wanted to get on board, and all

of Lloyd’s peers wanted to jump in to help. The group really took

off, and in time so did promotions for African Americans.

On the other hand, in the mid-1990s I would have dinners

twice a year with high-potential women where we would discuss

the work-life issues they were facing. In 1997, after a long give-

and-take, I challenged the group to create their own version of the

African American Forum. They seemed enthusiastic, but much to

my surprise, over the next few weeks, I found that some of our top

women were balking at the idea. They felt they had made it with-

out any label. They didn’t want to be thought of as successful

women, they wanted to be thought of as successful executives.

After a couple of years, much of that faded, as even the most reluc-

tant grew to enjoy their mentoring and its positive impact on the

progress of women in the company.

Back to the quota question about Norway.

The only quota that I ever thought worked was the exposure

quota we used at GE—that is, we made sure there was a woman or

— 347 —

TYING UP LOOSE ENDS

minority candidate on every slate for the top two thousand jobs.

That guaranteed every manager saw the diverse candidates out

there and that diverse candidates had a shot.

I spent the first half of my tenure as CEO focused on changing

the portfolio and competitiveness. Diversity for me didn’t come

into play until the ’90s.

But today, if you want to field the best team, you simply can’t

afford a delay.

I’ve received this question numerous times, from audiences from

New York to Sydney:

How did you pick your successor, Jeff Immelt, and

how do you think he is doing so far?

I am always thrilled to answer the second part of this question—

it’s such a layup. Jeff is doing amazingly well, even exceeding my

expectations for his leadership. I couldn’t be more proud of where

he has taken GE and where it is going.

Jeff became chairman and CEO of GE on September 10, 2001,

so it was technically his second day on the job when the terrorist

attacks changed the game for everyone. Jeff handled the new

uncertainty of the business environment with characteristic

thoughtfulness and determination. Despite the resulting down-

turns in the airline, power, and reinsurance industries, he master-

fully navigated the company to modest annual earnings growth

from 2001 until 2004.

At the same time, Jeff has made significant changes to the port-

folio that positioned GE for future growth. He made major media,

medical, financial services, and infrastructure acquisitions, while