SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Process Improvement and Quality Control
SUMMARY: The text discusses the applications of Six Sigma, a data-driven approach to improve processes and ensure complex projects are completed successfully.
KEYWORDS: Six Sigma, Process Improvement, Quality Control, Complex Project Management, Data Analysis
---

repetitive tasks—activities that happen over and over again. And

second, it can be used to make sure large, complex projects go

right the first time.

Examples of the first kind of application are a multitude.

Call centers from South Dakota to Delhi use Six Sigma to make

sure the phone is answered after the same number of rings for

each incoming inquiry. Credit card processing facilities use it to

make sure people receive accurate bills on the same day every

month.

The second application of Six Sigma is the territory of engi-

neers and scientists involved in multipart endeavors that some-

times take years to complete. If you’re spending hundreds of

— 248 —

SIX SIGMA

millions of dollars on a new jet engine or a gas turbine, you cannot

afford to figure out process or design inconsistencies late in the

game. Six Sigma is incredibly effective in discovering them on the

drawing board, i.e., the computer screen.

Obviously, the amount of Six Sigma training and education

required depends on where and how you intend to apply it.

For the first application—simple, repetitive activities—the

level of training and education is certainly manageable. In order to

discover the root causes of inconsistencies, people need to know

what kind of information to gather and how to analyze it. The

rigor of this type of training has a terrific side effect. It builds crit-

ical thinking and discipline. That’s one reason why we noticed that

every time a business dove into Six Sigma, not only did its finan-

cial performance improve, so did its management ranks. They all

became better leaders.

The second application is different. It involves a sophisticated

level of training and statistical analysis. I myself have never had this

kind of training, but I know from GE’s very positive experience

with jet engines and turbines that it works.

Make no mistake: Six Sigma is not for every corner of a

company. Jamming it into creative activities, such as writing

advertising copy, new marketing initiatives, or one-off transactions

like investment banking, makes little sense and causes a lot of

wheel-spinning. Six Sigma is meant for and has its most meaning-

ful impact on repetitive internal processes and complex new

product designs.

SO WHY THE PANIC?

At this point, you might be wondering: if Six Sigma is so straight-

forward, why does it cause so much anxiety and confusion?

— 249 —

YOUR COMPETITION

Probably because of the way it is

“We’re off to a good start. initially presented to people.In many

cases, senior management hires out-

We’ve hired several

side experts—scientists, statisticians,

statisticians, and we’re

engineers, or Six Sigma consult-

looking for more.” ants—to preach the new gospel.

I thought to myself: These experts, well-intentioned

though they are, proceed to freak

This poor guy has really

everyone out with complex Power-

drunk the Kool-Aid!

Point slides that only an MIT profes-

sor could love. To make matters

worse, they often present Six Sigma

as a cure-all for every nook and cranny of a company. No activity

is spared.

Several years ago, the CEO of a well-known consumer goods

company visited me to get my take on Six Sigma. “We’re off to a

good start,” he said. “We’ve hired several statisticians from places

like Carnegie Mellon, and we’re looking for more.”

I thought to myself: This poor guy has really drunk the Kool-

Aid!

Not using those words, I told him as much. The statisticians

might be great, I said, but for the relatively straightforward projects

he was looking at, he needed everyone in the company to under-

stand Six Sigma. The brand-new experts were only going to scare

people.

He said he’d think that over, but I think he was just being po-

lite. He saw Six Sigma as the purview of experts, not in the blood

of his company.

■

— 250 —

SIX SIGMA

In time, most people come to understand Six Sigma and where

to use it—and not use it—in an organization. Most of all, they also

come to appreciate its competitive power after they’ve seen it in

action for a few months. At which point, they usually become Six

Sigma missionaries themselves.

So next time you hear Six Sigma mentioned, don’t run for

cover. Once you understand the simple maxim “variation is evil,”

you’re 60 percent of the way to becoming a Six Sigma expert

yourself.

The other 40 percent is getting the evil out.

— 251 —

YOUR CAREER

16. THE RIGHT JOB

Find It and You’ll Never Really Work Again 255

17. GETTING PROMOTED

Sorry, No Shortcuts 277

18. HARD SPOTS

That Damn Boss 299

19. WORK-LIFE BALANCE

Everything You Always Wanted to Know About

Having It All (But Were Afraid to Hear) 313

16

The Right Job

FIND IT AND YOU’LL NEVER

REALLY WORK AGAIN

IT’S SAID that you can only live life forward and understand

it backward. The exact same thing is true about careers.

Every time I ask successful people about their first few jobs, the

immediate reaction is almost always laughter. The chairman and

CEO of Procter & Gamble, A. G. Lafley, thought he was going to

be a professor of Renaissance history. That career plan evaporated

when he dropped out of grad school to join the navy for two

years, and then spent six more running grocery and specialty stores

near a navy base in Tokyo.

Or take Meg Whitman. She started her career as a manage-

ment consultant, then joined Disney to open its first stores in

Japan, then moved to Stride Rite to revive its Keds brand, then

took over the ailing floral company FTD, and then moved to

Hasbro to run its PlaySkool and Mr. Potato Head divisions.

It makes perfect sense that Meg Whitman would end up as the

CEO of eBay, the retailer of absolutely everything, doesn’t it? But

you know there was nothing specifically planned about her career.

EBay didn’t even exist until a few years ago!

— 255 —

YOUR CAREER