SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Work-Life Balance
SUMMARY: The text discusses strategies for maintaining a healthy work-life balance, including setting clear boundaries, saying no to non-essential requests, and ensuring your own joy and fulfillment.
KEYWORDS: work-life balance, boundaries, saying no, fulfillment
---

The absolute ideal is to draw crisp boundaries around your ac-

tivities. Then, when you are at work, keep your head in work

completely, and when you are at home or play, keep your head

— 332 —

WORK-LIFE BALANCE

there, and only there. I realize this is something of a fantasyland.

There will always be pressures on whatever rules you set, but the

smaller and less frequent the interruptions are, the more balance

you will actually feel.

Best practice 2: Have the mettle to say no to requests

and demands outside your chosen work-life balance plan.

Eventually, most people come up with a work-life balance

arrangement that works for them. The trick is sticking to it.

That takes discipline. Saying no is hard, especially for business-

people who have gotten ahead precisely because they have said yes

so often. I will always be impressed by Bill Woodburn, who was

running GE’s industrial diamond business in the 1990s. We asked

him to run a division several times that size, but he had the clarity

about his priorities to say no, despite our efforts to persuade him.

He had a daughter with two years to go in high school, and he

didn’t want to uproot her. Today, Bill’s daughter has long since

graduated, and he has been promoted twice. He’s now president

and CEO of GE’s infrastructure business.

Usually, however, you don’t need to say no to something as

large as a promotion to get the balance you want. You just need to

say it to smaller stuff—a request that you join yet another non-

profit board, a plea to coach yet another kids’ sports team, and the

like.

If you say yes to everything, you won’t get balance. You’ll get off

balance.

Saying no is incredibly liberating. Try it on anything and

everything that is not part of your deliberately chosen work-life

plan.

Best practice 3: Make sure your work-life balance plan

doesn’t leave you out. A really killing dynamic in this work-life

balance thing is the everyone’s-happy-but-me syndrome. Very

competent people figure out a perfect work-life balance plan that

— 333 —

YOUR CAREER

allows them to deliver enough

If you don’t fulfill your of themselves to the workplace,

enough of themselves to family,

own joy with your work-

and enough of themselves to one

life plan, one day you’ll

or two volunteer organizations.

wake up in a special kind The problem is, this perfect

of hell, where everyone is plan creates a kind of fun-free vac-

uum for the person at its center.

happy but you.

Of course, work-life balance

involves making trade-offs, and

decent people are obliged to de-

liver on their commitments to home and work. But if you craft a

work-life balance plan where you are having no fun, chances are

you won’t be able to sustain it.

You have to make sure your work-life balance plan fulfills your

dreams and passions. If that means working a lot, do it. If that

means being home every night, let that happen too. Yes, you have

to be responsible to those around you, but you can’t live someone

else’s concept of your life in the name of balance.

Well, you can, but you shouldn’t. It almost always back-

fires.

We all know outwardly happy-looking people who juggle

huge career and family demands only to suddenly stop and make

drastic changes to their lives. They’ve just had enough of hanging

on by their fingernails.

One person we met recently at a cocktail party explained her

decision to “throw it in”this way: “I hadn’t really had a good laugh

for fifteen years. I hadn’t read the newspaper with a cup of coffee

or played with the dog or called an old friend. It felt like every

single minute, I was struggling with logistics in order to meet

everyone’s needs but my own.

— 334 —

WORK-LIFE BALANCE

“Technically, I was a good enough wife and mother, and I was

good enough at my job. Everyone else was OK, but I was miser-

able. I had to quit or I was going to collapse.”

Today, this woman works from home. Her family has less

money, and she will tell you she misses her old life as a professional.

But at least she can breathe—and laugh.

Work-life balance is not a decision you make alone. You have

to confront how your choices affect a myriad of others.

But if you don’t fulfill your own joy with your plan, all the

balance in the world is just duty. One day, you’ll wake up and find

yourself in a special kind of hell, where everyone is happy but you.

And that doesn’t do anyone any good.

■

When you get right down to it, there are only a few things you

need to know if you want, as the title of this chapter says, to have

it all.

Outside of work, clarify what you want from life.

At work, clarify what your boss wants, and understand that,

if you want to get ahead, what he or she wants comes first. You can

eventually get what you both want, but the arrangement will be

negotiated in that context.

Make sure you work in a supportive culture where perfor-

mance matters and you can earn flexibility chits with great results.

Earn a lot of chits. Redeem as needed; replenish often.

Achieving work-life balance is a process. Getting it right is

iterative. You get better at it with experience and observation, and

eventually, after some time passes, you notice it’s not getting harder

anymore. It’s just what you do.

— 335 —

TYING UP

LOOSE ENDS

20. HERE, THERE, AND EVERYWHERE

The Questions That Almost Got Away 339

20

Here, There, and Everywhere

THE QUESTIONS THAT

ALMOST GOT AWAY

BAC K I N THE INTRO DUCTION, I said that I was

inspired to write this book by the questions I received travel-

ing around the world over the past several years. Most of those