SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Organizational Structure
SUMMARY: Discusses the importance of a clear organizational structure with well-defined reporting relationships and responsibilities to effectively manage people and drive business performance.
KEYWORDS: organizational structure, reporting relationships, management, layers, hierarchies
---

where they fit in—whom they reported to, who reported to

them, and what results each person was responsible for.

— 114 —

PEOPLE MANAGEMENT

George had had the luxury of studying the business for ninety

days prior to CD&R’s closing the deal, so he had a clear idea of

how Culligan should be organized. Within thirty days, George

and Culligan’s relatively new CEO, Mike Kachmer, had designed

and implemented a new org chart that eliminated any confusion.

It’s too early to talk about the impact of this change on Culli-

gan’s bottom line, but based on my all-too-frequent GE experi-

ence clearing up confusing and otherwise ambiguous structures, it

will be significant.

Culligan’s situation, unfortunately, is not unique to old, estab-

lished multinationals. Just recently, I spoke with Dara Khosrow-

shahi, the new CEO at the online travel company Expedia. Dara

also walked into an org chart quagmire when he arrived on the

job at the end of 2004. Expedia, less than ten years old and highly

entrepreneurial, had been growing so fast, no one had taken the

time to clarify reporting roles and responsibilities. As his first pri-

ority, Dara set out to fix that.

My goal here is not to describe how to come up with the

perfect org chart. Each company will do that differently, based on

its size and the business it’s in. But some principles apply across the

board. If you want to manage people effectively, help them by

making sure the org chart leaves as little as possible to the imagi-

nation. It should paint a crystal-clear

picture of reporting relationships

Hierarchies tend to make

and make it patently obvious who is

little generals out of

responsible for what results.

Just as important, it should be perfectly normal people

flat.

who find themselves in

Look, every layer in an organiza-

organizations that

tion puts spin on a new initiative or

respond only to rank.

organizational event. It’s like that

children’s whispering game, tele -

— 115 —

YOUR COMPANY

phone. Every time a piece of infor-

Make your company mation travels through another

person, it changes. Layers do that

flatter. Managers should

too, adding interpretation and buzz

have ten direct reports at

as information travels up and down

the minimum and 30 to 50 the ladder. The trick, then, is to have

percent more if they are fewer rungs.

Layers have other vices. They

experienced.

add cost and complexity to every-

thing. They slow things down

because they increase the number of

approvals and meetings required for anything to move forward.

They have an odious way of burying new businesses, or small units

in big companies, in honeycombs of bureaucracy. They tend to

make little generals out of perfectly normal people who find

themselves in hierarchies that respond only to rank.

The awfulness of layers is nothing new to anyone. And yet

companies gravitate toward them. For some, layers feel like the

only way to respond to growth. More sales—quick, add more

district managers in the field. More employees—quick, add more

staff at headquarters.

For others, the reasoning is even worse. Layers are a way to give

people the feeling of growth when there is none. Layers allow you

to give employees promotions instead of raises. That’s better than

doing nothing, right? Wrong!

The inexorable pull toward layers is why I suggest you make

your company 50 percent flatter than you’d normally feel

comfortable with. Managers should have ten direct reports at the

minimum and 30 to 50 percent more if they are experienced.

When you’ve got great players, you’ll get the most out of them

if their reporting relationships and responsibilities are blindingly

— 116 —

PEOPLE MANAGEMENT

clear. Your org chart is not the only way to accomplish that, but it’s

a necessary first step.

■

After you’ve hired great people, your job becomes managing

them into a winning team.

Make HR matter, with a cadre of pastor-parent types at the

helm. Ensure people really know how they’re doing, with evalua-

tion systems that are honest and real. Motivate and retain wisely

with money, recognition, and training. Face into charged relation-

ships without flinching. Pay ample attention to your largest con-

stituency, the middle 70 percent. And finally, get that org chart

flattened and straightened out.

These six practices take time, that’s true. But companies are not

buildings, machines, or technologies. They are people.

Besides managing them, what work matters more?

— 117 —

8

Parting Ways

LETTING GO IS HARD TO DO

NOW FOR THE HARD PA RT .

For the previous three chapters of this book, I’ve talked

about the exciting, energizing stuff of work—leading, finding

great players, and managing people into a winning team.

But we all know that work isn’t a perpetual paradise.

Work is more like the Garden of Eden. Sometimes people have

to be let go.

That event—be it a firing for nonperformance or a layoff for

economic reasons—is awful, both for the person doing the casting

out and, obviously, for the person being asked to leave. Most good

managers find the actual deed incredibly difficult—feeling guilt

and anxiety before, during, and after. As for the person being let

go, it can be the worst day of his or her career. For some, work has

been their identity, central routine, or second family, and being

forced to leave is a kind of public death. For others, work may

mean less emotionally, but it is a financial necessity, and the

prospect of unemployment is frightening.

— 119 —

YOUR COMPANY

This chapter is about how to manage a parting of ways with as

little pain and damage as possible.

Importantly, not all partings are created equal.

■ First, there are firings for integrity violations—

stealing, lying, cheating, or any other form of ethical

or legal breach.

■ Then, there are layoffs due to economic

downturns.

■ Finally, there are firings for nonperformance.

The last of these is the main focus of this chapter because those are