SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Crisis Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses how organizations must respond to crises, including overhauling processes, holding people accountable, and learning from the experience to emerge stronger.
KEYWORDS: crisis, change, accountability, policy, lessons learned
---

Most crises officially end with a settlement of some kind—finan-

cial, legal, or otherwise.

Then comes the cleanup, and cleanups mean change.

Processes usually get overhauled first.

With the time card situation, for instance, we instituted Policy

20.11, which formalized all dealings with the government. The

policy was excruciatingly detailed, requiring us to cross every t and

dot every i. I am no fan of bureaucracy, but the time card situation

demanded just such a process fix.

Sometimes, however, process fixes are not enough. We had had

a policy about improper payments on our books for more than

thirty years—Policy 20.4 to be exact—that was supposed to pre-

— 159 —

YOUR COMPANY

vent bribery. But it didn’t help us back in 1990, when a regional

sales manager for Aircraft Engines conspired with a general in the

Israeli Air Force to divert money from major contracts for GE to

supply engines for Israeli F-16 warplanes.

This was no small-potatoes operation. The two men had set up

a joint Swiss bank account and a fake contractor in New Jersey to

cover their tracks. The media coverage around the world lasted

nineteen months, through congressional hearings and a criminal

trial against the GE employee, Herbert Steindler. At the end, he

went to jail, and we paid the government a $69 million fine.

In this case, the problem was not process, but people not en-

forcing an existing policy. No one in the business actually knew

what Steindler was up to, and none of them gained a penny from

the scheme, but some ignored warning signs that something was

amiss. Eleven people had to resign, six were demoted, and four

were reprimanded.

Crises require change. Sometimes a process fix is enough. Usu-

ally not. That’s because the people affected by the crisis, or some-

times those just watching it, demand that someone be held

responsible.

It sounds awful, but a crisis rarely ends without blood on the

floor. That’s not easy or pleasant. But sadly, it is often necessary so

the company can move forward again.

Assumption 5:The organization will survive, ultimately

stronger for what happened. There is not a crisis you cannot

learn from, even though you hate every one of them.

From the time card crisis, we learned that when you deal with

the government, there can be no looseness with regulations, even

if it means installing lots of detailed bureaucratic procedures.

That’s the price you pay for doing business with public agencies.

From the compressors situation, we learned to bite the bullet

— 160 —

CRISIS MANAGEMENT

early on product recalls. Doing that cuts your losses and pays off in

consumer goodwill.

From Kidder Peabody, we learned to never buy a company

with a culture that didn’t match ours.

From the bribery case, we learned that policies age and even

die unless managers work constantly to keep them alive.

After a crisis is over, there is always the tendency to want to put

it away in a drawer.

Don’t. Use a crisis for all it’s worth. Teach its lessons every

chance you get.

In doing so, you’ll spread the immunity.

■

There will always be crises.

And when they erupt, it’s awful! It really does feel like your

house is on fire and you can’t get out.

As hard as it sounds, try to remember in the heat of it all that

eventually the flames will die down. And they will die down be-

cause of what you do. You will face the enormity of the problem

and own its solution, while at the same time running the business

as if there is a tomorrow.

Then one day, you will realize tomorrow has arrived. The

smoke will have cleared, and the damaged parts of the structure

will have been replaced or repaired.

You will never be happy for what happened, but stepping back,

you’ll see something that might surprise you—the whole place

looks better than ever.

— 161 —

YOUR COMPETITION

11. STRATEGY

It’s All in the Sauce 165

12. BUDGETING

Reinventing the Ritual 189

13. ORGANIC GROWTH

So You Want to Start Something New 205

14. MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

Deal Heat and Other Deadly Sins 217

15. SIX SIGMA

Better Than a Trip to the Dentist 245

11

Strategy

IT’S ALL IN THE SAUCE

MORE THAN A FEW TIMES over the past three years, I

have been on a speaking program or at a business confer-

ence with one big strategy guru or another. And more than a few

times, I have listened to their presentations in disbelief.

It’s not that I don’t understand their theories about competitive

advantage, core competencies, virtual commerce, supply chain

economics, disruptive innovation, and so on, it’s just that the way

these experts tend to talk about strategy—as if it is some kind of

high-brain scientific methodology—feels really off to me.

I know that strategy is a living, breathing, totally dynamic game.

It’s fun—and fast. And it’s alive.

Forget the arduous, intellectualized number crunching and

data grinding that gurus say you have to go through to get strat-

egy right. Forget the scenario planning, yearlong studies, and

hundred-plus-page reports. They’re time-consuming and expen-

sive, and you just don’t need them.

In real life, strategy is actually very straightforward. You pick a

general direction and implement like hell.

— 165 —

YOUR COMPETITION

Yes, theories can be interesting,

When it comes to charts and graphs can be beautiful,

and big, fat stacks of PowerPoint

strategy, ponder less

slides can make you feel like you’ve

and do more.

done your job. But you just should

not make strategy too complex. The

more you think about it, and the

more you grind down into the data and details, the more you tie

yourself in knots about what to do.

That’s not strategy, that’s suffering.

Now, I don’t want to write off strategy gurus. Some of their

concepts have merit.

But I do want to disagree with the scientific approach to strat-