SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Termination
SUMMARY: The text discusses different types of employee terminations, including for integrity violations, layoffs due to economic downturns, and firings for non-performance, emphasizing the importance of clear communication and minimizing humiliation.
KEYWORDS: employee termination, layoffs, performance management, communication, humiliation
---

■ First, there are firings for integrity violations—

stealing, lying, cheating, or any other form of ethical

or legal breach.

■ Then, there are layoffs due to economic

downturns.

■ Finally, there are firings for nonperformance.

The last of these is the main focus of this chapter because those are

the ones that usually turn into bitter messes.

It doesn’t have to be that way.

The antidote is actually very straightforward: managers need to

accept that letting people go is not something to be avoided, dele-

gated to HR, or done quickly with eyes closed. Instead, it is a

process that they must fully own, guided by two principles: no sur-

prise and minimal humiliation.

But before we look in more depth at how to achieve those

goals, let’s talk about the first two forms of separation.

INTEGRITY VIOLATIONS

...are no-brainers. In such cases, you don’t need to hesitate for a

moment before firing someone or fret about it either. Just do it,

and make sure the organization knows why, so that the conse-

quences of breaking the rules are not lost on anyone.

— 120 —

PARTING WAYS

LAYOFFS DUE TO THE ECONOMY

...are morec omplicated.

Think of all the times you’ve turned on the evening news to

see angry employees protesting outside the gates of a plant or the

front door of an office building. Layoffs have just been announced,

and people are in shock. They feel as though a bomb has dropped

on them out of nowhere.

You can bet the top team doesn’t feel that way. They probably

knew layoffs were in the offing for months.

The fact that everyone else didn’t is really unconscionable.

Every employee, not just the senior people, should know how a

company is doing.

Of course, financial information is not always that easy to get

your hands on. If you are running a ten-person division of a

conglomerate,for instance, you may have access to data about your

business but know little about how other businesses are

performing. On the other hand, if you are running a ten-person

machine shop, there is no reason in the world why employees

shouldn’t know about every vital sign of the business—the

volume of orders, the size and trend line of profit margins, emerg-

ing low-cost competitors, and so forth.

For most managers, the availability of financial data lies some-

where between these extremes.

Your job is to get as much as you can

and get it to your people as clearly Every employee, not

and frequently as possible. That way,

just the senior people,

if layoffs must occur, at least people

should know how a

will have some level of preparation.

company is doing.

The same principle holds for lay-

offs due to market changes. During

— 121 —

YOUR COMPANY

the Internet boom, for example, lots of companies scrambled fran-

tically to hire technical gurus by the truckload. As the reality of

e-commerce settled in, it quickly became obvious that this hiring

had been excessive and some of the techies would have to go.

Most managers in this situation had help making their case, thanks

to intensive media coverage of the industry’s collapse. But open

communication should be the order of the day no matter what.

Last year at a Q & A session in Orlando, Florida, I was introduced

to the audience by the owner and CEO of a New England–based

consulting and training firm.Before the session,I asked her about her

business. She told me it had taken a real hit after the Internet bubble

burst. She’d had to lay off half of her thirty employees.

“How did it go?” I asked.

“Incredibly well,” she answered, to my surprise. “My husband

and I practiced open-book management. Our employees knew

everything about the state of our business. When the time came

for the layoffs, people were sad but they understood.”

Today, the business is flourishing, and many of the CEO’s for-

mer employees have returned without bitterness.

Needless to say, this is an ideal situation—the firm was small

and it too benefited from coverage of the Internet industry col-

lapse. But even if your company is large and economic conditions

are more vague, it always helps to have your cards on the table for

employees to see in the event of a downturn.

FIRINGS FOR NONPERFORMANCE

Now for the most complex and delicate kind of firing, when an

individual has to be let go because of poor performance.

Earlier I used “straightforward” to describe the no-surprise,

minimal-humiliation approach to these situations. I didn’t mean

to make it sound easy—it is not.

— 122 —

PARTING WAYS

Unfortunately, you learn how

to fire on the job, under the most The most complex and

stressful of circumstances. Nothing

delicate kind of firing is

really prepares you. Managers

when an individual has to

don’t sit around talking about how

to do it, comparing notes. I’m not be let go because of poor

aware of any business schools that performance.

actually teach the process, and

while company training programs

might talk a lot about evaluations,

none that I know of offer a lot of help on how to actually let

people go.

Which leaves you to your instincts. Maybe some people are

born to fire well. I know I wasn’t. I did it for years and never got

used to it.I was particularly bad at it in my early years as a manager.

One of my most painful memories from Pittsfield, where I ran

Plastics, is of the day that a boy got on the school bus and punched

my son John in the face. I had fired the boy’s dad the day before,

and obviously, I had done it wrong. It didn’t make any difference

that I thought I had handled the matter well. The boy’s family

didn’t perceive it that way.

THE THREE BIG MISTAKES OF FIRING

Sometimes people screw up so royally they deserve to be fired

without much ado.