SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Organizational Culture and Communication
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of candor and open dialogue in business, despite initial resistance from employees and managers.
KEYWORDS: candor, open communication, organizational culture, employee feedback, performance management
---

your boss or the CEO if your com-

pany lacks candor—open dialogue

can start anywhere. I was speaking

It is true that candid

my mind when I had four employ-

comments definitely

ees at Noryl, the smallest, newest

freak people out at first.

unit of a hierarchical company that

had a very dim view of straight talk.

— 33 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

I was too young and politically clue-

My bosses cautioned me less to notice at the time, but I was

covered because our business was

about my candor. Now

growing by leaps and bounds.

my GE career is over,

If we had the guts to be candid, it

and I’m telling you that didn’t feel that way at the time—we

it was my candor that didn’t know enough to know what

candor was. It just felt natural to us

helped make it work.

to speak openly, argue and debate,

and get things to happen fast. If we

were anything, it was crazily competitive.

Every time I got promoted, the first cycle of reviews—be it

budgets or appraisals—was often awkward and unpleasant. Most

of the new team I was managing wasn’t used to wide-open discus-

sions about everything and anything. For example, we’d be talking

about a direct report at a personnel review, and in conversation, we

would agree that the guy was really awful. His written appraisal,

however, made him look like a prince. When I challenged the

phoniness, I’d hear, “Yeah, yeah, but why would we ever put that

in writing?”

I’d explain why, making the case for candor.

By the next review,we’d already be seeing candor’s positive im-

pact with a better team in place, and with each successive cycle,

more and more people made candor’s case with me.

Still, it wasn’t like I was singing with the whole chorus.

From the day I joined GE to the day I was named CEO, twenty

years later, my bosses cautioned me about my candor. I was labeled

abrasive and consistently warned that my candor would soon get

in the way of my career.

Now my GE career is over, and I’m telling you that it was can-

dor that helped make it work. So many more people got into the

— 34 —

CANDOR

game, so many voices, so much energy. We gave it to one another

straight, and each of us was better for it.

■

We’ve talked a lot in this chapter about one word. But it’s really

very simple—candor works because candor unclutters.

Yes, yes, everyone agrees that candor is against human nature.

So is waking up at five in the morning for the 6:10 train every day.

So is eating lunch at your desk so you won’t miss an important

meeting at one. But for the sake of your team or your organiza-

tion, you do a lot of things that aren’t easy. The good thing about

candor is that it’s an unnatural act that is more than worth it.

It is impossible to imagine a world where everyone goes

around saying what they really think all the time. And you proba-

bly wouldn’t want it anyway—too much information! But even if

we get halfway there, lack of candor won’t be the biggest dirty

little secret in business anymore.

It will be its biggest change for the better.

— 35 —

3

Differentiation

CRUEL AND DARWINIAN?

TRY FAIR AND EFFECTIVE

IF THERE IS ONE OF MY VA LUES that really pushes

buttons, it is differentiation.

Some people love the idea; they swear by it, run their compa-

nies with it, and will tell you it is at the very root of their success.

Other people hate it. They call it mean, harsh, impractical, demo-

tivating, political, unfair—or all of the above. Once, during a radio

talk show about my first book, a woman in LA pulled off the high-

way to call in and label differentiation “cruel and Darwinian.” And

that was just the beginning of her commentary!

Obviously, I am a huge fan of differentiation. I have seen it

transform companies from mediocre to outstanding, and it is as

morally sound as a management system can be. It works.

Companies win when their managers make a clear and mean-

ingful distinction between top- and bottom-performing busi-

nesses and people, when they cultivate the strong and cull the

weak. Companies suffer when every business and person is treated

equally and bets are sprinkled all around like rain on the ocean.

— 37 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

When all is said and done, differ-

A company has only so entiation is just resource allocation,

which is what good leaders do and,

much money and

in fact, is one of the chief jobs they

managerial time.

are paid to do. A company has only

Winning leaders invest so much money and managerial

where the payback is the time. Winning leaders invest where

the payback is the highest. They cut

highest. They cut their

their losses everywhere else.

losses everywhere else.

If that sounds Darwinian, let me

add that I am convinced that along

with being the most efficient and

most effective way to run your company, differentiation also hap-

pens to be the fairest and the kindest. Ultimately, it makes winners

out of everyone.

When I was at GE, people discussed differentiation vigorously,

but over the years, most people came to strongly support it as our

way of doing business. By the time I retired, differentiation was

not really a hot topic anymore. The same can’t be said for outside

the company! Without a doubt, differentiation receives the most

questions I get from audiences around the world. As I said, people

tend to love it or hate it, but a pretty large number are just con-

fused by it. If I could change one thing about my first book, it

would be to add more pages to the discussion of differentiation,

explaining the topic inside and out, and stressing that differentia-