SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Career Advice
SUMMARY: A manager advises a Harvard graduate to pursue his passion for car design instead of investment banking or consulting, but the student's father discourages him.
KEYWORDS: career choice, passion, parental expectations
---

likewise not very flush.

— 264 —

THE RIGHT JOB

Still, some people just love the romance of air travel, the adven-

ture of the hotel business, and the excitement of creating books. If

you are one of them, of course you should enter these fields; just

do so with your eyes open. Every job you take is a gamble that

could increase your options or shut them down.

OWNERSHIP

A few years ago, a manager I know was visited in her office by the

son of a business acquaintance. He was about to graduate from

Harvard, and he needed career advice about two worlds she was

very familiar with—investment banking and management con-

sulting.

The student, hair combed neatly and dutifully dressed in a suit,

came prepared with a list of questions. What was the difference,

he asked, between the major consulting firms? What kind of

assignments could he expect during his first year on Wall Street?

And so on.

The manager had worked in consulting before joining a con-

sumer goods company and had many acquaintances in investment

banking, and so she answered each question thoroughly. She

watched as the senior took careful notes, but she could tell he

wasn’t particularly curious about anything she said.

In fact, after a half hour or so, he thanked her politely and stood

to leave.

As he was doing so, he tucked his pad inside a folder, which the

manager noticed was completely covered with intricate drawings

of cars.

“Wow, those are amazing! Who did them?” she asked.

Suddenly, the senior was filled with energy. “I did—I’m always

drawing cars,” he said. “My dorm room is covered with posters

and paintings of cars—I subscribe to every car magazine! I’ve been

— 265 —

YOUR CAREER

obsessed with cars since I was five years old. My whole life, I’ve

wanted to be a car designer. That’s why I’m always going to car

shows and NASCAR races. I went to Indianapolis last year—I

drove there!”

The manager shook her head in disbelief.

“You’ve got to go work in Detroit,” she said. “Why in the

world are you thinking about consulting or banking?”

The senior deflated as quickly as he had come to life.“My dad

says the car business is not what I went to Harvard for.”

For the next few minutes, the manager tried to change the stu-

dent’s mind, but she quickly realized she was getting drawn into

family dynamics that were none of her business. She was not sur-

prised a few months later when she bumped into the young man’s

father and he proudly told her that his son was working eighty-

hour weeks at a Wall Street firm.

Look, over the course of our careers, we all take jobs to meet

the needs or dreams of other people—parents, spouses, teachers, or

classmates.

That’s not necessarily wrong, unless you don’t realize you’re

doing it. Because working to fulfill someone else’s needs or dreams

almost always catches up with you. I know someone who literally

became a doctor because his entire childhood his mother—a

Polish immigrant who loved the American Dream—introduced

him by saying, “And here’s my doctor!” He didn’t hate the profes-

sion, but you’ve never met anyone more eager to retire.

Similarly, there are countless stories of people who take jobs

because their spouses want them to travel less. Then what invari-

ably happens is that the compromising partner loses out on a

promotion because of curtailed mobility. Sometimes, blame gets

flung everywhere. Other times, it just sits there and simmers.

The hard reality is that there is no foolproof way out of the

— 266 —

THE RIGHT JOB

ownership bind. Especially as you get

older, life and relationships can be Working to fulfill

complicated. Very few people have

someone else’s needs

the total freedom and independence

or dreams almost always

to take a job just for themselves.

There are tuitions to pay, spouses catches up with you.

with their own careers, and yes, inner

voices saying what you should do

with your life, even when you’re long past being a college senior.

That is why the only real defense against job ownership back-

firing is to be explicit with yourself about the person (or people)

for whom you are taking your job.

Over the course of your career, your Detroit will surely call

you at one point or another. If you can go, that’s great. If you can’t,

make peace with the reasons why.

WORK CONTENT

This signal comes last in our chart, but it could just as easily come

first.

Every job has bad days or rough periods, and yes, there will be

times when you work mainly to make ends meet. But in the very

best job scenario, you love the work—at least something about it. It

just excites you. The customers, the travel, the camaraderie at the

Tuesday morning sales meeting, whatever—something about the

job makes you want to come back day after day. Sometimes it is

the sheer challenge of the job that turns your crank.

Take the case of Joel Klein, the chancellor of the New York

City Department of Education. (I’ve gotten to know Joel through

my work with the school system’s Leadership Academy for new

principals.) It is no exaggeration to say that Joel could have any

— 267 —

YOUR CAREER

number of prestigious, high-paying jobs as a corporate general

counsel or CEO. As the assistant attorney general in charge of the

U.S. Department of Justice Antitrust Division in the 1990s, he

took on Microsoft in a highly publicized battle, and later was

chairman and CEO of the U.S. division of Bertelsmann, the global

media company.

There is no glamour and very limited glory in the school

reform job Joel accepted in 2002. It goes without saying he took a

massive pay cut to become chancellor, but in taking the job, Joel

also agreed to deconstruct an insanely bureaucratic system with