SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Employee Termination
SUMMARY: The text discusses three main mistakes managers make when firing employees, including moving too fast, not using enough candor, and taking too long.
KEYWORDS: firing, employee termination, performance issues, management mistakes
---

and obviously, I had done it wrong. It didn’t make any difference

that I thought I had handled the matter well. The boy’s family

didn’t perceive it that way.

THE THREE BIG MISTAKES OF FIRING

Sometimes people screw up so royally they deserve to be fired

without much ado.

I once had a manager in Plastics who had to be let go after

ninety days because, while he had a résumé loaded with presti-

gious degrees and was as charming as could be in chitchat, he was

completely ineffective at every single task. A friend of mine was

fired from her job as a clothing store clerk in the first week

because she forgot to ask half the customers to sign their credit

— 123 —

YOUR COMPANY

card slips. She says that if her boss

He blew up in anger, hadn’t fired her, she would have

fired herself.

shouting, “You’ve got to

Usually, however, firings for

be crazy. We don’t fire

nonperformance aren’t so black-

people at this company!” and-white. There’s lots more gray

about who did what and what went

wrong to lead up to the finale.

Because of that, there are three main ways that managers get

firing wrong—moving too fast, not using enough candor,and tak-

ing too long.

For an example of the first dynamic, take the case of a friend of

mine who ran a sixty-person unit within a three-hundred-

employee company. The company had been growing and things

were generally going well. It was privately held and had a family-

like culture, meaning mediocre performance was generally toler-

ated in the name of congeniality. It was not uncommon for

employees to carpool on weekdays and socialize on weekends. As

with many small companies, performance reviews were generally

informal events with lots of generic pleasantries.

When my friend was promoted to head the unit, she soon

realized that one of her chief lieutenants, the man in charge of

distribution, whom I’ll call Richard, was not up to the demands of

the growing business. To exacerbate matters, Richard was a true

disrupter, as described in the last chapter. He never missed an

opportunity to challenge the authority of the new boss or her

boss; usually, his negative comments came in the form of sarcastic

humor with peers in the hallways.

Richard’s performance wasn’t terrible, but it was pretty close.

He regularly missed deadlines and seemed unable to handle

increasingly complex logistics. My friend spoke to Richard several

— 124 —

PARTING WAYS

times about his shortcomings, to no avail. Finally, after a particu-

larly tough period of Richard’s corridor sniping, an important

customer called to complain that his shipment was a week late. My

friend had had it—Richard had to go.

The official dismissal meeting could not have gone worse. To

say Richard was surprised is an understatement. He blew up in

anger, shouting, “You’ve got to be crazy. We don’t fire people at

this company!” and “You’re going to pay for this.” He then

stormed out, ran back to his office in another part of the build-

ing, and called an impromptu meeting with his own eight-

person staff. Even though he cleaned out his desk and was gone

within hours, a hate-management movement had been

launched. Some of the unit’s employees—in particular, Richard’s

circle of friends—felt that he had been fired without enough

warning, and they complained they no longer trusted the boss or

the organization. In the fraught weeks that followed, productiv-

ity dropped by an order of magnitude as people spent inordinate

amounts of time gathering behind closed doors to talk about

Richard’s departure, how it was handled, and who might be

next.

It took my friend about three months to restore equilibrium

and get her unit moving again.

The second firing mistake is a variation of Richard’s case, and it

involves lack of candor and a misunderstanding about fairness.

Say you’ve got an employee named Gail. She can’t reach her

sales quotas, and her coworkers really can’t count on her for one

reason or another. She’s damaging the unit’s performance and

morale. But Gail’s friendly to everyone, she tries hard, and she’s

been with the company for years. Every time you attempt to tell

her how badly she’s doing, she’s so cheerful and oblivious that the

conversation gets muddled, and you end up hiding your negative

— 125 —

YOUR COMPANY

feelings behind a forced smile and a mixed message about “work-

ing smarter.”

Then the situation reaches a crisis stage. Gail really screws up,

and in a burst of impulsive anger, you fire her. She’s shocked and

starts to remind you of all the positive feedback you’ve given her

over the years. You respond by coming up with a severance pack-

age that feels pretty rich to you, given how much she’s underper-

formed. She hates the package—it’s insulting, she says—and she

gets angry. You get angry back because you can’t believe she’s

angry. You feel she should be grateful you carried her for so long!

The next thing you know, Gail’s gone from shocked to angry to

bitter as she walks out the door.

This may not be the last you hear of her. Think about the last

time you lost a promising hire or a potential customer. They might

have been talking to Gail, who went out to become an “ambassa-

dor” for your company.

Every employee who leaves goes on to represent your com-

pany. For the next five, ten, or twenty years, they can bad-mouth

or praise. In the most extreme cases, people fired take their anger

public, and a few become so-called whistleblowers. I say “so-

called” because I’ve seen too many companies “exposed”—

wrongly—by people seeking nothing more than revenge for a

firing conducted by a manager who should have and could have

done it better.

And now for the third mistake. It

Every person who leaves occurs when a firing happens too

slowly and you get a kind of Dead