SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Career Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses how to handle a bad boss, emphasizing the importance of assessing trade-offs and having a well-thought-out exit plan if staying is not worth it.
KEYWORDS: bad boss, career strategy, trade-offs, exit plan
---

making small acquisitions.

It took seventeen years for me to bump into a bad boss. It

wasn’t that Dave Dance, a vice-

chairman, was actually bad, it was just

that I was in the running for the CEO

What an awful feeling

job, and he strongly supported an-

when your boss is not

other candidate. Every day felt like a

on your side.

week. No matter what I did, I felt that

Dave was rooting for me to fail. What

— 308 —

HARD SPOTS

an awful feeling when your boss is

not on your side. I tried to stay out There is a reason why

of his way—I hung out at headquar-

kids don’t tattle on

ters as little as possible. I spent my

bullies. Unfortunately,

time in the field with people I liked,

doing what I liked to do, reviewing the same principle

businesses. applies in the office.

My situation was a lot easier than

it is for many people. I knew that it

couldn’t last more than a couple of years, and I also knew the po-

tential reward if I endured, and it was big. You may not have that

luxury.

But be careful. Uncertainty about the final outcome can make

you do something foolish—that is, pull an end run. You may feel

the impulse to sneak upstairs and talk to your boss’s boss about the

situation. That can be suicide. About 90 percent of the time, com-

plaining about a bad boss to his boss circles right around to bite

you on the rear. The big boss may have your best interests at heart

when he scolds your boss for his behavior, but you can be

absolutely sure that your life will only become more unpleasant

afterward. There is a reason why kids don’t tattle on bullies.

Unfortunately, the same principle applies in the office.

There will always be an element of uncertainty to enduring a

bad boss. You may surmise a happy ending or be promised one.

But there are very few guarantees. All you know for certain in this

kind of situation is that going to work every day isn’t fun.

Which is why you need to ask the following:

Why do I work here anyway? Remember how, in the chap-

ter on finding the right job, we talked about the inevitability of

trade-offs? It is rare for a job to be perfect in every way. Sometimes

you stay in a job for the money or the friends; sometimes you give

up money and friends for the love of the work itself or the job’s lo-

— 309 —

YOUR CAREER

cation or its lack of travel. Sometimes you stay in a job because the

company has so much prestige, you know it will help you get a

new job once you have a few more years of experience under your

belt.

When you find yourself in a situation with a bad boss that isn’t

going to change anytime soon, you need to assess your trade-offs

and ask, “Are they worth it?”

If the answer to this question is no, then start constructing an

exit plan that gets you out the door with as little damage as possi-

ble.

On the other hand, if your boss situation offers some kind of

long-term benefit that you understand and accept, you really have

no choice. Focus on why you are staying, and put your bad boss in

perspective. He isn’t everything in your life—he is the one down-

side of a career or life deal you have made with yourself.

More than anything else, come to grips with the fact that you

are staying with a bad boss by choice. That means you’ve forfeited

your right to complain.

You can’t consider yourself a victim anymore.

When you own your choices, you own their consequences.

■

In a perfect world, all bosses would be perfect.

That happens so infrequently that entire movies and books are

written about bad bosses, not to mention lots of country-and-

western songs.

When you get a bad boss, first find out if you are the prob-

lem. That’s not easy, but in many cases, a bad boss is just a disap-

pointed one.

If you’re convinced you aren’t the problem, ask yourself if your

company is likely to keep a bad boss with good results. If the

— 310 —

HARD SPOTS

answer is yes, the only thing left to do is look at the trade-offs you

are willing to make. Is your job worth the price of enduring a bad

boss? If so, put up and shut up, to put a twist on the old saying.

If the trade-off is not worth it, leave gracefully.

And as you start your next job, remember exactly what made

the bad boss bad and how it made you feel—so that when the time

comes for you to be a boss, you won’t do the same.

— 311 —

9

1

Work-Life Balance

EVERYTHING YOU ALWAYS WANTED

TO KNOW ABOUT HAVING IT ALL

(BUT WERE AFRAID TO HEAR)

IF EVER THERE WA S A CA SE of “Do as I say not as I

did,” this chapter is it. No one—myself included—would ever

call me an authority on work-life balance. For forty-one years, my

operating principle was work hard, play hard, and spend some

time as a father.

Had the concept been around at the time, I am sure I would

have described my life as perfectly balanced. It felt like it had

everything in it, all in the right amounts.

I grew up in an era and as part of a culture where you struggled

to go to college and get a decent degree. During school, or very

shortly thereafter, you got married and started having kids. Get-

ting a job and working your ass off at it was considered the ticket

to a good life.

I followed this pattern without a lot of thought. Luckily for