SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: People Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of HR professionals who can serve as pastor-parent types, with integrity, business acumen, and the ability to resolve conflicts and develop leaders.
KEYWORDS: HR management, people development, organizational dynamics, conflict resolution, leadership cultivation
---

organizing the summer picnic. Someone has to take care of these

tasks, but if HR gets stuck doing them all the time, its stature will

never be what it should.

Third, HR becomes twisted up in palace intrigue.

Back in the 1960s and early ’70s, GE went through a period

like that. Its HR system ran on gossip, whispers, and tattling. A

small and frankly terrifying group of HR executives held secretive

opinions about every manager, and they could tar you for life if

they wanted. On the other hand, they could also move you up

very quickly. They thought of themselves as kingmakers.

The game changed completely when Reg Jones, the CEO at

the time, appointed Ted LeVino to run HR. Ted threw open the

shutters and let the light shine in. HR processes soon became

transparent, and more importantly, they began to make sense. By

the time Ted retired in 1985, HR was on its way to doing exactly

what it should: listening to people vent, brokering internal differ-

ences, and helping managers develop leaders and build careers.

— 101 —

YOUR COMPANY

That’s why the best HR people

Pastor-parent types see are a kind of hybrid: one part pastor,

who hears all sins and complaints

the hidden hierarchies

without recrimination, and one part

in people’s minds—the

parent, who loves and nurtures, but

invisible org chart that gives it to you fast and straight when

exists at every company. you’re off track.

I’ve found over the years that the

best pastor-parent types have usually

run something once in their careers—a factory, a product line, or

another function. But I’ve also seen some come right up through

HR. Either way, the best have stature beyond their rank and title.

They know the business—its every detail. They understand the

tensions between marketing and manufacturing, or between two

executives who once went after the same job. They see the hidden

hierarchies in people’s minds—the invisible org chart of political

connections that exists in every company. They know the players

and the history.

Along with stature, pastor-parent types have got integrity ooz-

ing out of them. That integrity comes from unrelenting candor

and trustworthiness. Pastor-parents listen with uncommon care,

tell the truth, and hold confidences tight.

They also know how to settle a disagreement.

We’d all like to believe that good companies don’t need refer-

ees. But they do. People get passed over for promotions. Interdivi-

sional sales cause all kinds of who-gets-the-credit issues. Bonus

pools are perceived to be unfairly distributed.

I was lucky enough to have a few pastor-parent types on my

team at various points in my career, the last one being Bill Conaty,

whom I’ve mentioned before in this book. Bill started out in GE’s

manufacturing training program and eventually became the man-

ager of the locomotive diesel engine plant in Grove City, Pennsyl-

— 102 —

PEOPLE MANAGEMENT

vania. He then jumped ship to the HR business. He was a natural.

No matter with whom he was dealing—a senior executive or an

hourly worker—he was as straight as could be with good news

and bad. He was a great listener and so discrete that you couldn’t

squeeze a secret out of him with a vise.

I came to appreciate Bill when he was head of HR for Aircraft

Engines. The business had a huge crisis in ’89, when it was discov-

ered that one of its employees had bribed an Israeli air force gen-

eral to get a jet engine contract. What impressed me was how Bill

dealt with the people involved in the mess, some of whom were

his peers and friends. He had to make incredibly painful recom-

mendations about letting people go, and he did it with the kind of

candor, compassion, and diplomacy that is the ultimate hallmark

of a pastor-parent.

If your HR is on track, pastor-parents are ready to handle fric-

tions and crises—channeling anger, forging compromises, and if

need be, negotiating dignified endings.

They are there to help managers manage people well.

PRACTICE 2: Use a rigorous, nonbureaucratic eval-

uation system, monitored for integrity with the same

intensity as Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance.

Remember what happened when corporate scandals rocked the

American economy? The government reacted quickly by passing

the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which mandates a fine or jail time

or both for any CEO or CFO who wittingly signs off on bad

numbers.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act was necessary to get credibility in

financial reporting and restore investor confidence.

— 103 —

YOUR COMPANY

I just wish that evaluation sys-

Very few companies tems got the same kind of attention

and rigor. After all, financial viola-

have meaningful

tions happen because of people.

evaluation systems in

Yet people evaluation systems are

place. That’s not just too often just exercises in paper

bad—it’s terrible! pushing.

Earlier in this book, in the chap-

ter on candor, I mentioned that I

often ask audiences, “How many of you have received an honest,

straight-between-the-eyes feedback session in the past year, where

you came out knowing exactly what you have to do to improve

and where you stand in the organization?”

To repeat: 20 percent of the audience raises its hand on a good

day, but the average yes-response is about 10 percent.

If this unscientific research is anywhere near right, very few

companies have meaningful evaluation systems in place.

That’s not just bad—it’s terrible!

You simply cannot manage people to better performance if

you do not give candid, consistent feedback through a system that

is loaded with integrity.

There is no one right way to evaluate people. Every company

will devise different forms and different methodologies. But any

good evaluation system should share some characteristics.

■ It should be clear and simple, washed clean of

time-consuming bureaucratic gobbledygook. If

your evaluation system involves more than two

pages of paperwork per person, something is wrong.

I evaluated my twenty or so direct reports with

frequent handwritten notes that included two pieces

— 104 —

PEOPLE MANAGEMENT