SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Performance Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses how protecting underperforming employees can hurt the organization and the employees themselves, and advocates for a differentiated performance management system.
KEYWORDS: underperformers, performance management, employee development
---

that differentiation, as a managerial system, does not value people

who add intangible things to a business, like a “feeling of family”

or “humanity” or “a sense of history.”And we all know of organi-

zations that continue to employ underperformers for a long time

mainly because they are really nice individuals.

I fully understand not wanting to manage out somebody nice.

But the fact is protecting underperformers always backfires.

First of all, by not carrying their weight, they make the pie smaller

for everyone. That can cause resentment. It’s also not what you

could call fair, and an unfair culture never helps a company win; it

undermines trust and candor too much.

The worst thing, though, is how protecting people who don’t

perform hurts the people themselves. For years, they are carried

along with everyone looking the other way. At appraisals, they are

vaguely told they are “great” or

“doing just fine.” They are thanked

for their contributions.

Protecting under-

Then a downturn occurs, and

performers always

layoffs are necessary. The “nice” un-

backfires. The worst

derperformers are almost always the

first to go, and always the most sur- thing, though, is how

prised, because no one has ever told

protecting people who

them the truth about their results, or

don’t perform hurts the

lack thereof. The awful thing is that

people themselves.

this often happens when the under-

performers are in their late forties or

— 45 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

fifties; they’ve been carried along for most of their careers. Then

suddenly, at an age when starting over can be very tough, they are

out of a job with no preparation or planning and a kick in the

stomach they may never get over. They feel betrayed, and they

should.

As harsh as it may seem at first, differentiation prevents that

tragedy because it is based on performance measures that really

count. That’s why I believe you are never “too nice” to implement

20-70-10, only too cowardly.

Differentiation pits people against one another and

undermines teamwork.

Try telling that to Joe Torre!

The New York Yankees function perfectly well as a team

(much to the dismay of Red Sox fans like myself, I might add)

with a highly transparent system of differentiation in place.

Stars are lavishly rewarded; underperformers are shown the

clubhouse exit. And if that’s not enough to make a system of

differentiation perfectly clear, the players’ salaries are very public!

You can have no doubt that differentiation is going on when

some team members make $18 million a year, and others wear-

ing the same uniform make the Major League minimum of

$300,000.

And yet everyone pulls together for the team to win. Alex

Rodriguez loves the thrill of hitting a grand slam home run, but

I’m sure it feels a lot better to him when the Yankees win. In July

2004, Derek Jeter made the catch of the year, diving into the

stands and coming up with a black eye and a cut face, a photo of

which graced every newspaper in New York. A lot of the pain had

to be relieved when the Yankees won, coming from behind in the

thirteenth inning, in one of the great baseball games of all time.

— 46 —

DIFFERENTIATION

Without question, these two

stars love to excel for their own Differentiation rewards

sakes. But you can bet it is always

those members of the

more fun and exciting when the

team who deserve it.

team wins.

Their teamwork is a testament to

two other things. First, great leader-

ship. Joe Torre obviously understands the challenges of managing

in a differentiation environment.

Second, the cohesiveness of the Yankees, and of so many other

sports teams, shows the positive impact of an open, honest man-

agement system built on candid performance assessments and

aligned rewards. In that way, differentiation doesn’t undermine

teamwork, it enhances it.

In business, there probably would be pandemonium if compa-

nies started publishing everyone’s salary, and I’m not advocating

that here. And yet, people always seem to know what their

coworkers are making, don’t they? That’s why they get mad when

everyone on a team gets rewarded the same way when only a few

people have done the work. They feel cheated and wonder why

management can’t see the obvious—that not every team member

is created equal.

Differentiation rewards those members of the team who

deserve it. By the way, that annoys only the underperformers. To

everyone else, it seems fair. And a fair environment promotes

teamwork. Better yet, it motivates people to give their all, and

that’s what you want.

Differentiation is possible only in the United States. I wish

I could implement it, but because of our cultural values, the

people in my country simply won’t accept it.

— 47 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

I have heard this critique of differentiation since its earliest days at

GE, when one of our managers explained that 20-70-10 couldn’t

be implemented in Japan because in that culture politeness was

valued far more than candor. Since then, I have heard the national-

culture excuse from people in hundreds of companies in dozens of

nations. Recently, managers in Denmark told us that their country

values egalitarianism too much for differentiation to be widely ac-

cepted. We’ve heard that case made in France too. A manager at a

meeting in Amsterdam told us last year that there was too much

“Calvinism in Dutch bones” for the system to work in the

Netherlands. I guess the manager believed all rewards come only

in Heaven, if you’re chosen to get there! And in China we heard

that differentiation is a long time coming because in most state-

owned enterprises—still more than 50 percent of the economy

despite market reforms—many of the best jobs and rewards go to

the most loyal members of the party whether they are the most

talented or not.

Basically, I think the excuses we hear about differentiation’s