SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Budgeting
SUMMARY: This passage describes the process of negotiating a business budget between a company's headquarters and its field operations, often involving contentious discussions and compromises.
KEYWORDS: budget negotiation, financial targets, resource allocation
---

The two sides meet in a windowless room with a whole day set

aside for what everyone knows will be an unpleasant wrestling

match.

The field makes its presentation with a fat deck of PowerPoint

slides, and the story is invariably dire. Despite reports of a pretty

good economy, there are reasons to believe this particular business

environment is going to be very difficult. “The competition has

just brought a new plant online, and with its excess supply, there

will be enormous pricing pressure,” they might say. Later in

the meeting, you get: “Raw material costs and inflation pressures

are severe. In order to meet these challenges, we need new

cost-reduction programs that require $10 million in additional

resources.”

The final pronouncement from the business managers usually

goes something like this: “To be optimistic—very optimistic—

earnings will likely grow only 6 percent.”

Headquarters, needless to say, has its own view of the situation,

and it is decidedly not dire. The economy is strong. GDP is esti-

mated to rise steadily all year. Orders are up everywhere else in the

company. The main competition has a big asbestos lawsuit against

it that will distract management. The business can get the cost

reductions with $5 million in new programs, and earnings should

grow 12 percent.

You know what goes on during this marathon—the grum-

— 192 —

BUDGETING

bling and groaning, the probing and data quoting, the back and

forth and back and forth again. On occasion, it can get

contentious, especially if a senior person has worked within the

business earlier in his career. He’ll throw out anecdotes about how

they used to do it in the old days and accuse the field of

lowballing. “I know where you’re hiding it. I used to park reserves

in there too,” he might insist. “Now give it up.”

The grappling concludes—finally and inevitably—when the

sides split the difference. The field gets $7.5 million in resources

and a budget with a commitment for 9 percent earnings growth.

Before the field packs up to leave, everyone somberly shakes

hands. The mood is resigned. For all involved, the unspoken vibe

in the room is: we didn’t get what we wanted or what was right.

That pall lasts right up until the moment the field team pulls

out of the driveway. Then the high-fiving begins.

“Those stiffs wanted us to deliver 12 percent, and we only have

to hand them 9!” the people in the field exclaim. “Thank God we

dodged that bullet!”

The headquarters team is also feeling pretty good about them-

selves. “Those sandbaggers only wanted to give us 6 percent,” they

crow. “Did you see where they were hiding earnings? We let them

off with 9 percent. They’ll deliver that, and probably more, but

with their 9 and what we’ve got from the other businesses, we’ll

have enough.”

Soon thereafter, the Negotiated Settlement gets officially

approved, and the field and headquarters make their peace over its

targets. They tell each other, “Well, we can live with the numbers

this year. We guess they’re OK.”

When the end of the year rolls around, the awful ritual com-

pletes itself. Most often, the field hits or beats their targets and gets

their bonuses, and of course headquarters congratulates them. Job

well done!

— 193 —

YOUR COMPETITION

Everyone is happy, but they shouldn’t be. In this minimaliza-

tion exercise, there has been little or no discussion about what

could have been.

EVERYONE MAKE NICE

The second budgeting dynamic that saps value is the Phony

Smile.

Again, people in the field spend a couple of weeks coming up

with a detailed budget plan. Compared to the Negotiated Settle-

ment approach to budgeting, the sadder part of this dynamic is

that often, Phony Smile plans are filled with good ideas and excit-

ing opportunities. The people in the field have bold dreams about

what they can do—make an acquisition, for example, or develop

new products—given the right amount of investment. They’re

eager to expand their business’s horizons, but they need help from

the mother ship.

To make their case, the managers in the field prepare the usual

stacks of slides. Since retiring from GE, I’ve seen such presenta-

tions with as many as 150 pages! Every competitive angle is

covered,and usually overly so. Typically, these presentations are ev-

idence of painstaking labor, wrought with angst over minutiae and

born of long nights of building spreadsheets that contain precision

to the last dollar. It’s likely that nobody actually enjoys putting

together these slide packs, but when they’re done, along with

exhaustion, the team understandably feels an enormous sense of

pride and ownership.

On the anointed day, the team, led by a leader we’ll call Sara,

travels to headquarters. And there, again in a darkened room, they

present their case, slide by slide, to the senior group.

When the show is over, the lights come up, and for a few min-

— 194 —

BUDGETING

utes, the managers and the field people engage in rather pleasant

chitchat. It goes like this:

“I see you expect Acme Corp. to build another plant. That’s

very interesting. They almost went bankrupt in ’88,” one senior

manager musters the energy to say.

“Well, they were bought two years ago, and they’ve come back

strong,” Sara quickly answers.

“Very interesting. Very interesting,” comes the vague reply

from a headquarters heavy.

“And I see that you’re expecting the cost of natural gas to hold

steady for the first six months,” another headquarters person

might offer up as evidence he was listening.

“Absolutely!” Sara responds. “We don’t see any change in that

pricing.”

“Hmm . . . interesting. ...Yes,i nteresting.. . .”

Finally, after a few more perfunctory exchanges, it’s over. The

top team smiles brightly and says, “Nice job! Thanks for coming

in! Have a safe trip home!” And pretty convinced that they did

OK, the field people smile back brightly and go away.

Then there’s the meeting after the meeting.