SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Work-Life Balance
SUMMARY: The text discusses the chit system where employees earn flexibility by demonstrating strong performance, but face time is still important for promotions.
KEYWORDS: work-life balance, performance-based flexibility, promotion criteria
---

these individuals say things like, “They wanted to have children.

Now they want us to make it easy for them!” That perspective is

not particularly charitable, but I can understand where it’s coming

from.

Actually, the reality of the workplace is that there are very few

special passes. Yes, bosses are agreeable to giving people the flexi-

bility to come and go as they please—but only after they have

earned it with their performance and results.

In fact, I would describe the way work-life balance really

works as an old-fashioned chit system. People with great perfor-

mance accumulate chits, which can be traded in for flexibility. The

more chits you have, the greater your opportunity to work when

and where and how you want.

You cannot talk about this chit system, however, without men-

tioning face time.

Face time is a big deal at most companies, especially when it

comes to promotions. Despite all the technology that makes vir-

— 323 —

YOUR CAREER

tual work possible, most managers are simply more comfortable

promoting people they’ve gotten to know in the trenches, people

whom they’ve seen in meetings and hallways or lived with

through a really tough crisis. Your work from off-site may be spec-

tacular. You may be the most productive person on your team.

Your current job may not even technically require you to come in

to the office! But when push comes to shove at promotion time

and qualifications are close, bosses will almost always give the job

to the devil they know. And nothing makes a person familiar like

showing up.

For an example of a typical chit system in action, let’s take the

case of Susan Peters.

Susan joined GE in 1979 at age twenty-six as an HR manager

in Appliances. She quickly distinguished herself as a high-

potential and was moved several times to give her new challenges.

In 1986, three months after her daughter, Jess, was born, Susan was

working in Pittsfield, and unexpectedly, her boss had to undergo

serious back surgery and needed to be out for a long time. In a big

step up, she was named head of HR over other more senior peo-

ple. She hit the ball out of the park.

Next, Susan moved to Holland, then back to corporate head-

quarters, then back to Pittsfield. Two years later, we moved her to

Louisville to head up human resources for the appliances business.

In every job, her performance was terrific.

In 1998, we needed to fill the HR job in our medical business

in Milwaukee, and we knew what to do: send Susan Peters. When

she was called, everyone expected a fast and simple “OK, when do

I start?”

Instead she said, “I just can’t—I have family issues here that I

have to resolve.”

It was as if a bucket of cold water had been poured on our

heads. We had never given a thought to Susan’s personal life, and

— 324 —

WORK-LIFE BALANCE

she had never brought it up. Even when we had sent her for eight

weeks of training—four in Japan in 1992 and four in China in

1993—she hadn’t made a peep about being away from her daugh-

ter or managing a dual-career household from the road. Suddenly

here she was, asking for a break, and we were mortified.

Damn it, we thought, how many people like Susan Peters had

we lost along the way because they took our silence about work-

life as indifference?

We couldn’t give Susan her break fast enough. By that point in

her career, her pile of chits was about a mile high—far higher than

she would have ever needed to reach out for assistance. We told

her not to worry and stay put. Our main concern at that point was

that she successfully resolve her family issues.

That took a couple of years. Never once in that time did any-

one at the company mention Susan’s new limitations in a negative

context. Then, in 2000, Susan told us she was back in the game,

and we quickly promoted her to head of HR at NBC. She is now

the vice president of executive development for the whole com-

pany, based in Fairfield, making her the No. 2 HR executive

at GE.

When you ask Susan about her career, she says, “Basically I

learned that you can have all the work-life balance you want if you

deliver. I’m not saying it wasn’t hard at certain points. It was hard.

“When I went to Japan and China, my daughter was about

seven—old enough to lay a real guilt trip on me.I cried my eyes out

all the way over. But I had made a conscious decision about work-

life balance, and part of that decision was to travel for my career.

“I knew I’d always have flexibility in my job when I needed it.

I had earned it with commitment and performance over the

years.”

Contrast Susan’s story to that of a friend of mine who managed

a sixty-person unit of a fast-growing company.

— 325 —

YOUR CAREER

A few years ago, she was approached by a member of her

team—let’s call her Cynthia—who had just had her second child.

Cynthia asked if she could work at home on Fridays. The execu-

tive (a working mother herself) immediately said yes because she

knew that Cynthia—an eight-year veteran of the company—

would continue to deliver stellar results. She always had. In fact,

she was one of the hardest-working, most organized, and produc-

tive members of the staff.

After a week or two, word got around the office that Cynthia

was working from home on Fridays. Soon enough, my friend was

approached by a young guy—we’ll call him Carl—who had been

at the company for about a year with no distinguishing results. He

too wanted to work at home on Fridays. “I want to perfect my

yoga practice,”he explained.

When my friend said no, the conversation got very awkward.