SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Mergers and Acquisitions
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of selecting the right leaders and avoiding overpaying in mergers and acquisitions.
KEYWORDS: merger, acquisition, integration, leadership, valuation
---

RCA leaders to lead the merged organizations.

GE’s TV manufacturing business, for instance, was being run at

the time of the deal by a smart young CEO who had come into

the company through our business development staff. He was an

MBA and former consultant, and although he had a bit of a swag-

ger that he needed to be coached out of, his results were OK, and

we generally thought he had long-term potential as a leader,

which we’d told him more than once.

RCA’s TV business also had a very good CEO in place—he

was an old industry hand, with savvy and experience that our guy

was clearly lacking. He too had satisfactory performance and was a

clear candidate to run the larger, merged TV business. We could

have picked either CEO.

— 236 —

MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

But then there was Rick Miller. Rick was the CFO of RCA,

and he was a big leaguer—smart, fast, full of creativity and energy.

GE already had a great CFO, and it looked like Rick would need

to be let go as a result.

As much as we wanted to help out our manager in TV by

giving him the job, it just didn’t make sense. We ended up suggest-

ing that both the GE and RCA leaders find new jobs over the

coming months, and gave Rick the CEO position. The two who

left got great jobs elsewhere.

One last thought on people selection: in the most effective

integrations, it starts during negotiations, in fact, before the deal is

even signed. At JPMorgan Chase and Bank One, for instance,

twenty-five of the top managers were selected by the time the

merger was closed. That’s on the far extreme of a best practice, but

it is something to strive for.

The main point is, fight the conqueror syndrome. Think of a

merger as a huge talent grab—a people opportunity that would

otherwise take you years of searching and countless fees to head-

hunters. Don’t squander it. Make the tough calls and pick the very

best—whatever side they’re on.

The sixth pitfall is paying too much. Not 5 or 10 per-

cent too much, but so much that the premium can

never be recouped in the integration.

This pitfall is as old as the first marketplace. People are people;

when they want something that someone else wants, all reason can

disappear. Again, blame deal heat. This dynamic happens at yard

sales, and it happens on Wall Street.

I’m not talking, by the way, about overpaying by a few percent-

— 237 —

YOUR COMPETITION

age points. That kind of premium

If you miss a merger on can be made up for in a well-

executed integration. And in fact,

price, life goes on. There

leaving a little money on the table

is no last best deal.

can be helpful if it prevents the

residual acrimony that can slow an

integration.

I am talking, instead, about overpaying by so much you will

never make it back.

The most egregious recent example of this dynamic has to be

the Time Warner–AOL merger, in which a giant of a media com-

pany, with real assets and products, spent billions upon billions of

dollars too much on a distribution channel with unclear compet-

itive benefits. Amazingly, at the time, there was such excitement

about an illusory notion called “convergence” that just about

everyone jumped on the bandwagon. It was only after the failure

of the deal was obvious that Ted Turner, a board member who was

instrumental in promoting it, acknowledged on national TV that

he had never liked the deal in the first place. By then, such “cool-

headedness” was too late for Time Warner shareholders.

Of course, 2000 was a time when everybody was overpaying

for everything. In the publishing industry, for example, the Ger-

man media giant Gruner + Jahr paid an estimated $550 million for

two properties, Inc. and the New Economy magazine Fast Com-

pany. At the time, the purchase scared the daylights out of other

business magazines. But during the recession that followed, the

premium could only be seen for what it was—excessive. No inte-

gration in the world would ever make up for it, a fact to which a

crowd of deposed Gruner + Jahr executives would likely attest.

There is no real trick to avoiding overpayment, no calculation

you can use as a rule of thumb to know when a sum is too much.

— 238 —

MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

Just know that, except in very rare cases of industry consolidation,

if you miss a merger on price, life goes on. There will be another

deal.

There is no last best deal—there’s just deal heat that makes it

feel that way.

The seventh pitfall afflicts the acquired company’s

people from top to bottom—resistance. In a merger,

new owners will always select people with buy-in over

resisters with brains. If you want to survive, get over

your angst and learn to love the deal as much as

they do.

In October 2004, there was a glowing article in my hometown

paper, the Boston Globe, about a “thriving survivor” named Brian

T. Moynihan. Brian started his career at Fleet Bank in its mergers

and acquisitions division, then over fifteen-plus years, rose

through the ranks to run its wealth management business, which is

what he was doing when Bank of America bought Fleet in April

2004.

In the months after the merger was announced, many execu-

tives at Brian’s level were shown the door—not Brian. He was

promoted to run Bank of America’s entire wealth and investment

management division. In fact, Bank of America was so committed

to Moynihan, it moved a hundred or so of its wealth managers

from North Carolina to Boston to accommodate his leadership.

“It remains precisely unclear why Moynihan emerged on top

while colleagues fell,” the Globe said.

It wasn’t unclear to me. All you had to do was look at a quote