SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Leadership and Career Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses the career trajectory of a high-performing employee named Kevin, highlighting his skills, work ethic, and leadership potential.
KEYWORDS: leadership, career development, performance, teamwork, promotion
---

cal engineering from the U.S. Naval Academy, served a four-year

stint on nuclear attack submarines, and worked for two years at

McKinsey & Company. Without question, he was as smart as James

in terms of IQ.He was also industrious and,like James,ambitious,the

latter of these traits mitigated by his maturity. Kevin knew that GE

valued teamwork; he was the ultimate team player. He showed up

early, worked incredibly hard, and never looked for personal credit.

Kevin worked in business development for two years and spent

the next three years in operations. By that time, he was so univer-

sally respected we made a huge bet on him by offering him a

position as one of the company’s one hundred vice presidents,

running our marine and industrial turbine business.

Unfortunately, the same day that we tried to promote him,

Kevin told us he had decided to leave for a huge opportunity at

MCI. We tried desperately to keep him, but he was determined to

run his own show. He left MCI a few years later to become COO

of Amgen, and in 2000 was appointed its CEO. In the years since

Kevin joined Amgen, the company’s market capitalization has

grown from $7 billion to $84 billion.

It was obvious from the beginning that Kevin was a star. He

had everything going for him, starting with performance. And you

can be sure no one ever had to expend a drop of political capital

when they mentioned his name. No wonder his career has con-

sisted of one promotion after another.

— 285 —

YOUR CAREER

OTHER POLITICAL CAPITAL DRAINS

Along with transgressing company values, there is a related but

more egregious way that you can use up your boss’s political capi-

tal. It has to do with character—that is, with the kinds of behaviors

that can make people ask, “Hold on, can I really trust this person?”

Take lack of candor. As I mentioned earlier in the chapter on

candor, I’m not talking about boldface lying, but a tendency to

withhold information. That behavior is far more common, and it

frustrates teams and bosses to no end.

We had a manager in one of our larger businesses whose results

were quite good, but after several early promotions, his career hit a

wall. The reason was whenever he was in a business review or a

deal proposal session, we had to pepper him with about thirty

questions to get him to explain what was really going on. And

even then, we didn’t feel as if were getting the whole story. All we

got was hemming and hawing and then a hesitant “It’s OK now”

or a cagey-sounding “We’ve got it under control.”

At every HR review, I would ask his boss why this guy played

his cards so close to the vest. “It’s his personality” was the answer.

“He’s not a bad person. He just doesn’t like to open up.”

“What’s he hiding?” I asked. “Because when he withholds in-

formation the way he does, he just comes across as if he’s not

telling the truth. And I know I’m not the only one who feels that

way.”

“Yeah, that’s true. It bugs other people too. But he’s not lying.

He’s just guarded.”

“But we need to talk about the business openly.”

“Yeah, I know it’s frustrating. I’ll tell him again.”

And back and forth like that.

Eventually his boss got tired of the routine, and soon thereafter,

— 286 —

GETTING PROMOTED

the too-cagey manager was de-

moted. Career lust shows

The point is: Don’t make your

itself in tearing down

boss ask the perfect question to get

the people around you,

information from you. If you want

your character to stand up for you insulting or disparaging

and make life easy for your boss, them in order to make

open up and tell it like it is.

your own candle burn

There’s another behavior that

brighter.

will also force your boss to use po-

litical capital because it really alien-

ates people. It’s wearing your career

goals on your sleeve.

With most people, ambition is a positive thing—it’s fire in

the belly, it’s energy and optimism. It’s pushing yourself and the

organization forward so that everyone wins. Kevin Sharer had

plenty of this kind of drive, and so do most people who suc-

ceed.

Career lust looks different. It shows itself in tearing down the

people around you, insulting or disparaging them in order to

make your own candle burn brighter, as the old saying goes. It’s

covering up your mistakes or (worse) trying to blame them on

someone else. It’s hogging meetings, taking disproportionate

credit for team success, and gossiping incessantly about people

and events in the office. It’s seeing the company’s org chart as a

chessboard, and making an open display of watching the pieces

move.

If you’ve got this problem, your best hope is to repress it, fight

it, and keep it out of sight. If you don’t do that, when the time

comes to be promoted, there won’t be enough political capital in

the world to save you. It’s very hard to champion someone over

the clamor of objecting coworkers.

— 287 —

YOUR CAREER

FURTHERMORE . . .

We’ve just looked at the two biggest factors in getting you pro-

moted—getting great results while expanding your job’s horizons

and not using up your boss’s political capital.

That said, there are four other dos that certainly help too and

one don’t.

The dos are:

■ Manage your relationships with your

subordinates with the same carefulness that you

manage the one with your boss.

■ Get on the radar screen by being an early

champion of your company’s major projects or

initiatives.

■ Search out and relish the input of lots of

mentors, realizing that mentors don’t always look

like mentors.

■ Have a positive attitude and spread it around.

The don’t is:

■ Don’t let setbacks break your stride.

Let’s look at the dos first.