SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Leadership and Management
SUMMARY: The introduction discusses the origins of the book, which was inspired by the author's interactions with thousands of people interested in learning about running a successful business.
KEYWORDS: business management, leadership, GE, Jack Welch
---

Jack

Welch

with Suzy Welch

W I N

N I NG

To the thousands of men and women

who cared enough about business to raise their hands

The authors’ profits from this book are being donated to charity.

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

“Every Day,There Is a New Question” 1

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

1. MISSION AND VALUES

So Much Hot Air About Something So Real 13

2. CANDOR

The Biggest Dirty Little Secret in Business 25

3. DIFFERENTIATION

Cruel and Darwinian? Try Fair and Effective 37

4. VOICE AND DIGNITY

Every Brain in the Game 53

—v—

CONTENTS

YOUR COMPANY

5. LEADERSHIP

It’s Not Just About You 61

6. HIRING

What Winners Are Made Of 81

7. PEOPLE MANAGEMENT

You’ve Got the Right Players. Now What? 97

8. PARTING WAYS

Letting Go Is Hard to Do 119

9. CHANGE

Mountains Do Move 133

10.CRISIS MANAGEMENT

From Oh-God-No to Yes-We’re-Fine 147

YOUR COMPETITION

11. STRATEGY

It’s All in the Sauce 165

12.BUDGETING

Reinventing the Ritual 189

13. ORGANIC GROWTH

So You Want to Start Something New 205

14. MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

Deal Heat and Other Deadly Sins 217

15. SIX SIGMA

Better Than a Trip to the Dentist 245

— vi —

CONTENTS

YOUR CAREER

16. THE RIGHT JOB

Find It and You’ll Never Really Work Again 255

17. GETTING PROMOTED

Sorry, No Shortcuts 277

18. HARD SPOTS

That Damn Boss 299

19.WORK-LIFE BALANCE

Everything You Always Wanted to Know

About Having It All (But Were Afraid to Hear) 313

TYING UP LOOSE ENDS

20.HERE, THERE, AND EVERYWHERE

The Questions That Almost Got Away 339

Acknowledgments 360

Index 363

About the Author

OtherBooks by Jack Welch

Credits

Cover

Copyright

About the Publisher

— vii —

Introduction

“EVERY DAY, THERE IS

A NEW QUESTION”

AFTER I FINISHED my autobiography—a fun but crazily

intense grind that I wedged into the corners of my real job

at the time—I swore I’d never write another book again.

But I guess I did.

My excuse, if there is one, is that I didn’t actually come up with

the idea for this book.

It was given to me.

It was a retirement present, if you will, from the tens of thou-

sands of terrific people I have met since I left GE—the energized,

curious, gutsy, and ambitious men and women who have loved

business enough to ask me every possible question you could

imagine. In order to answer them, all I had to do was figure out

what I knew, sort it out, codify it, and borrow their stories—and

this book was off and running.

The questions I’m referring to first started during the promo-

tional tour for my autobiography in late 2001 and through much

of 2002, when I was overwhelmed by the emotional attachment

— 1 —

INTRODUCTION

people seemed to have to GE. From coast to coast, and in many

countries around the world, people told me touching stories

about their experiences working for the company, or what hap-

pened when their sister, dad, aunt, or grandfather did.

But with these stories, I was also surprised to hear how much

more people wanted to know about getting business right.

Radio call-in guests pressed me to explain GE’s system of

differentiation, which separates employees into three performance

categories and manages them up or out accordingly. People

attending book-signing events wanted to know if I really meant it

when I said the head of human resources at every company should

be at least as important as the CFO. (I did!) At a visit to the

University of Chicago business school, an MBA from India asked

me to explain more fully what a really good performance appraisal

should sound like.

The questions didn’t stop after the book tour. They contin-

ued—in airports, restaurants, and elevators. Once a guy swam over

to me in the surf off Miami Beach to ask me what I thought about

a certain franchise opportunity he was considering. But mainly

they’ve come at the 150 or so Q & A sessions I have participated

in over the past three years, in cities around the world from New

York to Shanghai, from Milan to Mexico City. In these sessions,

which have ranged from thirty to five thousand audience mem-

bers, I sit on a stage with a moderator, usually a business journalist,

and I try to answer anything the audience wants to throw at me.

And throw they have—questions about everything from cop-

ing with Chinese competition, to managing talented but difficult

people, to finding the perfect job, to implementing Six Sigma, to

hiring the right team, to leading in uncertain times, to surviving

mergers and acquisitions, to devising a killer strategy.

What should I do, I’ve heard, if I deliver great results but I work

for a jerk who doesn’t seem to care, or if I’m the only person in my

— 2 —

INTRODUCTION

company who thinks change is necessary, or if the budget process

in my company is full of sandbagging, or I’m about to launch a

great new product and headquarters doesn’t want to give me the

autonomy and resources I need?

What can I do, people have asked, if managers in my company

don’t really tell it like it is, or I have to let go of an employee I

really like but who just can’t hack it, or I have to help lead my orga-

nization through the crisis we’ve been trying to deal with for a year?

There have been questions about juggling the colliding

demands of kids, career, and all that other stuff you want to do, like

play golf, renovate your house, or raise money in a walkathon.

There have been questions about landing the promotion of your

dreams—without making any enemies. There have been ques-

tions about macroeconomic trends, emerging industries, and

currency fluctuations.

There have been literally thousands of questions. But most of

them come down to this:

What does it take to win?

And that is what this book is about—winning. Probably no