SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Change Management
SUMMARY: To drive change, companies must hire and promote true believers and get-on-with-it types who have the courage and fearlessness to champion and implement change.
KEYWORDS: change agents, change management, employee selection
---

2. Hire and promote only true believers and get-on-

with-it types.

— 138 —

CHANGE

Everyone in business claims they

like change; to say otherwise nowa- Real change agents

days would be career suicide. In fact,

comprise less than

it’s quite common to see someone

10 percent of all

describe himself as a “change agent”

right on his résumé. businesspeople. They

That’s ridiculous. have courage—

By my estimate, real change

a certain fearlessness

agents comprise less than 10 percent

about the unknown.

of all businesspeople. These are

the true believers who champion

change, know how to make it hap-

pen, and love every second of the process.

A significant majority—about 70 to 80 percent more—may

not lead the charge, but once they are convinced change is neces-

sary, they say, “OK already, get on with it.”

The rest are resisters.

To make change happen, companies must actively hire and

promote only true believers and get-on-with-its. But with every-

one claiming to like change, how can you tell who is for real?

Luckily, change agents usually make themselves known.

They’re typically brash, high-energy, and more than a little bit

paranoid about the future. Very often, they invent change initia-

tives on their own or ask to lead them. Invariably, they are curious

and forward-looking. They ask a lot of questions that start with

the phrase “Why don’t we ...?”

These people have courage—a certain fearlessness about the

unknown. Something in them makes it OK to operate without a

safety net. If they fail, they know they can pick themselves up, dust

themselves off, and move on. They’re thick-skinned about risk,

which allows them to make bold decisions without a lot of data.

This description makes me think immediately about Denis

— 139 —

YOUR COMPANY

Nayden, a managing partner with Oak Hill Capital Management,

whom I’ve known for more than twenty years. Denis joined GE

Capital in 1977, right out of the University of Connecticut, and

by 1989 was second in charge, helping Gary Wendt expand the

business from a few hundred million dollars in net income to

more than $5 billion in 2000. The best way to describe Denis is in-

tense, but extremely smart and fanatical about growth also work

well. He never saw a deal he couldn’t make better; he never saw

a routine or a process that couldn’t be unpicked, shaken up,

and improved. In fact, Denis always saw the status quo as some-

thing to be upended. And in doing so, he brought hundreds of

GE Capital’s deals to unparalleled heights of performance. He

always gave people a view beyond what they were—to what they

could be.

Now, Denis—like most change agents—is not always easy to

work for. He constantly asks questions, pushes people hard, and

just never settles. In the process, some people can feel threatened

or scared. But Denis is not a whatever-works, smooth-things-over

kind of person. Successful change agents rarely are.

The point here is that to make change, you need true believers

at the top, and get-on-with-it types everywhere else. Take the case

of Bob Nardelli at The Home Depot.

The Home Depot, like GE’s appliances business, was a com-

pany where the idea of change seemed ludicrous to most people

in the organization. When Bob arrived in December 2000, the

company looked perfect from the outside, and everyone inside

was thrilled with the level of earnings and growth. The founders

of the company had done a remarkable job of building the com-

pany from nothing, along the way sharing stock options with

thousands of employees, who loved the ride as the profits soared

through the 1990s.

But two things were happening that no one wanted to face.The

— 140 —

CHANGE

business had gotten big with few internal processes in place—care-

ful inventory tracking, stocking policies, and buying guidelines, to

name three—and was having trouble maintaining its competitive-

ness. Lowe’s, its principal competitor, was chipping away at Home

Depot’s lead with better service and more modern stores.

Bob was running the company for about a month when he

started boldly talking about these problems, using tons of data. But

few people at any level were buying his story of Home Depot as a

fixer-upper. Many employees from the good old days openly

pined for the times when the founders ran the company and

everyone was getting richer by the hour. Who could blame them

for the nostalgia?

But things had to change, and Bob knew that he couldn’t do

that with the team he had inherited. He quickly brought in his

own people—true believers—and promoted several longtime

employees whom he had identified as get-on-with-its. Together,

they put the missing processes into Home Depot and got growth

back into the company. Bob had no wind at his back, but he did

have the right people by his side.

3. Ferret out and remove the resisters, even if their

performance is satisfactory.

When it comes to making change, this is the hardest practice to

implement. In the last chapter, I talked about how hard it is to let

anyone go, but it is particularly difficult to fire people who are not

actually screwing up and may in fact be doing quite well.

But in any organization, as the Appliances and Home Depot

stories show, there is a core of people who absolutely will not ac-

cept change, no matter how good your case. Either their personal-

— 141 —

YOUR COMPANY

ities just can’t take it, or they are so entrenched—emotionally, in-

tellectually, or politically—in the way things are, they cannot see a

way to make them better.

These people usually have to go.

Maybe that sounds harsh, but you are doing no one a favor by

keeping resisters in your organization. They foster an under-

ground resistance and lower the morale of the people who sup-

port change. They waste their own time at a company where they

don’t share the vision, and they should be encouraged to find one