SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Operations Improvement
SUMMARY: The text discusses how GE adopted a 'boundaryless' mindset to improve its inventory turns by learning from its customer American Standard.
KEYWORDS: operations improvement, benchmarking, inventory turns, boundaryless, knowledge sharing
---

Once the ’80s arrived, we had no choice but to radically

broaden the NIH mind-set, and we did so by celebrating people

who not only invented things, but found great ideas anywhere and

shared them with everyone in the company. We came to call this

behavior “boundarylessness.” This awkward word basically

described an obsession with finding a better way—or a better

idea—whether its source was a colleague, another GE business, or

another company across the street or on the other side of the globe.

The impact of boundaryless thinking on our strategy imple-

mentation was enormous. Here’s just one example:

GE was always trying to improve its working capital usage;

we were always using too much, and increasing our inventory turns

would help. But try as we might with all sorts of programs and

tweaks, we just couldn’t seem to get our annual turns above four.

In September 1994, Manny Kampouris was scheduled to speak

at a dinner for the top thirty leaders in our company. At the time,

Manny was the chairman and CEO of American Standard, the

global plumbing and air-conditioning supply company and one of

the largest customers of our motors business.

You couldn’t help but notice that Manny wore a lapel pin

emblazoned with the number “15” at its center. And soon

enough, we all knew why.

For most of his talk that night, Manny regaled us with stories of

how they had drastically improved inventory turns at American

— 185 —

YOUR COMPETITION

Standard, a company that produced a broad and varied mix of

porcelain toilet bowls and sinks in factories in just about every

corner of the world. Manny and American Standard were obsessed

with inventory turns. The reason was simple: the company had

recently gone through a leveraged buyout, and cash flow was king.

Our team was awestruck. You could hear people thinking, if

American Standard can improve inventory turns with its product

mix and complicated manufacturing processes, why can’t we?

Before Manny could finish his talk, our business leaders were

peppering him with question after question.

But that was just the beginning.

What followed was an avalanche of GE people visiting Ameri-

can Standard facilities, meeting with foremen and factory

managers—all of them wearing lapel pins like Manny’s. There was

the occasional black sheep with a “10,” but many more plant man-

agers who wore pins boasting of twenty or twenty-five turns. We

crawled all over their plants and picked their brains.

They were happy to help. One thing I have learned from

boundarylessness over the years is that companies and their

people—if they’re not direct competitors, of course—love to

share success stories. All you have to do is ask.

The GE people who visited American Standard put what they

had learned into practice in their own businesses. Over the next

several years, these businesses adapted many of American Stan-

dard’s processes to GE, and continu-

ally innovated and shared with each

Companies and their other. It worked. By 2000, GE’s

inventory turns had more than

people love to share

doubled, freeing up billions of dol-

success stories. All you

lars of cash.

have to do is ask.

Over the years, GE borrowed

great ideas with visits to Wal-Mart

— 186 —

STRATEGY

and Toyota and dozens of other companies.We also borrowed ideas

from one another. At our quarterly meeting of business leaders, we

asked attendees to present their best practice that others could use.

If a leader tried to present a practice that wasn’t applicable to the

other businesses, we would give him the hook.

It was in that way that the junior military officer recruit-

ing program, which started in Transportation and spread to every

corner of the company, and Internet-selling techniques that

helped Plastics reach its customers, made their way to Medical

Systems and beyond. The list of these best practice transfers goes

on and on.

And it’s hardly exclusive to GE. Yum! Brands Inc. is a case in

point. Yum! is a 1997 spinoff from PepsiCo composed of five

consumer restaurant brands—KFC, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut, Long

John Silver’s, and A&W All American Food—with more than

thirty-three thousand total outlets. Yum!’s CEO, David Novak, is

an enormous believer in best practice transfer and considers each

outlet an individual laboratory of ideas. David told me recently

that he considered the major advantage to “bulking up”—in other

words, adding chains and outlets—is to share learning. Otherwise,

he said, size is just a drag.

Here’s what he means. A couple of years ago, Taco Bell was

rated fifteenth in service for drive-in restaurants, with customer

service time of 240 seconds, or four minutes, per order. The chain

introduced a new process, and within two years, managed to

bring that number down to 148 seconds, making it No. 2 in the

drive-through industry. Immediately, the Taco Bell practice was

transferred to KFC, and last year, its customer service time moved

from tenth to eighth—211 seconds to 180 seconds, a full half-

minute improvement.

I could tell you many other stories about how Yum!’s “labora-

tories” have spawned new processes, and how they have spread to

— 187 —

YOUR COMPETITION

improve all of its businesses. However, to make a long story short,

I’ll just give you the results. Even with the tough economy, in the

seven years since its spinoff, Yum!’s market capitalization has

jumped from $4.2 billion to $13.5 billion. Mainly because of ideas

being shared and stretched!

A focus on best practices may not sound like strategy, but try

implementing strategy without it.

Best practices are not only integral to making strategy happen,

they are a sustainable competitive advantage if you continually im-

prove them, with if being the key word here.

That’s not just a mind-set. It’s a religion.

■

The other evening we were eating at Torch, a wonderful little

restaurant one door down from Upper Crust Pizza, and from our

seats in the window, we could see its delivery people on bikes, in