SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Public Education Reform
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges and personal significance of Joel's role as chancellor of the New York City public school system, a position that involves deconstructing bureaucracy and confronting entrenched interests.
KEYWORDS: public education, education reform, bureaucracy, personal significance
---

media company.

There is no glamour and very limited glory in the school

reform job Joel accepted in 2002. It goes without saying he took a

massive pay cut to become chancellor, but in taking the job, Joel

also agreed to deconstruct an insanely bureaucratic system with

about a million students in more than 1,300 schools and a $15 bil-

lion budget. He immediately encountered entrenched interests,

including fierce union leaders who were hell-bent on keeping the

status quo, but in the face of that, he remained steadfast. Virtually

every day, Joel appears in one of the New York papers, and because

everyone has an opinion on education, he is often the subject of

editorials, both laudatory and critical.

Joel could not love his work more.

“Sometimes I ask myself, ‘What am I doing here? I could be

eating a very nice, civilized lunch in a corporate dining room right

now, and instead I’m in a high-crime school trying to get staff to

work together to enforce our discipline code,’ ” Joel once told me.

“But I grew up in public housing in Queens, and I’m a product of

inner city New York public schools. I owe a lot to the principals

and teachers who invested their lives

in the system and changed my life and

If a job doesn’t excite the vision of my opportunities. I’m

you on some level—just lucky enough to be in a position to

give something back. I don’t want to

because of the stuff

sound pompous, but this work feels

of it—don’t settle.

more important than anything I’ve

ever done.”

— 268 —

THE RIGHT JOB

On a much smaller scale, I know what he means about a job

feeling meaningful. My work always felt really significant, even

when (in retrospect) it was hardly that. I’ll never forget when I was

a teaching assistant at the University of Illinois and I was asked to

present my PhD thesis on dropwise condensation to an interna-

tional conference on heat transfer that was being held in Boulder,

Colorado. You would have thought I was in the running for the

Nobel Prize. I was a nervous wreck before my lecture and prac-

ticed for weeks. When the big day arrived, I spoke—and received

the polite applause I deserved.That didn’t stop me from rushing to

the phone to call my mother in a state of complete exhilaration.

To tell you the truth, I still remember the excitement of

that day!

Luckily, finding a job that touches your core is not hard. Such

jobs are everywhere—every piece of work has the potential, since

it only has to feel important to you. Shortly after I retired from GE,

we were in Montreal, eating dinner at a small French restaurant,

where we fell into conversation with a fellow tourist.Within a few

minutes, we learned that this fellow was “the first mercury-free

dentist in Quechee, Vermont.” You could feel the pride bursting

out of his chest. I didn’t want to suddenly start a second career as a

dentist, but his enthusiasm sure was infectious.

As I said before, every job has its ups and downs. But if a job

doesn’t excite you on some level—just because of the stuff of it—

don’t settle. And don’t worry either about knowing when you

find a job with meaning.

You’ll feel it.

THOSE SPECIAL CASES

The job fit signals can be applied across pretty much all job situa-

tions, but a couple of special cases call for more specific discussion.

— 269 —

YOUR CAREER

The first is finding your first real job. For a few lucky

people, this process is relatively straightforward. They’ve got great

grades from a quality school and some impressive work experi-

ence along the way. These new graduates, out of college or recent

MBAs, usually have plenty of options, and I hope the signals in this

chapter will be helpful in choosing wisely.

Many people, however, do not get their pick of first job assign-

ments. Their school record is only OK, their job experience not

particularly special. That puts them in a position where they have

to sell themselves to an audience that ranges from skeptical to

downright negative.

If you’re in that category, my strong advice is just be real and

come clean.

There is nothing less appealing than an applicant with a so-so

record overselling himself with a lot of bravado or overeagerness.

It’s just so phony, and experienced managers can smell the fakery a

mile away.

The best thing you can do is tell your true story. “OK, I know

my grades aren’t that great,” you might say. “I spent a lot of time

playing intramural sports and, to be honest, a lot of time with my

friends. I definitely could have studied more, but I had other pri-

orities, which probably weren’t the best ones. The reason you

should still hire me is because I never give up on a challenge, I

work hard, I believe in your product, and I admire your company,

and I know I can contribute here.”

While you’re telling your true

story, act like your true self. If you

are generally outspoken and funny,

Authenticity may be

don’t act stiff and serious during

the best selling point

your interviews. If you are a nerd,

you’ve got.

don’t try to act slick. The company

should know what it’s getting, and

— 270 —

THE RIGHT JOB

you should show them, so you see how they react. I know of an

MBA who tripped over a doorjamb on her way into an interview

with three executives at a prestigious consulting firm. After scram-

bling back to her feet, she shook hands with her interviewers,

saying, “And I’m Grace, the ballet teacher.”

None of them cracked a smile, nor did they try to put her at

ease after what was obviously an embarrassing moment. She

ended up being offered the job; she declined.