SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Mission and Values
SUMMARY: The author discusses the importance of setting a clear mission for a company, which must be the responsibility of top management, and how values should be created collaboratively across the organization.
KEYWORDS: mission, values, organizational leadership, employee engagement, strategic planning
---

Now, it is possible that in 1981 we could have come up with an

entirely different mission for GE. Say after lots of debate and an

in-depth analysis of technology, competitors, and customers,we had

decided we wanted to become the most innovative designer of elec-

trical products in the world. Or say we had decided that our most

profitable route would have been to quickly and thoroughly global-

ize every business we had, no matter what its market position.

Either of these missions would have sent GE off on an entirely

different road from the one we

took. They would have required us

to buy and sell different businesses

Setting the mission

than we did, or hire and let go of

is top management’s

different people, and so forth. But

responsibility. A mission technically, I have no argument with

cannot be delegated them as missions. They are concrete

and specific. Without doubt, the

to anyone except the

electrical products mission would

people ultimately held

have come as a comfort to most

accountable for it. people in GE. After all, that’s what

most thought we were. The global

— 16 —

MISSION AND VALUES

focus mission would have probably alarmed others. Rapid change

usually does.

A final word about missions, and it concerns their creation.

How do you come up with one?

To me, this is a no-brainer. You can get input from anywhere—

and you should listen to smart people from every quarter. But set-

ting the mission is top management’s responsibility. A mission

cannot, and must not, be delegated to anyone except the people

ultimately held accountable for it.

In fact, a mission is the defining moment for a company’s lead-

ership.

It’s the true test of its stuff.

. . . AND NOW ABOUT THOSE VALUES

As I said earlier, values are just behaviors—specific, nitty-gritty,

and so descriptive they leave little to the imagination. People must

be able to use them as marching orders because they are the how of

the mission, the means to the end—winning.

In contrast to the creation of a mission, everyone in a company

should have something to say about values.Yes, that can be a messy

undertaking. That’s OK. In a small enterprise, everyone can be in-

volved in debating them in all kinds of meetings. In a larger orga-

nization, it’s a lot tougher. But you can use company-wide

meetings, training sessions, and the like, for as much personal dis-

cussion as possible, and the intranet for broader input.

Getting more participation really makes a difference, giving

you more insights and more ideas, and at the end of the process,

most importantly, much more extensive buy-in.

The actual process of creating values, incidentally, has to be it-

erative. The executive team may come up with a first version, but

— 17 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

it should be just that, a first version. Such a document should go

out to be poked and probed by people all over an organization,

over and over again. And the executive team has to go out of their

way to be sure they’ve created an atmosphere where people feel it

is their obligation to contribute.

Now, if you’re in a company where speaking up gets you

whacked, this method of developing values just isn’t going

to work. I understand that, and as long as you stay, you’re going to

have to live with that generic plaque in the front hall.

But if you’re at a company that does welcome debate—and

many do—shame on you if you don’t contribute to the process. If

you want values and behaviors that you understand and can live

with yourself, you have to make the case for them.

IT’S IN THE NITTY-GRITTY DETAILS

When I first became CEO, I was certainly guilty of endorsing

vague, too cryptic values. For instance, in 1981, I wrote in the an-

nual report that GE leaders “face reality”and “live excellence” and

“feel ownership.” These platitudes sure sounded good, but they

had a long way to go toward describing real behaviors.

By 1991, we had made a lot of progress. Over the course of the

previous three years, more than five thousand employees spent

some portion of their time participating in the development of

our values. The result was much more concrete. We printed them

on laminated wallet cards. The text included imperatives such

as “Act in a boundaryless fashion—always search for and apply

the best ideas regardless of their source” and “Be intolerant of

bureaucracy” and “See change for the growth opportunity it

brings.”

Of course, some of these behaviors required further explana-

— 18 —

MISSION AND VALUES

tion and interpretation. And we did that all the time, at meetings,

during appraisals, and at the watercooler.

Since leaving GE, I’ve realized how much further still we

might have been able to push the discussion about values and be-

haviors. In 2004, I watched Jamie Dimon and Bill Harrison work

together to develop values and behaviors for the new company

created by the merger of Bank One and JPMorgan Chase. The

document they used to open the dialogue came from Bank One,

and it listed values and their corresponding behaviors with a level

of detail I had never seen before.

Take the value “We treat customers the way we would want to

be treated.” That’s pretty tangible, but Bank One had literally

identified the ten or twelve behaviors that made that value come

to life. Here are some of them:

■ Never let profit center conflicts get in the way of

doing what is right for the customer.

■ Give customers a good, fair deal. Great customer

relationships take time. Do not try to maximize

short-term profits at the expense of building those

enduring relationships.

■ Always look for ways to make it easier to do

business with us.

■ Communicate daily with your customers. If they

are talking to you, they can’t be talking to a

competitor.

■ Don’t forget to say thank you.