SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Career Development
SUMMARY: Careers are shaped by both chance and factors within one's control, and getting promoted requires a combination of hard work, skills, and strategic thinking.
KEYWORDS: career advancement, luck, self-improvement, promotion, professional development
---

they appear, are shaped by some element of pure chance.

Sometimes a person just happens to be in the right place at the

right time, and he meets someone—at an airport or a party, for

instance—and a career door swings

open. We’ve all heard stories like

All careers, no matter

that.

how scripted they Sometimes we don’t even know

luck is good until well after the fact.

appear, are shaped by

An old golfing friend of mine,

some element of pure

Perry Ruddick, remembers being

chance.

sorely disappointed when he was

passed over for a promotion that was

— 278 —

GETTING PROMOTED

in France early in his career at the investment bank Smith Barney.

He thought he had missed out on his best shot at making a name

for himself in the company, not to mention the glamour of Paris in

1966.

As luck would have it, two years after Perry would have left for

the assignment abroad, another position at the company came

open in New York, and he got it. In his new role, Perry, then

thirty-two, got to run the company’s investment banking opera-

tions, and with a team of forward-thinking young bankers, he

helped guide the company successfully through a challenging

period of consolidation in the industry.

To make a long story short, Perry was vice-chairman of Smith

Barney from 1985 until his retirement in 1991.

But luck can also break the other way. Sometimes careers stall

for no reason at all except bad timing. At the very least, careers can

zig and zag for reasons beyond your control, like an acquisition or

divestiture, or a new boss with very different ideas about your

future. Occasionally, you miss out on a promotion because of

office politics or nepotism. Such setbacks can be terribly disheart-

ening—enough to make you ask yourself, “Why the heck should

I even try?”

Don’t go there.

In the long run, luck plays a smaller role in your career than the

factors that are within your control.

While I never sorted these factors out while I was working, I

have thought a lot more about them lately because audiences ask

so many career questions. They come in every variety:

■ “I like my staff job at headquarters, but I

want to move into operations.What do I need

to do to convince my boss I can make the

change?”

— 279 —

YOUR CAREER

■ “I don’t have any chemistry with my mentor, but

she’s really important at my company. How can I get

ahead when I don’t have someone pulling for me?”

■ “I’m in manufacturing, but I want to move into

marketing.Will I ever get out of the factory?”

Career concerns, incidentally, are not confined to any one country

or type of industry. In China, with its nascent market economy

and “egalitarian” culture, business people are fiercely curious

when they ask: “What does it take to get ahead?” And the same

question has come at me in Portugal, France, Denmark, and even

Slovakia, where capitalism is less than fifteen years old.

I think the same answer applies everywhere.

Basically, getting promoted takes one do and one don’t.

■ Do deliver sensational performance, far beyond

expectations, and at every opportunity expand your

job beyond its official boundaries.

■ Don’t make your boss use political capital in

order to champion you.

These imperatives are not everything, of course. There are four

other dos and one other don’t, and we’ll look at them in turn, but

first let’s focus on the two big ones.

THE POWER OF POSITIVE SURPRISE

When most people think about delivering sensational perfor-

mance, they imagine beating agreed-upon performance goals.

That’s all well and good.

— 280 —

GETTING PROMOTED

But an even more effective way to get promoted is to expand

your job’s horizons to include bold and unexpected activities.

Come up with a new concept or process that doesn’t improve just

your results, but your unit’s results and the company’s overall

performance. Change your job in a way that makes the people

around you work better and your boss look smarter. Don’t just do

the predictable.

I learned this lesson for myself my first year at GE, while I was

still working in the laboratory, developing a new plastic called

PPO. A vice president was coming to town, and my boss asked me

to give him an update on our progress. Eager to impress both

of them, I stayed late at work for a week, analyzing not only the

economics of PPO, but of all the other engineering plastics in the

industry. My final report included a five-year outlook, comparing

the costs of products made by DuPont, Celanese, and Monsanto,

and outlined a clear route to a competitive advantage for GE.

My boss and the VP were surprised, to put it mildly, and their

incredibly positive response showed me the impact of giving

people more than they expect.

I would see this dynamic again and again over the next forty

years.

Take the case of John Krenicki, who made everyone around

and above him look better by expanding his job’s horizons.

GE sent John to Europe to manage its $100 million silicones

business in 1997. It was by no means a plum assignment, but it gave

John a chance to run his own show. The business, while No. 2

globally, was a weak No. 6 in the European market, mainly because

its biggest cost—raw materials—had to be sourced from the

United States. It just could not compete with the local players.

Back at headquarters, everyone would have been happy if John

had grown silicones by 8 to 10 percent a year by pulling the usual

levers: on-time delivery to existing customers, finding new ones,

— 281 —

YOUR CAREER

and developing new products. But John had bigger ideas. He pro-

posed building a new plant in Europe to produce his key raw

material.

The price tag was well over $100 million. We said, “No way.”