SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Crisis Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of full disclosure and transparency during a crisis, using examples from businesses and the media industry.
KEYWORDS: crisis management, full disclosure, transparency, credibility, trust
---

lawyers to let you say as much as you can. Just make sure that what

you do say is the total truth, with no shades of gray.

Cases of full disclosure in business abound, but Johnson &

Johnson probably set the gold standard with its handling of the

Tylenol crisis in the 1980s. It held press conferences every day, and

sometimes more than once, to de-

scribe the situation and its scope. It

During a crisis, your

opened its packaging factories up

lawyers will tell you

for scrutiny, and kept the public

to say less, not more. posted on a frequent basis on its in-

vestigation of the problem and its

That advice is not all

recall efforts.

wrong. But don’t take

But perhaps some of the best

it as gospel.

examples of full disclosure come

from the newspaper industry. In

— 156 —

CRISIS MANAGEMENT

1980, the Washington Post ran a detailed series describing how one

of its reporters, Janet Cooke, managed to fool her editors, the pub-

lic, and the Pulitzer Prize jury into believing a horrific tale of an

eight-year-old heroin addict.

Or take the New York Times and its coverage of Jayson Blair, its

reporter who fabricated numerous articles. The paper put its best

investigative reporters on the case, and their articles left no part of

the story untouched. The paper’s own practices and leaders were

challenged so thoroughly and personally that at times the coverage

felt like an unedited family movie.

And yet, in the end, it was the Times’ transparency during the

crisis that saved its credibility. The more it said about Jayson Blair’s

falsifications, the more people trusted it—not less. The more it re-

vealed the internal dynamics that let Blair’s lying slip by, the more

people knew the paper was invested in finding a solution to the

underlying problems that caused the breach.

The same is true during any crisis. The more openly you speak

about the problem, its causes, and its solutions, the more trust you

earn from everyone watching, inside the organization and out.

And during a crisis, trust is what you need at every turn.

Assumption 3: You and your organization’s handling of

the crisis will be portrayed in the worst possible light. In

some industries, insiders keep score by market share. In others,

they keep score by revenue growth, or number of new franchises

opened in a year, or customer satisfaction figures.

In journalism, they keep score by toppled empires and naked

emperors. The profession’s calling, as it were, is to question au-

thority in its every form.

I speak, of course, from experience! During my very public di-

vorce in 2002, a controversy erupted around the perks that made

up my retention contract, and the media had a field day. But that

was hardly the first time I’d gotten my clock cleaned by the press.

— 157 —

YOUR COMPANY

Not long after I was made CEO, during a period of wide-scale

layoffs, I got labeled Neutron Jack, after the bomb that leaves

buildings standing but kills people. A year later, I was named one

of the toughest bosses in America, and believe me, the implication

was not positive. During the Kidder Peabody crisis in 1994, I ap-

peared on the cover of Fortune magazine under the headline

“Jack’s Nightmare on Wall Street.” The article included a thesis

about the cultural breakdown at Kidder Peabody brought on by

earnings pressure from GE.

Public skewerings are awful—you’re indignant and enraged.

But no matter how innocent you think you are, or how superbly

you think your organization is handling its troubles, it doesn’t

matter. Reporters are not in the business of telling your side

of the story. They are in the business of telling the story as they

see it.

That’s the way the business works, and during normal times,

you’re usually happy for the good read that journalists provide.

And in my case, over the course of my career, I got more than my

fair share of positive media coverage.

But during a crisis, all bets are off. You and your organization

will be portrayed in a light so nega-

tive you won’t recognize yourselves.

Don’t hunker down.

Your lack of visibility will

You may want to, but you can’t.

be taken as an admission

Along with disclosing the full ex-

of guilt, the same way

tent of your problem as we discussed

it looks to laypeople in the previous assumption, you’ve

got to stand up and define your po-

when someone does

sition before someone else does. If

not take the stand in

you don’t, your lack of visibility will

his own defense.

be taken as an admission of guilt, the

same way it looks to lay people

— 158 —

CRISIS MANAGEMENT

(albeit not lawyers!) when someone

does not take the stand in his own With big crises, don’t

defense.

ever forget you have a

Now, not all organizational crises

business to run.

have a public face. A middle man-

ager leaves and takes his team with

him. The reorganization of a busi-

ness or unit causes enormous upset and turmoil. A big

customer defects with complaints about your service. A fired

employee makes angry charges of discrimination by senior man-

agement.

Even if the media has no interest in these events, your people

will.

The same principles still apply.

Openly discuss the situation. Define your position. Explain

why the problem happened and how you are handling it.

And just as with big, public crises, don’t ever forget you have a

business to run. Make sure you are running it.

Assumption 4: There will be changes in processes and

people. Almost no crisis ends without blood on the floor.

Most crises officially end with a settlement of some kind—finan-

cial, legal, or otherwise.

Then comes the cleanup, and cleanups mean change.

Processes usually get overhauled first.

With the time card situation, for instance, we instituted Policy

20.11, which formalized all dealings with the government. The