SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Business Mission and Values
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of clear, concrete mission statements and values (or behaviors) that guide a company's strategy and actions.
KEYWORDS: mission statement, business values, company strategy, business planning, corporate culture
---

2. CANDOR

The Biggest Dirty Little Secret in Business 25

3. DIFFERENTIATION

Cruel and Darwinian? Try Fair and Effective 37

4. VOICE AND DIGNITY

Every Brain in the Game 53

1

Mission and Values

SO MUCH HOT AIR ABOUT

SOMETHING SO REAL

BEAR WITH ME, if you will, while I talk about mission

and values.

I say that because these two terms have got to be among the

most abstract, overused, misunderstood words in business. When I

speak with audiences, I’m asked about them frequently, usually

with some level of panic over their actual meaning and relevance.

(In New York, I once got the question “Can you please define the

difference between a mission and a value, and also tell us what dif-

ference that difference makes?”) Business schools add to the con-

fusion by having their students regularly write mission statements

and debate values, a practice made even more futile for being car-

ried out in a vacuum. Lots of companies do the same to their sen-

ior executives, usually in an attempt to create a noble-sounding

plaque to hang in the company lobby.

Too often, these exercises end with a set of generic platitudes

that do nothing but leave employees directionless or cynical. Who

doesn’t know of a mission statement that reads something like,

— 13 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

“XYZ Company values quality and service,” or, “Such-and-Such

Company is customer-driven.” Tell me what company doesn’t

value quality and service or focus on its customers! And who

doesn’t know of a company that has spent countless hours in emo-

tional debate only to come up with values that, despite the good

intentions that went into them, sound as if they were plucked from

an all-purpose list of virtues including “integrity, quality, excel-

lence, service, and respect.” Give me a break—every decent com-

pany espouses these things! And frankly, integrity is just a ticket to

the game. If you don’t have it in your bones, you shouldn’t be al-

lowed on the field.

By contrast, a good mission statement and a good set of values

are so real they smack you in the face with their concreteness. The

mission announces exactly where you are going, and the values

describe the behaviors that will get you there. Speaking of that, I

prefer abandoning the term values altogether in favor of just behav-

iors. But for the sake of tradition, let’s stick with the common ter-

minology.

FIRST: ABOUT THAT MISSION . . .

In my experience, an effective mission statement basically answers

one question: How do we intend to win in this business?

It does not answer: What were we good at in the good old

days? Nor does it answer: How can we describe our business

so that no particular unit or division or senior executive gets

pissed off?

Instead, the question “How do we intend to win in this busi-

ness?” is defining. It requires companies to make choices about

people, investments, and other resources, and it prevents them

from falling into the common mission trap of asserting they will

be all things to all people at all times. The question forces compa-

— 14 —

MISSION AND VALUES

nies to delineate their strengths and weaknesses in order to assess

where they can profitably play in the competitive landscape.

Yes,profitably—that’s the key. Even Ben & Jerry’s,the crunchy-

granola, hippy, save-the-world ice cream company based in

Vermont, has “profitable growth” and “increasing value for stake-

holders” as one of the elements of its three-part mission statement

because its executives know that without financial success, all the

social goals in the world don’t have a chance.

That’s not saying a mission shouldn’t be bold or aspirational.

Ben & Jerry’s, for instance, wants to sell “all natural ice cream and

euphoric concoctions” and “improve the quality of life locally, na-

tionally and internationally.” That kind of language is great in that

it absolutely has the power to excite people and motivate them to

stretch.

At the end of the day, effective mission statements balance the

possible and the impossible. They give people a clear sense of the

direction to profitability and the inspiration to feel they are part of

something big and important.

Take our mission at GE as an example. From 1981 through

1995, we said we were going to be “the most competitive enter-

prise in the world” by being No. 1 or No. 2 in every market—

fixing, selling, or closing every underperforming business that

couldn’t get there. There could be no doubt about what this

mission meant or entailed. It was specific and descriptive, with

nothing abstract going on. And it

was aspirational, too, in its global

ambition. Effective mission

This mission came to life in a

statements balance

bunch of different ways.First off,in a

the possible and the

time when business strategy was

impossible.

mainly kept in an envelope in head-

quarters and any information about

— 15 —

UNDERNEATH IT ALL

it was the product of the company gossip mill, we talked openly

about which businesses were already No. 1 or No. 2, and which

businesses had to get repaired quickly or be gone. Such candor

shocked the system, but it did wonders for making the mission real

to our people. They may have hated it when businesses were sold,

but they understood why.

Moreover, we harped on the mission constantly, at every meet-

ing large and small. Every decision or initiative was linked to the

mission. We publicly rewarded people who drove the mission and

let go of people who couldn’t deal with it for whatever reason,

usually nostalgia for their business in the “good old days.”

Now, it is possible that in 1981 we could have come up with an

entirely different mission for GE. Say after lots of debate and an

in-depth analysis of technology, competitors, and customers,we had

decided we wanted to become the most innovative designer of elec-