SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Leadership Principles
SUMMARY: Leaders must balance short-term and long-term results, and perform daily balancing acts to manage paradoxical rules and challenges.
KEYWORDS: leadership, management principles, performance management
---

My answer is, “Welcome to the job!”

Look, anyone can manage for the short term—just keep

squeezing the lemon. And anyone can manage for the long—just

keep dreaming. You were made a leader because someone

believed you could squeeze and dream at the same time. They saw

in you a person with enough insight, experience, and rigor to

balance the conflicting demands of short- and long-term results.

Performing balancing acts every day is leadership.

Take rule 3 and rule 6. One says you should show positive

energy and optimism, showering your people with a can-do atti-

tude. The other says you should constantly question your people

and take nothing they say for granted.

Or take rule 5 and rule 7. One says you need to act like a boss,

asserting authority. The other says you need to admit mistakes and

embrace people who take risks, especially when they fail.

Of course, life would be easier if leadership was just a list of

simple rules, but paradoxes are inherent to the trade.

That’s part of the fun of leading, though—each day is a chal-

lenge. It is a brand-new chance to get better at a job that, when all

is said and done, you can never be perfect at.

You can only give it everything you’ve got.

Here’s how.

— 64 —

LEADERSHIP

RULE 1. Leaders relentlessly upgrade their team,

using every encounter as an opportunity to evaluate,

coach, and build self-confidence.

After the Boston Red Sox finally broke an eighty-six–year

drought and won the World Series, you couldn’t turn on the TV

or open a paper without hearing speculation as to why 2004 was

“the year.” There were theories about everything, from center-

fielder Johnny Damon’s hairstyle to the lunar eclipse!

Most people agreed, however, that the reason wasn’t mysteri-

ous at all. The Red Sox had the best players. The pitching staff was

the league’s best, the fielders were good enough, and the hitters

...well, they were sensational. And they were all bound together

by a winning spirit so palpable you could feel it in the air.

There are lucky breaks and bad calls in any season, but the team

with the best players usually does win. And that is why, very sim-

ply, you need to invest the vast majority of your time and energy as

a leader in three activities.

■ You have to evaluate—making sure the right

people are in the right jobs, supporting and

advancing those who are, and moving out those who

are not.

■ You have to coach—guiding, critiquing, and

helping people to improve their performance in

every way.

■ And finally, you have to build self-confidence—

pouring out encouragement, caring, and recognition.

— 65 —

YOUR COMPANY

Self-confidence energizes, and it gives your people

the courage to stretch, take risks, and achieve

beyond their dreams. It is the fuel of winning teams.

Too often, managers think that people development occurs once a

year in performance reviews. That’s not even close.

People development should be a daily event, integrated into

every aspect of your regular goings-on.

Take budget reviews. They are a perfect occasion to focus on

people. That’s right, people. Yes, you need to talk about the busi-

ness and its results, but in a budget review you can really see team

dynamics in action. If everyone around the table sits silent and

frozen while the team leader pontificates, you’ve got some serious

coaching to do. If everyone’s involved in the presentation and the

whole team is alive, you’ve got a great opportunity to give imme-

diate feedback that you like what you see. If the team has a real star

or a dud in its midst, share your impressions with its leader as soon

as you can.

There is no event in your day that cannot be used for people

development.

Customer visits are a chance to evaluate your sales force. Plant

tours are an opportunity to meet

promising new line managers and

Take every opportunity

see if they have the ability to run

to inject self-confidence

something bigger. A coffee break at

into those who have a meeting is an opening to coach a

team member who is about to give

earned it. Use ample

his first major presentation.

praise, the more specific

And remember in all these

the better.

encounters, evaluating and coach-

ing are great, but building self-

— 66 —

LEADERSHIP

confidence is, in the end, probably the most important thing you

can do. Take every opportunity to inject self-confidence into

those who have earned it. Use ample praise, the more specific the

better.

Besides its huge impact on upgrading the team, the best thing

about using every encounter for people development is how

much fun it is. Instead of mind-numbing meetings about numbers

and plant tours showing off new machines, every day is about

growing people. In fact, think of yourself as a gardener, with a

watering can in one hand and a can of fertilizer in the other.

Occasionally you have to pull some weeds, but most of the time,

you just nurture and tend.

Then watch everything bloom.

RULE 2. Leaders make sure people not only see the

vision, they live and breathe it.

It goes without saying that leaders have to set the team’s vision and

most do. But there’s so much more to the “vision thing” than that.

As a leader, you have to make the vision come alive.

How do you achieve that? First of all, no jargon. Goals cannot

sound noble but vague. Targets cannot be so blurry they can’t be

hit. Your direction has to be so vivid that if you randomly woke

one of your employees in the middle of the night and asked him,

“Where are we going?” he could still answer in a half-asleep stu-

por,“We’re going to keep improving our service to individual

contractors and expand our market by aggressively reaching out to

small wholesalers.”