SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Management
SUMMARY: The author discusses an alternative approach to strategy that emphasizes action over extensive analysis and a learning culture over complex frameworks.
KEYWORDS: strategy, competitive advantage, learning organization, big aha, best practices
---

yourself in knots about what to do.

That’s not strategy, that’s suffering.

Now, I don’t want to write off strategy gurus. Some of their

concepts have merit.

But I do want to disagree with the scientific approach to strat-

egy that they propagate. It is taught in many business schools,

peddled by countless consulting firms, and practiced in far too

many corporate headquarters.

It’s just so unproductive! If you want to win, when it comes to

strategy, ponder less and do more.

I’m certainly not alone in this view. In speaking with many

thousands of businesspeople around the world, I can count the

number of strategy questions on one hand. Virtually every other

topic—from managing a temperamental employee to the dollar’s

effect on trade—gets more interest by orders of magnitude.

Obviously, everyone cares about strategy. You have to. But

most managers I know see strategy as I do—an approximate

course of action that you frequently revisit and redefine, according

to shifting market conditions. It is an iterative process and not

nearly as theoretical or life-and-death as some would have you

believe.

Given this view, you may be wondering what I’m going to say

in this chapter.

The answer is, nothing that’s going to get me tenure!

— 166 —

STRATEGY

Instead, I’m going to describe how to do strategy in three steps.

Over my career, this approach worked incredibly well across var-

ied businesses and industries, in upturns and downturns, and in

competitive situations from Mexico to Japan. Who knows—

maybe its simplicity was part of its success.

The steps are:

First, come up with a big aha for your business—a

smart, realistic, relatively fast way to gain sustainable com-

petitive advantage. I don’t know any better way to come up

with this big aha than by answering a set of questions I have long

called the Five Slides, because each set fits roughly onto one page.

This assessment process should take a group of informed people

somewhere between a couple of days and a month.

Second, put the right people in the right jobs to drive

the big aha forward. This may sound generic; it’s not. To drive

your big aha forward, you need to match certain kinds of people

with commodity businesses and a different type entirely with

high-value-added businesses. I don’t like to pigeonhole, but the

fact is, you get a lot more bang for your buck when strategy and

skills fit.

Third, relentlessly seek out the best practices to achieve

your big aha, whether inside or out, adapt them, and con-

tinually improve them. Strategy is unleashed when you have a

learning organization where people thirst to do everything better

every day. They draw on best practices from anywhere, and push

them to ever-higher levels of effectiveness. You can have the best

big aha in the world, but without this learning culture in place, any

sustainable competitive advantage will not last.

Strategy, then, is simply finding the big aha and setting a broad

direction, putting the right people behind it, and then executing

with an unyielding emphasis on continual improvement.

I couldn’t make it more complicated than that if I tried.

— 167 —

YOUR COMPETITION

SO WHAT IS STRATEGY?

Before we look at each of the three steps in some detail, a few

thoughts about strategy in general.

At the time I retired from GE, the company employed more

than three hundred thousand people in about fifteen major busi-

nesses, from gas turbines to credit cards. It was a complex, wide-

ranging company, but I always said I wanted it to operate with the

speed, informality, and open communication of a corner store.

Corner stores often have strategy right too. With their limited

resources, they have to rely on a laserlike focus on doing one thing

very well.

In our Boston neighborhood, for instance, within a block of

each other on Charles Street, two little shops have constantly ring-

ing cash registers and a nonstop flow of satisfied customers. One is

Upper Crust Pizza. Its space is cramped, completely unadorned,

and noisy, with self-service paper plates and a limited selection of

soft drinks. Customers can eat either standing up or sitting at one

large, benchlike table. The staff isn’t exactly rude, but they’re non-

committal. It is not unusual for your order—given at the cash reg-

ister—to be greeted with a bland “Whatever.”

But the pizza is to die for; you could faint just describing the

flavor of the sauce, and the crust puts you over the edge. Invest-

ment bankers, artists, and cops start lining up at eleven in the

morning to see the “Slice of the Day” posted on the door, and

around lunch and dinner, the line can run twenty deep. A fleet of

delivery people work nonstop until closing.

At Upper Crust, strategy is all about product.

Then there’s Gary Drug, about half the size of a New York

subway car. A large, newly renovated, twenty-four–hour CVS

pharmacy is a short walk away. No matter. Gary Drug, with its sin-

— 168 —

STRATEGY

gle, narrow aisle and shelves packed to the ceiling, is always busy.

Its selection ranges from cold remedies to alarm clocks, with

tweezers and pencil sharpeners mixed in. There is a personable

pharmacist tucked in back, and a wide selection of European fash-

ion magazines in a corner up front. Everything the store sells

matches the mix of the neighborhood’s quirky residents. Salespeo-

ple greet customers by name when they walk in and happily give

advice on everything from vitamins to foot massagers. The store

offers instant home delivery and a house charge account that bills

you once a month.

At Gary Drug, strategy is all about service.

Look, what is strategy but resource allocation? When you strip

away all the noise, that’s what it comes down to. Strategy means

making clear-cut choices about how to compete. You cannot be

everything to everybody, no matter what the size of your business

or how deep its pockets.