SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: New Product Launch and Autonomy
SUMMARY: The author fought for his own operation for the new product Noryl, arguing that it needed dedicated salespeople, and maintained its autonomy even after it became successful.
KEYWORDS: new product launch, autonomy, resource allocation
---

menting with it in 1964. But as soon as the team got Noryl’s

chemical composition to work and eliminated its technical flaws,

I fought for my own operation.

The higher-ups thought I should use the pool sales force and

let Noryl be sold in the basket along with GE’s other plastics. But

I believed that no salesperson in the world would push Noryl,

which was landing $500 orders in those days, when he had Lexan

to sell in $50,000 batches to Boeing or IBM. As far as I was con-

cerned, you could sell Lexan sitting in an armchair—Noryl

needed maniacs running around! I made this case with enough

fervor and persistence—in other words, obnoxiousness—that

after a couple of years my bosses relented.

When Noryl finally got on its own, it took off—all of us felt

and acted like entrepreneurs, albeit with a big bank in our back

pocket. Over the next two years, Noryl grew by leaps and bounds.

In 1969, when I was promoted to run the entire Plastics division, I

kept Noryl as a separate business because—even with its successful

launch and rapid growth—I thought it would still benefit from

— 212 —

ORGANIC GROWTH

autonomy. In fact, Noryl (now a billion-dollar business) wasn’t

folded into the Plastics marketing and sales operation for fifteen

years.

IF YOU’RE RUNNING THE VENTURE . . .

The guidelines I’ve just listed are directed in many ways at the

executives sponsoring a new venture. But they have important

implications for the venture’s actual leaders—the people running

the new show.

Consider the first guideline, about spending on resources and

people. More often than not, you will find you are not getting

enough money from the mother ship, nor are you getting the best

people. What do you do?

Fight like hell. Get yourself in front of senior management and

make your case. And work the personnel front on your own.

Ferret out good candidates both inside and outside the company,

and make your pitch directly to them. Just go get the best people,

even if you have to throw a few elbows.

Now about hoopla. You need to realize it’s a two-edged sword.

You want it in order to get commit-

ment from those above you. But

when you get that commitment, it is

You will find you are

sure to tick off your peers. In particu-

not getting enough

lar, established businesses with fat

money from the

profits absolutely hate it when little

upstarts with no profits get a dispro- mother ship, nor are you

portionate amount of company

getting the best people.

resources and attention. They are

Fight like hell—even

certain they need more resources and

throw a few elbows.

would spend them more wisely than

your risky little venture.

— 213 —

YOUR COMPETITION

Their attitude may annoy you,

You are always going to but the last thing you need is to have

anyone in the company rooting for

want more autonomy

you to fail. Recognize that resent-

than you get. Your best

ment toward new ventures is natu-

shot is to earn it. ral. Keep your mouth shut if it

bothers you. Humility will serve

you well with your peers; someday

soon, you’ll need their support.

Finally, about autonomy. The fact of the matter is, you are

always going to want more of it than you get.

The best way to get autonomy is to earn it. If you play by the

rules, you’ll get your freedom soon enough. The spotlight of the

company is on you. Don’t blow it by overreacting if you feel

the early constraints put upon you are stifling. They are just part of

the process of your “parents” letting go.

THE PERFECT STORM

You rarely see all three guidelines at work at once, but when

you do, watch out. You get a “perfect storm” like the Fox News

Channel.

Fox News was launched in 1996 by Rupert Murdoch, an

entrepreneur’s entrepreneur, in spite of being the owner and CEO

of News Corporation, a multibillion-dollar conglomerate. Rupert

wanted to get into cable news and was willing to spend whatever

it took.

To succeed as a cable channel, you need two things. First, you

need to get subscribers from distribution providers like Comcast

and Time Warner. Second, you need to get attractive content so

that enough subscribers will actually watch you—the key to

ad dollars.

— 214 —

ORGANIC GROWTH

Rupert’s first step was to hire someone to run the new venture.

He found a match made in heaven with Roger Ailes. After run-

ning several successful political campaigns, Roger had worked at

NBC for three years, putting the cable channel CNBC on the

map. He had just launched another cable channel for GE called

America’s Talking. But he lost it when GE used the assets of

America’s Talking as its contribution to creating MSNBC, a fifty-

fifty joint venture with Microsoft, which put up the cash.

Roger left NBC in frustration, but Rupert was on his trail

immediately. He believed that Roger was the perfect new venture

manager—bursting with ideas, energy, and passion—plus the

burning desire to beat the company that had taken his “baby”

away.

With the right leader in place, Rupert set to work getting

subscribers. He paid well above market rates to get the subscriber

access the channel needed. Meanwhile, Roger was hiring the best

talent—Brit Hume from ABC, Neil Cavuto and a flock of others

from CNBC, and the highly rated commentator Bill O’Reilly.

As it was all happening, Rupert continuously trumpeted the

new venture inside the company, making it unambiguous that he

was behind Fox News through thick and thin. In the outside

world, both Rupert and Roger made it so that you couldn’t open

a paper or turn on a TV without hearing, in some form, about the

relentless advance of Fox.

Fox News is an example of everything going right at a new

venture: a high bar for people, outsize spending on resources,