SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Leadership and Motivation
SUMMARY: Leaders should learn from their team and celebrate their achievements to foster a positive and productive work culture.
KEYWORDS: learning from team, celebrating achievements, positive work culture
---

aren’t fatal.

As for learning—again, live it yourself. Just because you’re the

boss doesn’t mean you’re the source of all knowledge. Whenever I

learned about a best practice that I liked at another company, I

would come back to GE and make a

scene. Maybe I often overstated the

case, but I wanted people to know Just because you’re the

how enthusiastic I was about the

boss doesn’t mean

new idea. And I was!

you’re the source of

You can—and should—learn

from one another too. Remember all knowledge.

that executive in Chicago who

— 77 —

YOUR COMPANY

asked me how he could appraise people who were smarter than he

was? The answer I gave him was, “Learn from them. In the best-

case scenario, all your people will be smarter than you. It doesn’t

mean you can’t lead them.”

There is no edict in the world that will make people take risks

or spend their time learning. In most cases, their risk-reward equa-

tion just isn’t obvious enough.

If you want to change that, set the example yourself. You’ll love

the exciting culture you create and the results you get—and so

will your team.

RULE 8. Leaders celebrate.

What is it about celebrating that makes managers so nervous?

Maybe throwing a party doesn’t seem professional, or it makes

managers worry that they won’t look serious to the powers that

be, or that, if things get too happy at the office, people will stop

working their tails off.

Whatever the reason, there is just not enough celebrating

going on at work—anywhere. When I travel, I frequently ask au-

diences if they’ve done anything to recognize their team’s achieve-

ments—large or small—over the past year. I’m not talking about

those stilted, company-orchestrated parties that everyone hates, in

which the whole team is marched out to a local restaurant for an

evening of forced merriment when they’d rather be home. I’m

talking about sending a team to Disney World with their families,

or giving each team member two tickets to a great show in New

York, or handing each team member a new iPod or the like.

But to my question “Do you celebrate enough?” almost no

one raises a hand.

— 78 —

LEADERSHIP

It’s not as if GE was immune to

this phenomenon. I harped on the Work is too much a

importance of celebrating for twenty

part of life not to

years. But during my last trip as

recognize moments of

CEO to our training center in

Crotonville, I asked the hundred or achievement. Grab as

so managers in the class, “Do you many as you can. Make

celebrate enough in your units?”

a big deal out of them.

Even knowing what I wanted them

to say, less than half answered yes.

What a lost opportunity. Celebrating makes people feel like

winners and creates an atmosphere of recognition and positive

energy. Imagine a team winning the World Series without

champagne spraying everywhere. You just can’t! And yet compa-

nies win all the time and let it go without so much as a high five.

Work is too much a part of life not to recognize moments of

achievement. Grab as many as you can. Make a big deal out of

them. If you don’t, no one will.

■

There is no easy formula for being a leader. If only!

Leadership is challenging—all those balancing acts, all the

responsibility, all that pressure.

And yet, good leadership happens—and it comes in all kinds of

packages. There are quiet leaders and bombastic ones. There are

analytical leaders and more impulsive ones. Some are tough as

nails with their teams, others more nurturing. On the surface, you

would be hard-pressed to say what qualities these leaders share.

Underneath, you would surely see that the best care passion-

ately about their people—about their growth and success. And

you would see that they themselves are comfortable in their own

— 79 —

YOUR COMPANY

skins. They’re real, filled with candor and integrity, optimism and

humanity.

I am often asked if leaders are born or made. The answer,

of course, is both. Some characteristics, like IQ and energy, seem

to come with the package. On the other hand, you learn some

leadership skills, like self-confidence, at your mother’s knee, and at

school, in academics and sports. And you learn others at work

through iterative experience—trying something, getting it wrong

and learning from it, or getting it right and gaining the self-

confidence to do it again, only better.

For most of us, leadership happens one day when you become

a boss and the rules change.

Before, your job was about yourself.

Now, it’s about them.

— 80 —

6

Hiring

WHAT WINNERS ARE MADE OF

SOMETIMES WHEN I APPEAR before business audi-

ences, I get a question that totally stumps me, as in: I have no

clue about the right answer. A couple of years ago at a convention

of insurance executives in San Diego, for instance, a woman stood

up and said, “What is the one thing you should ask in an interview

to help you decide whom to hire?”

I shook my head. “The one thing?” I said.“I can’t come up with

one. What do you think?”

“That’s why I’m asking you!” she replied.

The audience roared, certainly because I was so floored, but

also because they could probably relate.

Hiring good people is hard.

Hiring great people is brutally hard.

And yet nothing matters more in winning than getting the

right people on the field. All the clever strategies and advanced

technologies in the world are nowhere near as effective without

great people to put them to work.

— 81 —

YOUR COMPANY

Because hiring right is so important—and so challenging—

there is a lot of territory to cover in this chapter.

■ First, we’ll take a short look at three acid tests

you need to conduct before you even think about

hiring someone.