SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Strategic Planning
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of understanding the competitive landscape, market size, and customer behavior in developing an effective business strategy.
KEYWORDS: strategic planning, competitive analysis, market definition
---

determine where the most exciting opportunities lie. Moreover,

they are the ones who will ultimately commit the resources the

strategy requires. They get the plaudits if the strategy succeeds and

hold the bag if it fails.

If you have a good team—candid, insightful, passionate about

the business, and willing to disagree—completing this exercise

should be fun and energizing. With intensity, it should take some-

where between a couple of days and a month. After that, it’s time

to act.

■

— 172 —

STRATEGY

SLIDE ONE

What the Playing Field Looks Like Now

■ Who are the competitors in this business, large and

small, new and old?

■ Who has what share, globally and in each market?

Where do we fit in?

■ What are the characteristics of this business? Is it

commodity or high value or somewhere in between?

Is it long cycle or short? Where is it on the growth

curve? What are the drivers of profitability?

■ What are the strengths and weaknesses of each

competitor? How good are their products? How much

does each one spend on R & D? How big is each sales

force? How performance-driven is each culture?

■ Who are this business’s main customers, and how

do they buy?

Over the years, I have been amazed at how much debate this

simple grounding exercise can spawn. In fact, it’s not unusual for

people who share the same office space to have widely different

views of the same competitive environment.

Many people have a terrible time admitting their business is a

true commodity. No matter how hard we tried, it was next to

impossible to get people in our motors business, for instance,

to accept this reality. And I have sat through countless meetings

where this set of questions has surfaced that discomfort and gener-

— 173 —

YOUR COMPETITION

ated enormous heat about the level of resources to commit to R &

D and marketing in an attempt to make the product more unique.

Another of the many important issues this slide surfaces is

market size. Too often, people like to call themselves the market

leader, so they end up limiting the scope of their playing field to

make that happen. In our case, the No. 1 or No. 2 mantra inadver-

tently had that exact effect. After more than a decade, we realized

that businesses were increasingly tightening their overall market

definition so that their shares were enormous.

We fixed that by saying that businesses had to define their

market in such a way that their share of any market they were in

could not be more than 10 percent. With that restriction, people

were forced into a whole new mind-set, and opportunities for

growth were suddenly everywhere.

On the road in Q & A sessions, this is how I talk about the

market definition dynamic: Since I am usually sitting in a chair,

I ask audience members to imagine that they are a chair manufac-

turer. They can define their market as the kind of chair I am

usually in—with curved metal arms, blue fabric, and wheels. Or

they can define it as all chairs. Best yet, they can define their

market as all furniture. Imagine the share differences and the

implications for strategy!

This kind of discussion is why this slide really deserves to be

wallowed in. A rich, wide-ranging conversation puts everyone on

the same page—just where they have to be to ultimately find the

big aha.

■

— 174 —

STRATEGY

SLIDE TWO

What the Competition Has Been Up To

■ What has each competitor done in the past year to

change the playing field?

■ Has anyone introduced game-changing new prod-

ucts, new technologies, or a new distribution channel?

■ Are there any new entrants, and what have they

been up to in the past year?

This set of questions brings the players on the field to life.

Competitor A has been stealing your key salespeople. Competitor

B has introduced two new products. Competitors C and D have

merged and are having all kinds of integration difficulties.

Some of this information may have surfaced during the

wallowing of the first question set, but now it’s time to dig deeper

into each competitor’s behavior.

Be granular—know what each competitor eats for breakfast.

■

— 175 —

YOUR COMPETITION

SLIDE THREE

What You’ve Been Up To

■ What have you done in the past year to change the

competitive playing field?

■ Have you bought a company, introduced a new

product, stolen a competitor’s key salesperson, or li-

censed a new technology from a start-up?

■ Have you lost any competitive advantages that you

once had—a great salesperson, a special product, a

proprietary technology?

The best thing about this slide is that it hits you between the

eyes if you’re being outflanked. Very simply, the comparison of

slides two and three tells you if you are leading the market or chas-

ing it.

Sometimes these two slides show you that your competitors

are doing a whole heck of a lot more than you are. You’d better

find out why.

Other times, the comparison of these two slides paints a vivid

picture of your business’s competitive dynamics.

Case in point is what happened in our medical business in

1976. The British company EMI had invented the CT scanner in

the early ’70s, forcing the traditional X-ray manufacturers—

Siemens, Philips, Picker, and us—into an intense equipment war.

Soon enough, all of us were coming out with million-dollar

machines six months apart, each claiming to be thirty seconds

— 176 —

STRATEGY

faster in scan time than the last entry. No one was particularly

happy with this situation. The CT competitors were in a slugfest,

and our customers—the hospitals—were frustrated that they had

to make big capital outlays for technology that could be outdated

within a year.

Seeing that dynamic, Walt Robb, the head of our medical

business, and his team, came up with a breakthrough idea. GE