SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Corporate Budgeting and Resource Allocation
SUMMARY: This passage discusses the dysfunctional dynamics of the 'Phony Smile' approach to corporate budgeting, where executives allocate resources based on secret decisions rather than transparent communication.
KEYWORDS: corporate budgeting, resource allocation, phony smile, headquarters-field tension, budget game
---

Finally, after a few more perfunctory exchanges, it’s over. The

top team smiles brightly and says, “Nice job! Thanks for coming

in! Have a safe trip home!” And pretty convinced that they did

OK, the field people smile back brightly and go away.

Then there’s the meeting after the meeting.

That’s when the members of the top team sit around talking

about how much they are really going to get from this business.

The reality is, headquarters already knows how they are allocating

the company’s investment dollars, and they know exactly what

revenue and earnings numbers they expect in return from each

business. Those decisions, they believe, belong at headquarters,

where managers can see the whole picture, pick priorities, and

divvy up the goods appropriately.

A few days later, Sara gets a call from a lower-level staff person

at headquarters telling her that her business will get about 50 per-

cent of what was asked for at the Phony Smile meeting, and the

— 195 —

YOUR COMPETITION

earnings budget number will be 20 percent higher than the one

they submitted.

What a kick in the stomach! Instantly, Sara is enraged for a slew

of reasons at once: Headquarters just didn’t listen! All that work

for nothing! No one explains anything around here! And worst of

all, now there won’t be enough money for all the things we should

be doing.

The next day, Sara goes back to her people for their meeting

after the meeting. Together, they all rail against the injustice and

mystery of the corporate edict.

And then, without meaning to, Sara makes matters worse. To

appease her team, she takes the money from corporate, now much

less than they had asked for, and she evenly parcels it out, a bit to

manufacturing, a bit to marketing, a bit to sales, and so on. Of

course, Sara would be smarter to place her bets on one or two pro-

grams, but that rarely happens in these situations. People stuck in

the Phony Smile budget game get bitter. Too often, they lose their

sense of commitment to the company and forget how excited

they were about their original proposals. They just take the money

from corporate and spread it like crumbs.

My argument here is not with a senior team allocating re-

sources. That’s their job because they have a strong, informed un-

derstanding of what each business can realistically deliver. The

trouble arises when headquarters is secretive about the process,

when they don’t explain the rationale behind their decisions.

But like the Negotiated Settlement dynamic, the Phony Smile

usually concludes with everyone shrugging off the whole ener-

vating event—it’s just business, right? And the next year, they start

it all over again.

■

— 196 —

BUDGETING

A BETTER WAY

Now, you may be wondering, “If companies manage to hit their

numbers and pay bonuses with either the Negotiated Settlement

or Phony Smile approaches to budgeting—as flawed as they are—

why mess with them? At least they deliver.”

The problem is: they often deliver only a fraction of what they

could, and they take all the fun out of setting financial goals. Yes,

this annual event can be fun—and it should be.

Imagine a system of budgeting where both the field and head-

quarters have a shared goal: to use the budgeting process to ferret

out every possible opportunity for growth, identify real obstacles

in the environment, and come up with a plan for stretching

dreams to the sky. Imagine a system of budgeting that is not inter-

nally focused and based on hitting fabricated targets, but one that

throws open the shutters and looks outside.

The budgeting system that I’m talking about is linked to the

strategic planning process described in the last chapter, in that it is

focused on two questions:

■ How can we beat last year’s performance?

■ What is our competition doing, and how can we

beat them?

If you focus on these two questions, the budgeting process be-

comes a wide-ranging, anything-goes dialogue between the field

and headquarters about opportunities and obstacles in the real

world. Through these discussions, both sides of the table jointly

come up with a growth scenario that is not negotiated or imposed

and cannot really be called a budget at all. It is an operating plan for

— 197 —

YOUR COMPETITION

the next year, filled with aspiration, primarily directional, and con-

taining numbers that are mutually understood to be targets, or put

another way, numbers that could be called “best efforts.”

Unlike a conventional budget, with its numbers cast in con-

crete, an operating plan can change as conditions change. A divi-

sion or business can have two or three operating plans over the

course of a year, adjusted as needed through realistic dialogue

about business challenges. Such flexibility frees an organization

from the shackles of a budget document that has become irrele-

vant—or even downright dead—because of changing market

circumstances.

At this point, you might be thinking,“Yeah, yeah, this approach

sounds great, but what about my bonus?”

That’s a good question. It’s the key question, in fact. And the

answer is that this operating plan process can occur under only

one condition:

Compensation for individuals and businesses is not linked

to performance against budget. It is linked primarily to

performance against the prior year and against the

competition, and takes real strategic opportunities and

obstacles into account.

For many companies, this condition would involve a radical

change. People have been trained for years and years to hit their

budget numbers no matter what, and managers have rigidly

rewarded those who did and punished those who didn’t, no

matter what.

That was the company I grew up in for twenty years, and

largely the company that I inherited when I became CEO. Over

the years, I was at the receiving end of plenty of Phony Smile

meetings, and participated in dozens if not hundreds of Negoti-

ated Settlement meetings on both sides of the table.