SOURCE: Welch_-_Winning.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Career Development
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of mentors in career growth and the value of learning from business media to gain insights into the business world.
KEYWORDS: mentors, career advice, business education, media analysis, professional development
---

ing without running it by him first.

— 291 —

YOUR CAREER

During the toughest period of my career, when I was choosing a

successor to recommend to the board, Si spent several hundred

hours over the course of five years visiting all of the candidates and

sharing his impressions with me.

Si, the longtime chairman of Illinois Tool Works, was on the

GE board when I became CEO. We played golf often and chatted

on the phone regularly. Si used both these venues to push my

thinking up unseen alleys and around blind corners. “Are you sure

that guy’s not a phony?” he would ask. “Do you think that acqui-

sition is still going to make you happy when the fanfare dies

down?” Si always knew the right question to ask.

I had another great mentor in Dennis Dammerman, who was

not only younger than me by ten years, but my subordinate as

well.

I met Dennis in 1977, when I was named head of GE’s con-

sumer products group. I arrived in the job knowing basically

nothing about insurance or financing, the main activities of GE

Capital, one of the group’s businesses. Dennis, whom I had hired as

my financial analyst, had spent several years there.

For months on end, Dennis taught me something every single

day. His patience was remarkable. Here was his boss asking him to

define the simplest concepts—I

barely understood types of debt in

those days. After all, I had come

Business is like any

from the manufacturing side of

game, with players,

GE. When we wanted money, all

a language, rules, we did was make a pitch to corp-

controversies, and a orate, and if the proposal was good

enough, they sent it. Suddenly, I was

rhythm. The media

dealing with combined ratios, delin-

covers it all.

quencies, leveraged leases, and the

like.

— 292 —

GETTING PROMOTED

Dennis basically downloaded his brain into mine. He never

called himself my mentor, but he was nothing less.

There were countless other mentors who helped me in my

career, from the executive education teacher who tried to teach

me public speaking when I was twenty-six, to the young woman

in PR who tried to teach me the Internet when I was sixty. But let

me just add to the list one more mentor that can work for every-

one: the business media.

Business is like any game. It has players, a language, a complex

history, rules, controversies, and a rhythm.

The media covers it all, and from every angle. From my earliest

days in Plastics, I learned mountains about business just by reading

every financial newspaper and magazine I could get my hands on.

From them, I picked up what deals worked and which failed, and

why. I followed people’s careers. I tried to understand what kinds

of strategic moves were criticized and which were praised. I kept

up with different industries, from chemicals to medical technol-

ogy.

And I used what I read. I learned, for instance, about PepsiCo’s

executive training program from an article in Fortune magazine.

I was so impressed by PepsiCo’s model—which used the

company’s own executives as teachers—that I built it into the

foundation of our training program in Crotonville.

I didn’t believe everything I read, of course, and the more I

knew, the more I realized that some articles were off the mark in

their analyses. Regardless, I still believe the business media is such

a good teacher that I am always amazed when I meet a young

person who doesn’t just consume it. Don’t let that happen—this

mentor is right there for the taking!

My point is that mentors are everywhere. Don’t just settle for

the mentor assigned to you as part of a formal program. Those of-

ficial mentors teach you the company ropes, but they’re just a start.

— 293 —

YOUR CAREER

The best mentors help you in unplanned, unscripted ways. Relish

all that they give you in whatever form they come.

Don’t be a downer. The fourth and final way to help your-

self get promoted is as hard or as easy as you make it—have a pos-

itive attitude and spread it around.

Yes, it’s nothing more sophisticated than that. Have a sense of

humor, be fun to hang out with. Don’t be a bore or a sourpuss.

Don’t act important, or worse, pompous. Smack yourself in the

head if you start taking yourself too seriously.

In politics, people talk about each candidate’s likability factor,

which is just another way of saying “personality appeal.” Both of

those terms refer to something intangible, but they really matter—

in politics and at work.

Obviously, being a congenial, upbeat person will not get you

ahead by itself. You need everything else we’ve just talked about—

great results, expanded job horizons, good character, visibility,

mentors, and all the rest. But it is very, very hard to get ahead with-

out being a positive person because, very simply, no one likes to

work under or near a dark cloud. Even if the “cloud” is very smart.

I know it is not easy to always be upbeat. Life doesn’t always go

your way. But every time you feel yourself spreading gloom at

work, think of Jimmy Dunne.

Jimmy was a senior executive at Sandler O’Neill & Partners,

the investment banking firm that was located on the 104th floor

of the World Trade Center’s south tower. On September 11, sixty-

eight of the staff’s 177 employees were killed, including the

company’s founder, Herman Sandler, and its lead partner, Chris

Quackenbush. Overnight, Jimmy became the CEO of a company

that was literally and emotionally decimated.

Jimmy was, of course, grief-stricken by the firm’s incalculable

human tragedy, and distraught over the deaths of two of his closest

— 294 —

GETTING PROMOTED

friends, Herman and Chris. But

today he will tell you that he knew You can win without

one thing would prevent the firm

being upbeat—if every