SOURCE: What I Learned at WalMart_Brett Blundy.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Retail Business Insights
SUMMARY: The author shares key learnings from visiting Walmart, including the importance of distribution, measurement, accountability, and customer-centric buying.
KEYWORDS: Walmart, Retail Strategy, Supply Chain, Performance Measurement, Customer Focus
---

What | learned at Wal* Mart...

Those of you, who know me well, will know the joy and privilege that I felt by being in the home

of Wal-Mart. Amongst a remarkable time the highlights were - having the opportunity to tour one

of their DC centres, visit their trail Wal-Mart store, visit their home office, sit in on their Saturday

morning auditorium meeting and discuss first-hand, with six of their most senior executives

including the CEO, Lee Scott and one of Sam Walton’s early right-hand men, Don Soderquist. It

was a Series of proud and privileged moments for me; I was like a kid in a candy store or more to

the point, a groupie who has landed in his favourite bands hotel room party!

Anyway, down to the business of sharing the highlights with you and the way Wal-Mart approach

the world of retail business and most particularly, the way in which they focus on their culture and

on the customer always!

I learned that distribution centres are ‘old hat’ and we need to focus on our supply chain and the

symbolism behind that.

I was reminded that RFID will replace the barcode, not be an addition to the way we do it now.

I learned that Wal-Mart measure everything, not to put too fine a point, I mean everything, this

was told to me by every single leader at Wal-Mart, (or the sceptical amongst you, they each

presented at different times and it came out in different ways.) The response was uniformly we

measure everything and always have.

I was reminded that measuring everything is the easiest part, actually holding people accountable

to doing something with that measurement, to ensure that the business improves is the key to

measuring, the only reason anything should be measured.

I learned that Wal-Mart hold all of their people accountable - not only at unit level but at every

level.

I learned that Wal-Mart measures the morale and spirit of all employees and then they find a way

to impact that measure positively.

I learned that the fastest growing supermarket chain in Chile (which wasn’t Wal-Mart) has every

senior manager visit a store every day! I was reminded that there would be no coincidence

between those visits and the fact that they are the most successful outfit in Chile.

I learned that all retail divisions must make it policy to do seventeen store visits a month in at

least three different states, for all retail management, and then obsessively support that policy.

I was reminded again that character, capacity and capabilities is critical not experience. I learned

that is true in a 1.8 million employee organisation like Wal-Mart as it is in a single store.

I learned that we buy for the customer we don't sell to the customer; I learned that buyers and

retailer organisations has trouble understanding this and we should repeat this again and again -

our job is to buy for the customer not to sell to the customer.

I was reminded again that all organisations have a culture and you're either going to orchestrate

your culture or it will grow on its own.

I learned that for organisations and the executives who lead them the hardest thing is to decide

which bridge to build and which to burn.

I was reminded that change brings fear.

I was reminded that change must happen; but not to ‘bet the farm’.

I was reminded that change requires vision, evaluation, courage and risk-taking.

I was reminded the one thing you never change is your core values. You can change what you

do, you can change how you do it but you cannot change your core values.

I learned that change will not succeed unless you’re open and listening, communicating,

determined to make a change succeed and that the whole team is working towards the required

change.

I was reminded that our suppliers, our crew and customers must have the ability to safely reach

up in the organisation without fear or retribution.

I learned that Wal-Mart with 1.8 million employees has a people asset review on all its crew on a

monthly basis. (That shamed and inspired me all at once!) A startling reality that we will have a

monthly board meeting, a monthly property meeting, an IT steering committee meeting, MBR’s

etc yet the most important asset that we have is our people and we do not have any concept,

mechanism, process or meeting at even the Macro level, regarding our people, yet Wal-Mart asses

all monthly; our best is to make claim to have a one on one appraisal annually - that was a

stunning realisation.

I learned that Lee Scott, the head of the most successful retail organisation in the world, believes

his leadership style is by erosion i.e. he keeps asking and he keeps asking. That he is a servant

leader.

I learned that there are only two reasons why you should change (1) For our customers (2) For

our people - anything else is probably for the wrong reason.

I was reminded that communication is always important and that we should always ‘tell’ what we

are working on,

I learned that is it time for a new word and to re symbolise “service” ~ in the past we gave

‘customer service’ and now provide ‘customer satisfaction’ - we need to re-culture and give

‘perfect service’.

I learned that one day a week all management who work in the Wal-Mart DC work “on the line”

and I mean - all management, every week, “on the line’.

I hope that the above learning’s and reminders will be helpful as we all seek, continually, ways to

improve in our roles, to do and pay attention to what is really important in this wonderful world of

retail.

It’s about

the customer, always!