SOURCE: What-Leaders-Really-Do-kotter.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Manufacturing Operations Improvement
SUMMARY: The text describes a successful effort to transform the engineering and manufacturing organization at Kodak, leading to significant quality, cost, and productivity improvements.
KEYWORDS: manufacturing operations, quality improvement, organizational transformation
---

[Document: What-Leaders-Really-Do-kotter.txt]

the copier business. An especially crucial area used in design and manufacturing—he and made the message more credible and helped

was the engineering and manufacturing orga- his managers met with the top management get more people on board. Between 1984 and

nization, headed by Bob Crandall. of that group over lunch every Thursday. 1988, quality on one of the main product lines

Trowbridge and Crandall’s vision for engi- Later, he created a format called “business increased nearly 100-fold. Defects per unit

neering and manufacturing was simple: to meetings,” where his managers meet with 12 went from 30 to 0.3. Over a three-year period,

become a world-class manufacturing opera- to 20 people on a specific topic, such as in- costs on another product line went down

tion and to create a less bureaucratic and ventory or master scheduling. The goal: to nearly 24%. Deliveries on schedule increased

more decentralized organization. Still, this get all of his 1,500 employees in at least one of from 82% in 1985 to 95% in 1987. Inventory

message was difficult to convey because it these focused business meetings each year. levels dropped by over 50% between 1984

was such a radical departure from previous Trowbridge and Crandall also enlisted writ- and 1988, even though the volume of prod-

communications, not only in the copy prod- ten communication in their cause. A four- to ucts was increasing. And productivity, mea-

ucts group but throughout most of Kodak. So eight-page “Copy Products Journal” was sent sured in units per manufacturing employee,

Crandall set up dozens of vehicles to empha- to employees once a month. A program more than doubled between 1985 and 1988.

harvard business review • december 2001 page 5

--- Page 4 ---

What Leaders Really Do•••BEST OF HBR

are not. Effective business visions regularly growth. But in an industry known more for

have an almost mundane quality, usually con- bureaucracy than vision, no company had

sisting of ideas that are already well known. ever put these simple ideas together and dedi-

The particular combination or patterning of cated itself to implementing them. SAS did,

the ideas may be new, but sometimes even and it worked.

that is not the case. What’s crucial about a vision is not its

For example, when CEO Jan Carlzon articu- originality but how well it serves the inter-

lated his vision to make Scandinavian Airlines ests of important constituencies—customers,

System (SAS) the best airline in the world for stockholders, employees—and how easily

the frequent business traveler, he was not say- it can be translated into a realistic competi-

ing anything that everyone in the airline in- tive strategy. Bad visions tend to ignore

dustry didn’t already know. Business travelers the legitimate needs and rights of important

fly more consistently than other market constituencies—favoring, say, employees over

segments and are generally willing to pay customers or stockholders. Or they are stra-

higher fares. Thus, focusing on business cus- tegically unsound. When a company that has

tomers offers an airline the possibility of high never been better than a weak competitor

margins, steady business, and considerable in an industry suddenly starts talking about

Setting a Direction: Lou Gerstner at American Express

When Lou Gerstner became president of the sively developing a broad range of new prod- tomer service, a central tenet in the organiza-

Travel Related Services (TRS) arm at American ucts and services, and investing to increase tion’s vision.

Express in 1979, the unit was facing one of its productivity and to lower costs, TRS could These incentives led quickly to new markets,

biggest challenges in AmEx’s 130-year history. provide the best service possible to custom- products, and services. TRS expanded its

Hundreds of banks offering or planning to ers who had enough discretionary income to overseas presence dramatically. By 1988,

introduce credit cards through Visa and Mas- buy many more services from TRS than they AmEx cards were issued in 29 currencies (as

terCard that would compete with the Ameri- had in the past. opposed to only 11 a decade earlier). The unit

can Express card. And more than two dozen Within a week of his appointment, Gerst- also focused aggressively on two market seg-

financial service firms were coming into the ner brought together the people running the ments that had historically received little at-

traveler’s checks business. In a mature market- card organization and questioned all the tention: college students and women. In 1981,

place, this increase in competition usually re- principles by which they conducted their TRS combined its card and travel-service ca-

duces margins and prohibits growth. business. In particular, he challenged two pabilities to offer corporate clients a unified

But that was not how Gerstner saw the widely shared beliefs—that the division system to monitor and control travel expenses.

business. Before joining American Express, should have only one product, the green And by 1988, AmEx had grown to become the

he had spent five years as a consultant to card, and that this product was limited in fifth largest direct-mail merchant in the

TRS, analyzing the money-losing travel divi- potential for growth and innovation. United States.

sion and the increasingly competitive card Gerstner also moved quickly to develop a Other new products and services included

operation. Gerstner and his team asked fun- more entrepreneurial culture, to hire and 90-day insurance on all purchases made with

damental questions about the economics, train people who would thrive in it, and to the AmEx card, a Platinum American Express

market, and competition and developed a clearly communicate to them the overall di- card, and a revolving credit card known as

deep understanding of the business. In the rection. He and other top managers rewarded Optima. In 1988, the company also switched

process, he began to craft a vision of TRS that intelligent risk taking. To make entrepreneur- to image-processing technology for billing,

looked nothing like a 130-year-old company ship easier, they discouraged unnecessary producing a more convenient monthly state-