SOURCE: What-Leaders-Really-Do-kotter.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Business Strategy and Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses how IBM's CEO, Louis Gerstner, transformed TRS, a 130-year-old company in a mature industry, into a dynamic and growing enterprise through strategic initiatives.
KEYWORDS: business transformation, market segmentation, risk-taking culture, employee training, process innovation
---

[Document: What-Leaders-Really-Do-kotter.txt]

market, and competition and developed a clearly communicate to them the overall di- card, and a revolving credit card known as

deep understanding of the business. In the rection. He and other top managers rewarded Optima. In 1988, the company also switched

process, he began to craft a vision of TRS that intelligent risk taking. To make entrepreneur- to image-processing technology for billing,

looked nothing like a 130-year-old company ship easier, they discouraged unnecessary producing a more convenient monthly state-

in a mature industry. bureaucracy. They also upgraded hiring stan- ment for customers and reducing billing

Gerstner thought TRS had the potential to dards and created the TRS Graduate Manage- costs by 25%.

become a dynamic and growing enterprise, ment Program, which offered high-potential As a result of these innovations, TRS’s net

despite the onslaught of Visa and MasterCard young people special training, an enriched income increased a phenomenal 500% be-

competition from thousands of banks. The set of experiences, and an unusual degree tween 1978 and 1987—a compounded annual

key was to focus on the global marketplace of exposure to people in top management. rate of about 18%. The business outperformed

and, specifically, on the relatively affluent To encourage risk taking among all TRS em- many so-called high-tech/high-growth compa-

customer American Express had been tradi- ployees, Gerstner also established something nies. With a 1988 return on equity of 28%, it

tionally serving with top-of-the-line products. called the Great Performers program to also outperformed most low-growth but high-

By further segmenting this market, aggres- recognize and reward truly exceptional cus- profit businesses.

harvard business review • december 2001 page 6

--- Page 5 ---

What Leaders Really Do•••BEST OF HBR

becoming number one, that is a pipe dream, same direction, people will tend to fall all

not a vision. over one another. To executives who are over-

One of the most frequent mistakes that educated in management and undereducated

overmanaged and underled corporations in leadership, the idea of getting people mov-

make is to embrace long-term planning as a ing in the same direction appears to be an or-

panacea for their lack of direction and inabil- ganizational problem. What executives need

ity to adapt to an increasingly competitive to do, however, is not organize people but

and dynamic business environment. But such align them.

an approach misinterprets the nature of di- Managers “organize” to create human sys-

rection setting and can never work. tems that can implement plans as precisely

Long-term planning is always time consum- and efficiently as possible. Typically, this

ing. Whenever something unexpected hap- requires a number of potentially complex de-

pens, plans have to be redone. In a dynamic cisions. A company must choose a structure

business environment, the unexpected often of jobs and reporting relationships, staff it

becomes the norm, and long-term planning with individuals suited to the jobs, provide

can become an extraordinarily burdensome training for those who need it, communicate

activity. That is why most successful corpora- plans to the workforce, and decide how much

tions limit the time frame of their planning authority to delegate and to whom. Eco-

activities. Indeed, some even consider “long- nomic incentives also need to be constructed

term planning” a contradiction in terms. to accomplish the plan, as well as systems to

In a company without direction, even monitor its implementation. These organiza-

short-term planning can become a black hole tional judgments are much like architectural

capable of absorbing an infinite amount of decisions. It’s a question of fit within a partic-

The idea of getting people time and energy. With no vision and strategy ular context.

to provide constraints around the planning Aligning is different. It is more of a commu-

moving in the same

process or to guide it, every eventuality deserves nications challenge than a design problem.

direction appears to be a plan. Under these circumstances, contin- Aligning invariably involves talking to many

gency planning can go on forever, draining more individuals than organizing does. The

an organizational time and attention from far more essential target population can involve not only a man-

activities, yet without ever providing the clear ager’s subordinates but also bosses, peers,

problem. But what

sense of direction that a company desper- staff in other parts of the organization, as well

executives need to do is ately needs. After awhile, managers inevita- as suppliers, government officials, and even

bly become cynical, and the planning process customers. Anyone who can help implement

not organize people but

can degenerate into a highly politicized game. the vision and strategies or who can block im-

align them. Planning works best not as a substitute for plementation is relevant.

direction setting but as a complement to it. A Trying to get people to comprehend a vi-

competent planning process serves as a useful sion of an alternative future is also a commu-

reality check on direction-setting activities. nications challenge of a completely different

Likewise, a competent direction-setting pro- magnitude from organizing them to fulfill a

cess provides a focus in which planning can short-term plan. It’s much like the difference

then be realistically carried out. It helps clar- between a football quarterback attempting to

ify what kind of planning is essential and describe to his team the next two or three

what kind is irrelevant. plays versus his trying to explain to them a to-

tally new approach to the game to be used in

Aligning People Versus Organizing the second half of the season.

and Staffing Whether delivered with many words or a

A central feature of modern organizations is few carefully chosen symbols, such messages

interdependence, where no one has complete are not necessarily accepted just because they

autonomy, where most employees are tied to are understood. An-other big challenge in

many others by their work, technology, leadership efforts is credibility—getting peo-

management systems, and hierarchy. These ple to believe the message. Many things con-

linkages present a special challenge when or- tribute to credibility: the track record of the