SOURCE: What-Leaders-Really-Do-kotter.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Organizational Alignment and Staffing
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of aligning people and organizations during change, and the role of leadership in motivating and inspiring employees.
KEYWORDS: organizational alignment, interdependence, credibility, empowerment, leadership, motivation
---

[Document: What-Leaders-Really-Do-kotter.txt]

Aligning People Versus Organizing the second half of the season.

and Staffing Whether delivered with many words or a

A central feature of modern organizations is few carefully chosen symbols, such messages

interdependence, where no one has complete are not necessarily accepted just because they

autonomy, where most employees are tied to are understood. An-other big challenge in

many others by their work, technology, leadership efforts is credibility—getting peo-

management systems, and hierarchy. These ple to believe the message. Many things con-

linkages present a special challenge when or- tribute to credibility: the track record of the

ganizations attempt to change. Unless many person delivering the message, the content of

individuals line up and move together in the the message itself, the communicator’s repu-

harvard business review • december 2001 page 7

--- Page 6 ---

What Leaders Really Do•••BEST OF HBR

tation for integrity and trustworthiness, and to fail-safe and risk free. That means they can-

the consistency between words and deeds. not be dependent on the unusual or hard to

Finally, aligning leads to empowerment in obtain. The whole purpose of systems and

a way that organizing rarely does. One of the structures is to help normal people who be-

reasons some organizations have difficulty have in normal ways to complete routine jobs

adjusting to rapid changes in markets or tech- successfully, day after day. It’s not exciting or

nology is that so many people in those com- glamorous. But that’s management.

panies feel relatively powerless. They have Leadership is different. Achieving grand vi-

learned from experience that even if they sions always requires a burst of energy. Moti-

correctly perceive important external changes vation and inspiration energize people, not by

and then initiate appropriate actions, they are pushing them in the right direction as control

vulnerable to someone higher up who does mechanisms do but by satisfying basic human

not like what they have done. Reprimands needs for achievement, a sense of belonging,

can take many different forms: “That’s against recognition, self-esteem, a feeling of control

policy,” or “We can’t afford it,” or “Shut up and over one’s life, and the ability to live up to

do as you’re told.” one’s ideals. Such feelings touch us deeply

Alignment helps overcome this problem by and elicit a powerful response.

empowering people in at least two ways. First, Good leaders motivate people in a variety

when a clear sense of direction has been com- of ways. First, they always articulate the orga-

municated throughout an organization, lower- nization’s vision in a manner that stresses the

level employees can initiate actions without values of the audience they are addressing.

the same degree of vulnerability. As long as This makes the work important to those indi-

their behavior is consistent with the vision, su- viduals. Leaders also regularly involve people

Management is about periors will have more difficulty reprimanding in deciding how to achieve the organization’s

them. Second, because everyone is aiming at vision (or the part most relevant to a particular

coping with complexity.

the same target, the probability is less that individual). This gives people a sense of con-

Leadership, by contrast, one person’s initiative will be stalled when it trol. Another important motivational technique

comes into conflict with someone else’s. is to support employee efforts to realize the

is about coping with vision by providing coaching, feedback, and

Motivating People Versus role modeling, thereby helping people grow

change.

Controlling and Problem Solving professionally and enhancing their self-esteem.

Since change is the function of leadership, Finally, good leaders recognize and reward

being able to generate highly energized be- success, which not only gives people a sense

havior is important for coping with the inevi- of accomplishment but also makes them feel

table barriers to change. Just as direction like they belong to an organization that cares

setting identifies an appropriate path for about them. When all this is done, the work

movement and just as effective alignment gets itself becomes intrinsically motivating.

people moving down that path, successful mo- The more that change characterizes the

tivation ensures that they will have the energy business environment, the more that leaders

to overcome obstacles. must motivate people to provide leadership

According to the logic of management, con- as well. When this works, it tends to reproduce

trol mechanisms compare system behavior leadership across the entire organization,

with the plan and take action when a devia- with people occupying multiple leadership

tion is detected. In a well-managed factory, roles throughout the hierarchy. This is highly

for example, this means the planning process valuable, because coping with change in any

establishes sensible quality targets, the orga- complex business demands initiatives from a

nizing process builds an organization that can multitude of people. Nothing less will work.

achieve those targets, and a control process Of course, leadership from many sources

makes sure that quality lapses are spotted im- does not necessarily converge. To the contrary,

mediately, not in 30 or 60 days, and corrected. it can easily conflict. For multiple leadership

For some of the same reasons that control roles to work together, people’s actions must

is so central to management, highly motivated be carefully coordinated by mechanisms that

or inspired behavior is almost irrelevant. Man- differ from those coordinating traditional

agerial processes must be as close as possible management roles.

harvard business review • december 2001 page 8

--- Page 7 ---

What Leaders Really Do•••BEST OF HBR

Motivating People: Richard Nicolosi at Procter and Gamble

For about 20 years after its founding in The new direction included a much scribed their vision of an organization

1956, Procter & Gamble’s paper prod- greater stress on teamwork and multi- where “each of us is a leader.” The

ucts division had experienced little ple leadership roles. Nicolosi pushed a event was videotaped, and an edited

competition for its high-quality, rea- strategy of using groups to manage the version was sent to all sales offices and