SOURCE: What-Leaders-Really-Do-kotter.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Leadership Development
SUMMARY: Effective leadership development requires creating challenging job opportunities, strong informal networks, and a culture that supports multiple leadership initiatives.
KEYWORDS: leadership development, challenging job opportunities, informal networks, culture of leadership
---

[Document: What-Leaders-Really-Do-kotter.txt]

tation. When conflicts arise among roles, managerial careers. This is usually the result

those same relationships help resolve the con- of lateral career moves or of early promotions

flicts. Perhaps most important, this process of to unusually broad job assignments. Some-

dialogue and accommodation can produce times other vehicles help, like special task-force

visions that are linked and compatible instead assignments or a lengthy general manage-

of remote and competitive. All this requires a ment course. Whatever the case, the breadth

great deal more communication than is of knowledge developed in this way seems to

needed to coordinate managerial roles, but be helpful in all aspects of leadership. So does

unlike formal structure, strong informal net- the network of relationships that is often ac-

works can handle it. quired both inside and outside the company.

Informal relations of some sort exist in all When enough people get opportunities like

corporations. But too often these networks this, the relationships that are built also help

are either very weak—some people are well create the strong informal networks needed

connected but most are not—or they are to support multiple leadership initiatives.

highly fragmented—a strong network exists Corporations that do a better-than-average

inside the marketing group and inside R&D job of developing leaders put an emphasis on

but not across the two departments. Such creating challenging opportunities for rela-

networks do not support multiple leadership tively young employees. In many businesses,

initiatives well. In fact, extensive informal decentralization is the key. By definition, it

networks are so important that if they do not pushes responsibility lower in an organization

exist, creating them has to be the focus of ac- and in the process creates more challenging

tivity early in a major leadership initiative. jobs at lower levels. Johnson & Johnson,

3M, Hewlett-Packard, General Electric, and

Creating a Culture of Leadership many other well-known companies have used

Despite the increasing importance of leadership that approach quite successfully. Some of

to business success, the on-the-job experi- those same companies also create as many

ences of most people actually seem to under- small units as possible so there are a lot of

mine the development of the attributes challenging lower-level general management

needed for leadership. Nevertheless, some jobs available.

companies have consistently demonstrated an Sometimes these businesses develop addi-

ability to develop people into outstanding tional challenging opportunities by stressing

leader-managers. Recruiting people with growth through new products or services. Over

leadership potential is only the first step. the years, 3M has had a policy that at least 25%

Equally important is managing their career of its revenue should come from products in-

patterns. Individuals who are effective in troduced within the last five years. That en-

large leadership roles often share a number of courages small new ventures, which in turn

career experiences. offer hundreds of opportunities to test and

Perhaps the most typical and most impor- stretch young people with leadership potential.

tant is significant challenge early in a career. Such practices can, almost by themselves,

Leaders almost always have had opportuni- prepare people for small- and medium-sized

ties during their twenties and thirties to actu- leadership jobs. But developing people for im-

ally try to lead, to take a risk, and to learn from portant leadership positions requires more

harvard business review • december 2001 page 10

--- Page 9 ---

What Leaders Really Do•••BEST OF HBR

work on the part of senior executives, often To encourage managers to participate in

over a long period of time. That work begins these activities, well-led businesses tend to

with efforts to spot people with great leader- recognize and reward people who successfully

ship potential early in their careers and to develop leaders. This is rarely done as part of

identify what will be needed to stretch and a formal compensation or bonus formula,

develop them. simply because it is so difficult to measure

Again, there is nothing magic about this such achievements with precision. But it does

process. The methods successful companies become a factor in decisions about promo-

use are surprisingly straightforward. They go tion, especially to the most senior levels, and

out of their way to make young employees that seems to make a big difference. When

and people at lower levels in their organiza- told that future promotions will depend to

tions visible to senior management. Senior some degree on their ability to nurture lead-

Well-led businesses tend managers then judge for themselves who has ers, even people who say that leadership can-

potential and what the development needs of not be developed somehow find ways to do it.

to recognize and reward

those people are. Executives also discuss their Such strategies help create a corporate cul-

tentative conclusions among themselves to ture where people value strong leadership

people who successfully

draw more accurate judgments. and strive to create it. Just as we need more

develop leaders. Armed with a clear sense of who has con- people to provide leadership in the complex

siderable leadership potential and what organizations that dominate our world today,

skills they need to develop, executives in we also need more people to develop the cul-

these companies then spend time planning tures that will create that leadership. Institu-

for that development. Sometimes that is tionalizing a leadership-centered culture is

done as part of a formal succession planning the ultimate act of leadership.

or high-potential development process; often

it is more informal. In either case, the key Reprint R0111F

ingredient appears to be an intelligent as- To order, see the next page

sessment of what feasible development op- or call 800-988-0886 or 617-783-7500

portunities fit each candidate’s needs. or go to www.hbr.org

harvard business review • december 2001 page 11