SOURCE: What-Leaders-Really-Do-kotter.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Organizational Change and Leadership
SUMMARY: This text describes how Richard Nicolosi led a change in Procter & Gamble's paper products division, focusing on teamwork, multiple leadership roles, and an entrepreneurial environment to motivate employees and drive innovation.
KEYWORDS: organizational change, leadership, teamwork, innovation
---

[Document: What-Leaders-Really-Do-kotter.txt]

--- Page 7 ---

What Leaders Really Do•••BEST OF HBR

Motivating People: Richard Nicolosi at Procter and Gamble

For about 20 years after its founding in The new direction included a much scribed their vision of an organization

1956, Procter & Gamble’s paper prod- greater stress on teamwork and multi- where “each of us is a leader.” The

ucts division had experienced little ple leadership roles. Nicolosi pushed a event was videotaped, and an edited

competition for its high-quality, rea- strategy of using groups to manage the version was sent to all sales offices and

sonably priced, and well-marketed division and its specific products. In plants for everyone to see.

consumer goods. By the late 1970s, October, he and his team designated All these activities helped create an

however, the market position of the di- themselves as the paper division entrepreneurial environment where

vision had changed. New competitive “board” and began meeting first large numbers of people were moti-

thrusts hurt P&G badly. For example, monthly and then weekly. In November, vated to realize the new vision. Most

industry analysts estimate that the they established “category teams” to innovations came from people dealing

company’s market share for disposable manage their major brand groups (like with new products. Ultra Pampers,

diapers fell from 75% in the mid-1970s diapers, tissues, towels) and started first introduced in February 1985, took

to 52% in 1984. pushing responsibility down to these the market share of the entire Pampers

That year, Richard Nicolosi came to teams. “Shun the incremental,” Nico- product line from 40% to 58% and

paper products as the associate general losi stressed, “and go for the leap.” profitability from break-even to posi-

manager, after three years in P&G’s In December, Nicolosi selectively tive. And within only a few months of

smaller and faster moving soft-drink involved himself in more detail in the introduction of Luvs Delux in May

business. He found a heavily bureau- certain activities. He met with the ad- 1987, market share for the overall

cratic and centralized organization vertising agency and got to know key brand grew by 150%.

that was overly preoccupied with inter- creative people. He asked the market- Other employee initiatives were ori-

nal functional goals and projects. Al- ing manager of diapers to report di- ented more toward a functional area,

most all information about customers rectly to him, eliminating a layer in the and some came from the bottom of the

came through highly quantitative mar- hierarchy. He talked more to the peo- hierarchy. In the spring of 1986, a few

ket research. The technical people ple who were working on new product of the division’s secretaries, feeling em-

were rewarded for cost savings, the development projects. powered by the new culture, developed

commercial people focused on volume In January 1985, the board an- a secretaries network. This association

and share, and the two groups were nounced a new organizational structure established subcommittees on train-

nearly at war with each other. that included not only category teams ing, on rewards and recognition, and

During the late summer of 1984, top but also new-brand business teams. By on the “secretary of the future.” Echo-

management announced that Nicolosi the spring, the board was ready to plan ing the sentiments of many of her peers,

would become the head of paper prod- an important motivational event to one paper products secretary said: “I

ucts in October, and by August he was communicate the new paper products don’t see why we, too, can’t contribute

unofficially running the division. Imme- vision to as many people as possible. to the division’s new direction.”

diately he began to stress the need for On June 4, 1985, all the Cincinnati- By the end of 1988, revenues at the

the division to become more creative and based personnel in paper plus sales paper products division were up 40%

market driven, instead of just trying to district managers and paper plant over a four-year period. Profits were

be a low-cost producer. “I had to make managers—several thousand people in up 68%. And this happened despite

it very clear,” Nicolosi later reported, all—met in the local Masonic Temple. the fact that the competition contin-

“that the rules of the game had changed.” Nicolosi and other board members de- ued to get tougher.

harvard business review • december 2001 page 9

--- Page 8 ---

What Leaders Really Do•••BEST OF HBR

Strong networks of informal relationships— both triumphs and failures. Such learning

the kind found in companies with healthy seems essential in developing a wide range of

cultures—help coordinate leadership activi- leadership skills and perspectives. These op-

ties in much the same way that formal struc- portunities also teach people something

ture coordinates managerial activities. The about both the difficulty of leadership and its

key difference is that informal networks can potential for producing change.

deal with the greater demands for coordina- Later in their careers, something equally

tion associated with nonroutine activities and important happens that has to do with broad-

change. The multitude of communication ening. People who provide effective leader-

channels and the trust among the individuals ship in important jobs always have a chance,

connected by those channels allow for an before they get into those jobs, to grow be-

ongoing process of accommodation and adap- yond the narrow base that characterizes most

tation. When conflicts arise among roles, managerial careers. This is usually the result

those same relationships help resolve the con- of lateral career moves or of early promotions

flicts. Perhaps most important, this process of to unusually broad job assignments. Some-

dialogue and accommodation can produce times other vehicles help, like special task-force

visions that are linked and compatible instead assignments or a lengthy general manage-

of remote and competitive. All this requires a ment course. Whatever the case, the breadth

great deal more communication than is of knowledge developed in this way seems to