SOURCE: What-Leaders-Really-Do-kotter.txt
SUBFOLDER: Additional\Kotter Change Management
TOPIC: Organizational Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses the difference between management and leadership, with management focused on order and consistency, and leadership focused on coping with change and aligning people.
KEYWORDS: management, leadership, organizational structure, change, vision
---

[Document: What-Leaders-Really-Do-kotter.txt]

management, complex enterprises tend to be- creating an organizational structure and set of

come chaotic in ways that threaten their very jobs for accomplishing plan requirements,

existence. Good management brings a degree staffing the jobs with qualified individuals,

of order and consistency to key dimensions communicating the plan to those people,

like the quality and profitability of products. delegating responsibility for carrying out the

Leadership, by contrast, is about coping plan, and devising systems to monitor imple-

with change. Part of the reason it has become mentation. The equivalent leadership activity,

Now retired, John P. Kotter was a so important in recent years is that the busi- however, is aligning people. This means com-

professor of organizational behavior ness world has become more competitive and municating the new direction to those who can

at Harvard Business School in Boston. more volatile. Faster technological change, create coalitions that understand the vision

He is the author of such books as The greater international competition, the dereg- and are committed to its achievement.

General Managers (Free Press, 1986), ulation of markets, overcapacity in capital- Finally, management ensures plan accom-

The Leadership Factor (Free Press, intensive industries, an unstable oil cartel, plishment by controlling and problem solving—

1988), and A Force for Change: How raiders with junk bonds, and the changing monitoring results versus the plan in some

Leadership Differs from Management demographics of the work-force are among detail, both formally and informally, by

(Free Press, 1990). the many factors that have contributed to this means of reports, meetings, and other tools;

harvard business review • december 2001 page 4

--- Page 3 ---

What Leaders Really Do•••BEST OF HBR

identifying deviations; and then planning and of data and look for patterns, relationships,

organizing to solve the problems. But for and linkages that help explain things. What’s

leadership, achieving a vision requires moti- more, the direction-setting aspect of leader-

vating and inspiring—keeping people moving ship does not produce plans; it creates vision

in the right direction, despite major obstacles and strategies. These describe a business, tech-

to change, by appealing to basic but often un- nology, or corporate culture in terms of what

tapped human needs, values, and emotions. it should become over the long term and artic-

A closer examination of each of these activ- ulate a feasible way of achieving this goal.

ities will help clarify the skills leaders need. Most discussions of vision have a tendency

to degenerate into the mystical. The implica-

Setting a Direction Versus Planning tion is that a vision is something mysterious

and Budgeting that mere mortals, even talented ones, could

Since the function of leadership is to produce never hope to have. But developing good

change, setting the direction of that change is business direction isn’t magic. It is a tough,

fundamental to leadership. Setting direction is sometimes exhausting process of gathering

never the same as planning or even long-term and analyzing information. People who artic-

planning, although people often confuse the ulate such visions aren’t magicians but broad-

two. Planning is a management process, de- based strategic thinkers who are willing to

ductive in nature and designed to produce or- take risks.

derly results, not change. Setting a direction is Nor do visions and strategies have to be

more inductive. Leaders gather a broad range brilliantly innovative; in fact, some of the best

Aligning People: Chuck Trowbridge and Bob Crandall at Eastman Kodak

Eastman Kodak entered the copy business in size the new direction and align people to it: called “Dialog Letters” gave employees the

the early 1970s, concentrating on technically weekly meetings with his own 12 direct re- opportunity to anonymously ask questions of

sophisticated machines that sold, on average, ports; monthly “copy product forums” in Crandall and his top managers and be guar-

for about $60,000 each. Over the next decade, which a different employee from each of his anteed a reply. But the most visible and pow-

this business grew to nearly $1 billion in reve- departments would meet with him as a group; erful written communications were the

nues. But costs were high, profits were hard to discussions of recent improvements and new charts. In a main hallway near the cafeteria,

find, and problems were nearly everywhere. In projects to achieve still better results; and these huge charts vividly reported the qual-

1984, Kodak had to write off $40 million in in- quarterly “State of the Department” meetings, ity, cost, and delivery results for each prod-

ventory. Most people at the company knew where his managers met with everybody in uct, measured against difficult targets. A

there were problems, but they couldn’t agree their own departments. hundred smaller versions of these charts

on how to solve them. So in his first two Once a month, Crandall and all those who were scattered throughout the manufactur-

months as general manager of the new copy reported to him would also meet with 80 to ing area, reporting quality levels and costs

products group, established in 1984, Chuck 100 people from some area of his organization for specific work groups.

Trowbridge met with nearly every key person to discuss anything they wanted. To align his Results of this intensive alignment process

inside his group, as well as with people else- biggest supplier—the Kodak Apparatus Divi- began to appear within six months, and still

where at Kodak who could be important to sion, which supplied one-third of the parts more surfaced after a year. These successes

the copier business. An especially crucial area used in design and manufacturing—he and made the message more credible and helped

was the engineering and manufacturing orga- his managers met with the top management get more people on board. Between 1984 and

nization, headed by Bob Crandall. of that group over lunch every Thursday. 1988, quality on one of the main product lines

Trowbridge and Crandall’s vision for engi- Later, he created a format called “business increased nearly 100-fold. Defects per unit