SOURCE: What I Believe In_Robert McDonald.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Corporate Social Responsibility
SUMMARY: The text discusses the belief that companies must balance profit motives with social responsibility, leveraging this congruence to drive business growth and social good.
KEYWORDS: corporate social responsibility, purpose-driven leadership, multinational companies, social capitalism, employee engagement
---

&

Do the. right Ping nol the ey bhin |

Hy Chodse the. herder right shed of The eater Wrord

WHAT | BELIEVE IN Mi © lo Plus 4

(cc Robert (Bob) A. McDonald

Passer bon Wwerosing 4

Throughout my education, military, and business careers;

that drive my behavior everyday.

BOOK REFERENCE: Leader's Compass by Dennis Haley and Ed Ruggero

The Leadership Engine by Noel Tichy

ere are a few principles in which | believe deeply

1. Living a life driven by purpose is more meaningful and rewarding than meandering through life

without direction, My life’s purpose is to improve lives. This operates on many levels. | work to improve

the lives of the 6.5 billion people in the world with P&G brands, and | work everyday to have a positive

impact in the life of just one person. This life-goal led me to be a Boy Scout when | was young, to attend

West Point and become an officer in the U.S. Army, and to join The Procter & Gamble Company. People

like to work for leaders who operate with a clear and consistent purpose. The leader's job is to understand

and enable the purpose and dreams of their employees. In this sense the task of the leader becomes a

calling, a profession; not a job.

BOOK REFERENCE: Man’s Search for Meaning by Viktor Frankt

2. Companies must do well to do good and must do good to do well. Approximately 40% of world trade

is done by multinational companies. Companies like P&G have annual sales that are larger than the Gross

Domestic Product of more than two-thirds of the countries in the world, including countries like Croatia,

Panama and Luxembourg. This gives us the responsibility and opportunity to do more. This idea is at the

heart of a concept | like called “Social Response Capitalism.” This is from a book by Bruce Piasecki called

The Surprising Solution: Creating Possibility in a Swift and Severe World. What | like about this concept is

that it doesn’t draw a distinction between a Company's profit motives and its social responsibility. This

congruence — properly leveraged ~ can be an enormous source of inspiration that leads to better

products... business growth... and social good. This is important because with social media and the

internet there is nowhere to hide. When a consumer buys a brand, they want to know the company behind

that brand and whether that company cares for the world and its people.

That's why at P&G we work to make our Purpose of “touching and improving lives" pervasive in all we do.

The more pervasive we make it, the more successful we will be. We make it pervasive in our brands, like

when Always works to teach about menstruation to keep young girls in school in Kenya, or Pampers works

with UNICEF to vaccinate mothers against neo-natal tetanus. We also make it pervasive in our

philanthropy as we use our Children’s Safe Drinking Water program to save “one life every hour.” And we

make it pervasive by offering opportunities for our employees to be involved in community service. The

point is that you can’t say you are about making life better for people only in one area of your business. It

has to be meaningfully integrated into all aspects of your business and operations.

BOOK REFERENCE: The Surprising Solution by Bruce Piasecki

3. Everyone wants to succeed, and success is contagious. | have never in all my life, in any career, in

any country, at any time, met a person who tries to fail. Everyone | have met wants to succeed. So the job

of the leader is to help people succeed. A leader's job is to catch people succeeding, even if the success

is a small one, and to use that small success to build a virtuous cycle of ever larger successes. Since

success is contagious, one success will always lead to another, and one successful person will always

influence another to be successful. Our job as leaders is to start the fire that fuels the virtuous cycle of

success.

BOOK REFERENCE: The Dream Manager by Michael Kelly

4. Putting people in the right jobs is one of the most important jobs of the leader. People like to do

work that they are good at. Think about your education. What was your favorite class? What was your

grade in that class? Chances are that the class you liked the most was also the one in which you received

the best grade. That is not an accident. Human beings always gravitate to things they do well. So our job

as leaders is to identify what our people do well, and then to put them into jobs that take advantage of that

strength. | personally do not believe in the concept of putting someone in a job to build an "opportunity for

improvement." That hurts the individual as they will be unhappy, and hurts the organization as we

underutilize the person's talent.

BOOK REFERENCE: Good to Great by Jim Collins

2

Character is the most important trait of a leader. At West Point | learned that the character of a leader

is their most important attribute. Character is defined as always putting the needs of the organization

above your own. As a Captain in the Army, | always ate after the soldiers in my command. At P&G the

leader should always take personal responsibility for results of their organization. As a West Point plebe

(freshman) | learned that | was only permitted four answers: yes, no, no excuse, and | do not understand.

These four answers are about character; there is no opportunity for equivocation or excuse; there is no

“but.”

At West Point | also learned to “choose the harder right instead of the easier wrong.” This powerful line

comes from the West Point Cadet Prayer. Have you ever noticed how it is easier to do wrong things than