SOURCE: What I Believe In_Robert McDonald.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Leadership and Character
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of integrity, courage, and moral guidelines in leadership, and the role of diversity and systems in driving innovation and success.
KEYWORDS: leadership, integrity, diversity, innovation, systems
---

“but.”

At West Point | also learned to “choose the harder right instead of the easier wrong.” This powerful line

comes from the West Point Cadet Prayer. Have you ever noticed how it is easier to do wrong things than

tight things? A leader who lives by his or her word can be counted on to do the unpopular thing when it is

tight. To always follow "the harder right," a leader must truly believe that a life directed by moral guidelines

promises deeper and richer satisfaction than a self-serving, self-absorbed life. Living up to this ideal of

character requires courage, determination, integrity, and self-discipline. You must live by your word and

actions, and know that is the most powerful demonstration of leadership.

BOOK REFERENCE: The West Point Way of Leadership by Col. Larry Donnithorne

West Point Cadet Prayer Book

Diverse groups of people are more innovative than homogenous groups. Diversity is a necessity at

P&G to reflect the consumers we serve and to drive innovation, one of our five core strengths. Innovation

is the result of connections and collaboration. James Burke, science historian and author/producer of

Connections, documented that innovation often comes from connecting two seemingly disconnected ideas.

A diverse group is better able to make these connections since they have a greater diversity of nodes to

connect. The role of the leader is to create the environment for connections and collaboration to occur.

Leaders of the most effective diverse teams follow the “Platinum Rule": treat others as they want to be

treated, The leader should know the people he or she works with well enough to know how they want to be

treated,

BOOK REFERENCE: Connections by James Burke

Ineffective systems and cultures are bigger barriers to achievement than the talents of people. In

Total Quality training we all learned how difficult it was to pick up the right proportion of red and blue beads if

the device we were using to pick them up was rigged to get a bad result. Similarly, Peter Senge teaches in

his best-selling book The Fifth Discipline “structure influences behavior," and systems often result in

unintended consequences ~ like rent controls in New York to help the poor who lived in sub-standard

housing actually further reduced investment to upgrade the housing, hurting the people the rent controls

were designed to help. The role of the leader is to improve the systems and the culture in which their

organization operates to improve the consistency and level of success of the results. Any High Performance

Organization must have four components: passionate leadership, sound strategies, robust systems, and a

high performance culture. A leader needs to work on all four pillars.

BOOK REFERENCE: The Fifth Discipline by Peter Senge

Out of the Crisis by Edwards Deming

There will be some people in the organization who will not make it on the journey. Even after taking

all of the steps above, there still will be some people in the leader's organization who will be either unwilling

or unable to go on the journey of growth with the leader and the organization, It could be the Sales

manager who thinks you took away his job by eliminating price/volume negotiation by getting rid of

Temporary Price Reduction. Or it could be the individual who it is impossible to find the right job for. A

clue to finding these individuals is to find who is not happy day-to-day. It is the leader's job to identify those

who cannot go on the journey, help them recognize the tension, and help them identify other careers which

offer greater promise.

Organizations must renew themselves. Any organization, as with any organism, which is growing must

renew itself. Growth by definition requires change. Change requires renewal. Recruiting and training are

top priorities. The standards of performance which are acceptable today will be unacceptable tomorrow if

the organization is growing and improving. As such, the leader must provide training and development

opportunities for the individuals in the organization to grow. Renewal is particularly important in a "promote

from within" Company like P&G. We need a healthy level of attrition within P&G to provide future

opportunities for growth for our more junior employees.

BOOK REFERENCE: Leading Change by John Kotter

The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People by Stephen Covey

3

10. The true test of the leader is the performance of the organization when they are absent or after they

depart. The leader's job is to build sufficient organization capability, including the leadership and individual

initiative of the members of the organization as well as the strategies/systems/culture of the organization,

so that the leader's presence or absence would not significantly affect the business results. This means

that the organization will be able to sustain itself successfully over time regardless of the quality of the

leader.

BOOK REFERENCE: Built to Last by Jim Collins

Touching lives, improving life. FG ™