SOURCE: Whys & Hows of Feedback.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2016
TOPIC: Performance Management and Feedback
SUMMARY: Feedback is effective only when embedded in a corporate culture that supports performance management, with clear goals, standards, and infrastructure to enable consistent and transparent feedback processes.
KEYWORDS: performance management, corporate culture, feedback infrastructure, feedback consistency, performance standards
---

[Document: Whys & Hows of Feedback.pdf]

16 Yun Guo, Jianqiao Liao, Shudi Liao, and Yanhong Zhang, “The Mediating Role of Intrinsic Motivation on the Relationship

Between Developmental Feedback and Employee Job Performance,” Social Behavior and Personality 42 (2014): 731-742.

17 Adam P. Tolli and Aaron M. Schmidt, “The Role of Feedback, Causal Attribution, and Self-Efficacy in Goal Revision,”

Journal of Applied Psychology 93 (2008): 692-701.

18 Julie Spencer-Rodgers et al., “The Dialectical Self-Concept: Contradiction, Change, and Holism in East Asian Cultures,”

Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin 35 (2009): 29-44.

6

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbrcworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback 416-013

unwilling to change. At the worst, burnout or emotional exhaustion can lead employees to avoid

feedback, even to the point of creating or exacerbating a vicious cycle of underperformance and

deteriorating relationships.19 Even the most motivated employee will not seek or use feedback if they

have reason to believe that their organization will ignore or, at worst, punish their efforts.

Feedback: Where It Happens

Corporate Culture

As the above indicates, feedback is only as useful and performance-enhancing as the corporate

culture surrounding it. Organizational coherence is paramount. If the corporate mission is unclear,

strategic goals cannot be set, and individual performance cannot be linked in a meaningful way with

the organization’s performance as a whole. Lack of clarity around job descriptions or team

boundaries can also foil attempts to give, or solicit, useful feedback.

Feedback also needs to be embedded in an entire context of performance management. This involves

goal setting at all levels of the organization, from the company as a whole to the individual and a

compensation and rewards system that is tied directly in to the desired competencies and behaviors.

Companies should have an infrastructure that supports feedback and performance management,

rather than leaving individual managers to figure it out on their own. There should be an agreed-

upon set of standards with consistency across offices and departments. A common feedback-related

problem is for organizational units or subcultures to develop very different performance standards

and practices around feedback. Organizations must maintain a balancing act between letting

individual units’ and managers’ feedback processes reflect actual differences in the work or

background of employees, and keeping a consistent set of practices and values organization-wide.

Having a clear feedback infrastructure not only prevents managers and feedback-seeking

employees from having to reinvent the wheel, but creates consistency, transparency, and trust in the

process, which is a key determinant of how people respond to feedback. Employees who trust the

feedback metrics and process of their companies are more likely to take action on that feedback, such

as by engaging in developmental activities.20

The timing of feedback can also affect its quality and should be considered as part of the

infrastructure. If employees are feeling a great deal of organizational cynicism, for whatever reason, it

may be wise to postpone feedback efforts until such a time as people have faith that improvement

will be rewarded (or even noticed).21 Beyond this, feedback mechanisms need to be timed to

performance events.

Reviewing a task long after the task has been completed allows memory failures and biases to

creep in, and also fails to give people the opportunity to improve in a timely fashion. Informal, in-the-

moment feedback may be best for this purpose, although formal feedback events should, as much as

possible, be tied to a meaningful schedule instead of being scheduled whenever is convenient. After-

19 Marilyn V. Whitman, Jonathon R.B. Halbesleben, and Oscar Holmes IV, “Abusive Supervision and Feedback Avoidance:

The Mediating Role of Emotional Exhaustion,” Journal of Organizational Behavior 35 (2012) 38-53.

20 Marjolein Feys, Frederick Anseel, and Bart Wille, “Improving Feedback Reports: The Role of Procedural Information and

Information Specificity,” Academy of Management Learning & Education 10 (2011): 661-681.

21 Leanne E. Atwater, David A. Waldman, and Joan F. Brett, “Understanding and Optimizing Multisource Feedback,” Human

Resource Management 41 (2002): 193-208.

7

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbrcworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

416-013 The Whys and Hows of Feedback

event reviews, such as those practiced by the military, can also be a good feedback practice,

particularly in a project-driven environment. When corporate policy dictates annual performance

reviews, bosses should engage in informal coaching and feedback on a regular basis. In his book How

to Be Good at Performance Appraisals, Dick Grote notes that “Frequent coaching during the year is vital.

It lowers the fear factor people may experience during the annual appraisal discussion if that’s the

only time the boss talks about performance.”22

Organizational attitudes to feedback, as exemplified in leadership and practices, are also

important. Feedback should be seen as meaningful, acceptable, and useful. Cultures in which this is

the case tend to have employees who are motivated, committed, and satisfied with their work.23 One

way to create such attitudes is for leaders to model feedback-seeking behavior. “One must ask for

feedback in order to demonstrate the expectations regarding the frequency of feedback, what

constitutes suitable reactions, and when to respond or take action.”24

These kinds of feedback-friendly practices and attitudes are usually seen as part of an

organization-wide orientation to learning. As identified by David A. Garvin, Amy C. Edmondson,

and Francesca Gino, learning organizations have “(1) a supportive learning environment, (2) concrete

learning processes and practices, and (3) leadership behavior that reinforces learning.”25 Aspects of

the learning culture include psychological safety, appreciation of differences, openness to new ideas,

and time for reflection. Psychological safety, a critical component of feedback situations, refers to the

sense that it is acceptable to take risks, admit mistakes, or try new things that may or may not work.

This kind of talk sounds most culturally compatible with a “fail big!” innovative IT startup, but much