SOURCE: Whys & Hows of Feedback.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2016
TOPIC: Performance Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses strategies for delivering constructive feedback to underperforming employees, including setting clear expectations, focusing on specific actions, and engaging in problem-solving conversations.
KEYWORDS: performance feedback, employee development, underperformance, performance management, feedback delivery
---

[Document: Whys & Hows of Feedback.pdf]

out for errors or lapses that might signify a lack of alignment or capacity.

Failures, lovable losers, and prima donnas, however, need a sharp wakeup call. The balance to be

struck is to make a clear case for “the need for an immediate and total turnaround if the person is to

remain employed,”38 while not evoking excessive defensiveness. Avoid looking for a bright side

where none exists, or mentioning the employee’s strengths, as some positive comments can be

latched on to by an underperformer. At the same time, focus on specific actions rather than personal

qualities. Pearce advises managers confronting underperforming employees to “Describe the effects

of the action. For example, ‘When you do [describe the action] if leads to [describe the negative

consequences for the organization.’ Practice this; it works.”39 The main focus of the feedback session

is to achieve agreement between the manager and employee on the existence of the action and

consequence, and to begin problem solving: “Performance feedback works best when it is a

conversation about causes—a conversation about how to fix the problems.”40

The remainder of this section will provide a basic outline for a formal or semi-formal feedback

session, outlining what to do and things to keep in mind before, during, and after the session.

37 Adams, Susan M. “Positive Affect and Feedback-Giving Behavior,” Journal of Managerial Psychology 20, no. 1 (2005): 24-42.

38 Grote, p. 159.

39 Pearce, p. 93.

40 Pearce, p. 92.

11

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbrcworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

416-013 The Whys and Hows of Feedback

Before the session

Get logistics, paperwork, and data in order

Giver Recipient

Allow 45-60 minutes for a feedback session. Fill out any required paperwork. Create a list of

Avoid having anything inflexible scheduled your main accomplishments during the most

immediately after a feedback session, in case recent period (whether this is asked for or not).

things run long. List two or three areas for improvement, as well.

Do not attempt to do a performance appraisal In addition to discrete accomplishments, spend

over the phone or through email. It is important some time reflecting on your overall

to be able to read the employee’s body language. performance, job satisfaction, and upcoming

plans and goals. Are there areas where you feel

Reserve a private space for the session. Unless unsure of your own performance? Where could

there are compelling reasons to do so, avoid you benefit from additional resources or

giving feedback in public------it makes criticism development?

harder to take, and does not make praise any

more valued. If possible, allow 30 minutes or so solo time for

reflection after the session.

Pull together relevant paperwork or data------peer

assessments, client ratings, whatever metrics are

used. The recipient should know what materials

will be included in the review process.

Do not attempt to be comprehensive. Grote

recommends writing down three successes and

two areas for improvement, or else developing a

single message for an employee to take away.41

Check yourself for biases

One of the most common biases in the psychological literature is the actor-observer effect, or the

tendency to perceive one’s own behavior as caused by external factors, and the behavior of others

as caused by their dispositions. (In other words, I am using my cell phone inappropriately because

I am having an emergency; you are using yours inappropriately because you are rude.) Feedback

givers and recipients should both be aware of this bias and think about what external factors could

have contributed to performance. Review materials with a particular eye for specific, behavioral

examples of effective or ineffective behaviors.42

Giver Recipient

Make an active effort to disregard performance Try to assess fairly how circumstances

reports from previous years. Once an employee contributed to your performance. It is tempting

41 Grote, 2011.

42 Pearce, 2012.

12

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbrcworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback 416-013

(or anyone) has been mentally categorized, it can to blame circumstances for poor performance,

be difficult to perceive behavioral changes. Ask but it can also be a temptation to attribute good

yourself: What would I think of this employee if performance to luck or a general uptick in

I interviewed him or her today?43 business, if you have a difficult time taking

credit for accomplishments because of

Before a performance appraisal, think about the job personality or cultural factors (such as gender

itself, rather than the person in it. What are the norms).

most important job requirements? What are the

main goals of the position? Note that these

requirements and goals may change over time.44

Prepare emotionally

Giver Recipient

For those conversations in which non-performance Spend some time considering the learning

is at issue, some suggest rehearsing what you will orientation mindset. Recognize that this is an

say, as a confrontation over a difficult topic can evaluation of your performance, not your

often lead to an emotional response. personal worth.

If the employee begins to talk about non-work If desired, do some breathing or meditation

difficulties—money, children, financial exercises before the session. Interpersonal

problems—redirect the conversation tension can cause the primitive brain to react

immediately. Sympathy can be expressed and, if with a “flight or fight” response; calming that

necessary, the employee can be recommended to brain in advance may be a wise move for the

an assistance program, but do not let the emotionally reactive, or people anticipating

appraisal turn into a counseling session. criticism.46

If people get emotional, wait it out. If necessary,

reschedule, but do not avoid the feedback

session. “Do not interrupt very upset people

with rational observations or analysis; this will

just further enrage them... Do not let emotional

outbursts lead to an avoidance of

accountability.”45

Source: Compiled by casewriters.