SOURCE: Whys & Hows of Feedback.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2016
TOPIC: Performance Feedback Management
SUMMARY: The text discusses best practices for providing and receiving performance feedback, emphasizing active listening, managing emotional reactions, and connecting feedback to organizational goals.
KEYWORDS: performance feedback, emotional management, active listening, goal alignment, accountability
---

[Document: Whys & Hows of Feedback.pdf]

necessary, the employee can be recommended to brain in advance may be a wise move for the

an assistance program, but do not let the emotionally reactive, or people anticipating

appraisal turn into a counseling session. criticism.46

If people get emotional, wait it out. If necessary,

reschedule, but do not avoid the feedback

session. “Do not interrupt very upset people

with rational observations or analysis; this will

just further enrage them... Do not let emotional

outbursts lead to an avoidance of

accountability.”45

Source: Compiled by casewriters.

43 R. Buda, R.R. Reilly, J.W. Smither, “The Influence of Indirect Knowledge of Prior Performance on Evaluations of Present

Performance: The Generalizability of Assimilation Effects,” Journal of Psychology and the Behavioral Sciences 6 (1991): 89-99.

44 Grote, pp. 97-98.

45 Pearce, p. 94.

46 Herbert Benson and William Proctor, Relaxation Revolution: Enhancing Your Personal Health Through the Science and Genetics of

Mind-Body Healing (New York: Scribner, 2010,): Rimma Teper and Michael Inzlicht, “Mindful Acceptance Dampens

Neuroaffective Reactions to External and Rewarding Performance Feedback,” Emotion 14 (2014): 105-114.

13

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbrcworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

416-013 The Whys and Hows of Feedback

During the session

Giver Recipient

Don’t give employees evaluation forms that were Ask for clarification and/or elaboration on

completed before the session began, or it will seem anything specific in the feedback as necessary.

that the discussion was mere theater (although The feedback recipient should ask for examples

providing objective data is desirable). of how his or her performance could have been

more effective. Don’t be afraid to probe or let the

Give the feedback with objective performance data,

feedback giver know that you can handle

tying performance back to established goals,

straight talk. If you are unclear, ask again.

performance measures, or whatever other metrics

exist. Remember, a feedback session is not about Listen actively; try to listen rather than explain.

merely critiquing one employee’s performance, but

Catch and curtail any defensiveness. Listen to

about linking that performance to team,

understand: avoid making excuses or denying

departmental, and organizational goals. All of

the points made. Remember, it is your

these dots should be connected so that the

manager’s opinion of your job performance that

employee sees the relevance of what is being said.

matters. If you don’t understand the success

criteria, ask.

Listen actively and watch for the recipient’s

reaction (body language and facial expressions

During the session, acknowledge feedback with

convey reactions as well). Summarize what you

ongoing verbal and nonverbal reinforcement.

hear in any reactions.

If you have ideas for resources that would help

Discuss next steps, both positive and negative

your performance, mention them.

consequences of behaviors, issues surrounding

non-improvement, and opportunities for future

Summarize what you heard and what you

growth. Ask what the employee needs in order to

understand the feedback to mean.

improve------practice? Coaching? A stretch

assignment? The chance to delegate less-critical Thank the feedback giver for their time and

responsibilities to put more effort into the high- effort.

value activities? Summarize what you hear.

Together, discuss the feedback and agree on next

steps and conclusions of the exchange. If you

cannot agree, agree to table the discussion and

either escalate or revisit it at a later date.

Close the session and thank the recipient for their

time and work in preparing for it.

Source: Compiled by casewriters.

14

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbrcworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback 416-013

After the session

Giver Receiver

Follow up on any action items------setting up a Do not act on the feedback immediately. Instead,

subsequent session, enrolling the employee in take some time to reflect on it, ideally in writing.

development opportunities, whatever was decided Jot down the major points of the session

upon. It is important to model the behavior of immediately after meeting (or during the

taking the feedback back into the work meeting if possible), revisiting the notes after a

environment instead of closing the door on the brief reflection period of a few days to process

session. the information further.47

When some time has passed, ask for feedback

You may find that there are things you are

about the session itself. What was helpful? What

unclear about. A major motive for seeking

could you improve on as a feedback-giver?

feedback can be lack of clarity about earlier

feedback, so you are not alone! Schedule a

Be patient! Sometimes, feedback may make things

follow-up session if necessary.

worse briefly, as people become more self-

conscious or have to think more about task that

Decide on what next steps you will take in

had become somewhat automatic.

response to the feedback, and communicate

these to the feedback giver and whoever else is

appropriate.

Source: Compiled by casewriters.

Conclusion

Feedback is essential to psychological wellbeing and invaluable to job performance and

professional development. Feedback is also inevitable—the social human brain can interpret nearly

any interaction as referring to one’s own behavior—and hence, should be intentional. Giving and

receiving feedback, though it may feel uncomfortable, is a lifetime skill to develop and hone.

47 Frederick Anseel, Filip Lievens, and Eveline Schollaert, “Reflection as a Strategy to Enhance Task Performance After

Feedback,” Organizational Behavior and Human Processes 1 (2009): 23-35.

15

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbrcworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.