SOURCE: Whys & Hows of Feedback.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2016
TOPIC: Organizational Learning and Feedback Culture
SUMMARY: The text discusses the characteristics of a learning organization and how national culture affects feedback practices.
KEYWORDS: organizational learning, feedback culture, psychological safety
---

[Document: Whys & Hows of Feedback.pdf]

and Francesca Gino, learning organizations have “(1) a supportive learning environment, (2) concrete

learning processes and practices, and (3) leadership behavior that reinforces learning.”25 Aspects of

the learning culture include psychological safety, appreciation of differences, openness to new ideas,

and time for reflection. Psychological safety, a critical component of feedback situations, refers to the

sense that it is acceptable to take risks, admit mistakes, or try new things that may or may not work.

This kind of talk sounds most culturally compatible with a “fail big!” innovative IT startup, but much

of the work by Edmondson and her colleagues has been in far more conservative and very high-

stakes environments—such as children’s hospitals. In one such case, developing a new “blame free”

way to analyze mistakes and accidents led to “measurable reductions in preventable deaths and

illnesses at the institution.”26

In practice, an organization with a learning orientation and a good performance-management

system, including frequent feedback, sets itself up for a virtuous cycle of communication, alignment,

and improvement.

National Culture

There is a vast body of literature on cultural differences, particularly around communication,

cooperation, and competition. Cultures vary across a number of relevant dimensions—assertiveness,

power distance, individualism/collectivism, that will affect feedback.27 In particular, a divide has

been noted between Asian and Western cultures. Asians may be less prone to the self-serving

22 Dick Grote, How to Be Good at Performance Appraisals (Boston: Harvard Business Review Press, 2011), p. 72.

23 Amanda Baker, Dominique Perrault, Alain Reid, and Celine M. Blanchard, “Feedback and Organizations: Feedback Is Good,

Feedback-Friendly Culture Is Better.” Canadian Psychology 54 (2013): 260-268.

24 P. 264 of Baker et al.

25 P. 110 of David A. Garvin, Amy C. Edmondson, and Francesca Gino, “Is Yours a Learning Organization?” Harvard Business

Review (2008): 109-116.

26 P. 111 of David A. Garvin, Amy C. Edmondson, and Francesca Gino, “Is Yours a Learning Organization?” Harvard Business

Review (2008): 109-116.

27 Regina Eckert, Bjørn Z. Ekelund, William A. Gentry, and Jeremy F. Dawson, “I Don’t See Me Like You See Me, But Is That a

Problem?” Cultural Influences on Rating Discrepancy in 360-degree Feedback Instruments,” European Journal Of Work &

Organizational Psychology 19, no. 3 (2010): 259-278; Hazel R. Markus and Shinobu Kitayama, “Culture and the Self: Implications

for Cognition, Emotion, and Motivation,” Psychological Review 98, no. 2 (1991): 224-253.

8

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbrcworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback 416-013

attributional bias that can lead employees to overestimate their performance.28 However, seeking or

giving feedback may be avoided in Asian cultures as it could cause the loss of face or upset group

dynamics.29 Some Latin cultures as well may find formal feedback systems, particularly competitive

ones, to be destructive of organizational culture.30 Because the effect of different feedback techniques

may vary across cultures—for example, 360-degree feedback may cause stress in cultures with a high

power distance between subordinates and superiors—it is important to recognize cultural differences

when developing performance appraisal and feedback processes in multinational companies.31

Cultural differences, however, should not be magnified out of proportion.32 Culture may affect

particular behavioral norms around giving feedback, as well as the value of aspects of the equation (the

social cost of seeking feedback, for example, might be higher in a shame-based cultures), but it doesn’t

change the variables. The building blocks of good feedback practices are similar everywhere:

• Motivation (employees high in internal motivation, rather than being motivated exclusively

by rewards, use feedback most effectively, and good feedback practices can increase

motivation),

• Trust (for feedback to be effective, the recipient must trust the giver’s goodwill and

competence, and the information and process used to develop and deliver the feedback),

• Organizational alignment and clarity (performance can only be judged against metrics and

goals; an organization that cannot define success for itself cannot define good or bad

performance in its employees), and

• A supportive infrastructure (feedback efforts need to be culturally normalized and rewarded,

and the skills of giving and receiving feedback should be coached).

Also, cultures are not immutable; some research suggests, for example, that modernization efforts

in China may be leading to more Western-style preferences in feedback.33

28 Amy H. Mezulis, Lyn Y. Abramson, Janet S. Hyde, and Benjamin L. Hankin, “Is There a Universal Positivity Bias in

Attributions? A Meta-Analytic Review of Individual, Developmental, and Cultural Differences in the Self-Serving

Attributional Bias,” Psychological Bulletin 130, no. 5 (2014): 711-747.

29 Harriet A. MacDonald et al., “Cultural Differences in the Motivation to Seek Performance Feedback: A Comparative Policy-

Capturing Study,” Human Performance 26 (2013): 211-235.

30 A. Davila and M. Elvira, “Psychological Contracts and Performance Management in Mexico,” International Journal of

Manpower 28 (2007): 384-402; T.T. Selvarajan, and Peggy A. Cloninger, “Can Performance Appraisals Motivate Employees to

Improve Performance? A Mexican Study,” The International Journal of Human Resource Management 23, no. 15 (2012): 3063-3084.

31 Frank Shipper, Richard C. Hoffman, and Denise M. Rotondo, “Does the 360 Feedback Process Create Actionable Knowledge

Equally Across Cultures?” Academy of Management Learning & Education 6 (2007): 33-50; Lanny Entrekin and Yee Wah Chung,

“Attitudes Towards Different Sources of Executive Appraisal: A Comparison of Hong Kong Chinese and American Managers

in Hong Kong,” International Journal Of Human Resource Management 12 (2001): 965-987; Chin-Ju Tsai and Wen-Lai Wang,

“Exploring the Factors Associated with Employees’ Perceived Appraisal Accuracy: A Study of Chinese State-Owned

Enterprises,” International Journal of Human Resource Management 24 (2013): 2197-2220; Clive Fletcher and Elissa L. Perry,

“Performance Appraisal and Feedback: A Consideration of National Culture and a Review of Contemporary Research and

Future Trends,” in Handbook of Industrial, Work and Organizational Psychology, Volume 1: Personnel Psychology, eds. N. Anderson,

D.S. Onez, H.K. Sinangil, C. Viswesvaran. (Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 2002), PP. 127-144.

32 See, for example, Lowell Gaertner, Constantine Sedikides, Huajian Cai, “Wanting to Be Great and Better but not Average: On