SOURCE: Whys & Hows of Feedback.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2016
TOPIC: Performance Appraisal and Feedback
SUMMARY: This text discusses the factors affecting employees' perceived appraisal accuracy and the cultural differences in feedback practices across countries and organizations.
KEYWORDS: performance appraisal, feedback practices, cultural differences
---

[Document: Whys & Hows of Feedback.pdf]

“Exploring the Factors Associated with Employees’ Perceived Appraisal Accuracy: A Study of Chinese State-Owned

Enterprises,” International Journal of Human Resource Management 24 (2013): 2197-2220; Clive Fletcher and Elissa L. Perry,

“Performance Appraisal and Feedback: A Consideration of National Culture and a Review of Contemporary Research and

Future Trends,” in Handbook of Industrial, Work and Organizational Psychology, Volume 1: Personnel Psychology, eds. N. Anderson,

D.S. Onez, H.K. Sinangil, C. Viswesvaran. (Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 2002), PP. 127-144.

32 See, for example, Lowell Gaertner, Constantine Sedikides, Huajian Cai, “Wanting to Be Great and Better but not Average: On

the Pancultural Desire for Self-Enhancing and Self-Improving Feedback,” Journal Of Cross-Cultural Psychology 43 (2012): 521-526.

33 James R. Bailey, Chao C. Chen and Sheng-Gong Dou, “Conceptions of Self and Performance-Related Feedback in the U.S.,

Japan and China,” Journal of International Business Studies 28, no. 3 (1997): 605-625.

9

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbrcworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

416-013 The Whys and Hows of Feedback

Leaders who are working in a foreign country—or even moving from one distinct region of their

home country to another—are advised to get a formal or informal “communication coach” to help

ensure that difficult conversations, such as those around performance, are handled effectively. One

cultural difference to be alert to is the preference for straightforward versus indirect communication.

In some cultures, feedback is sought given and directly, whereas in others feedback is conveyed and

sought indirectly.34 In many Western cultures, particularly the U.S., self-promotion is considered

appropriate and not off-putting. Even within a particular country, industry and organizational

cultures can differ on this dimension, so it is good practice for leaders to pay attention to the feedback

norms in their particular environment before attempting to give or solicit feedback.

Erin Meyer offered the following practical advice in the Harvard Business Review for gauging a

culture’s feedback practices:

One way to begin gauging how a culture handles negative feedback is by listening to

the types of words people use. More direct cultures tend to use what linguists call

upgraders, words preceding or following negative feedback that make it feel stronger,

such as absolutely, totally, or strongly: “This is absolutely inappropriate,” or “This is

totally unprofessional.” By contrast, more indirect cultures use more downgraders,

words that soften the criticism, such as kind of, sort of, a little, a bit, maybe, and slightly.

Another type of downgrader is a deliberate understatement, such as “We are not quite

there yet” when you really mean “This is nowhere close to complete.”35

Paying attention to linguistic cues can help managers calibrate their language to ensure that their

feedback is heard as intended, and that they themselves hear the intended messages in the feedback

they receive.

Feedback: How to Run a Session

A common practice in feedback sessions, especially formal performance reviews, is the “sandwich

technique” of beginning and ending the session with praise, and confining the negative comments to

the middle. For example, Jone L. Pearce recommends that managers “Try to begin and end with areas

of success” in a formal performance evaluation.36 The exact recipe of the “sandwich,” however, varies

depending on the quality of the employee. There is no point to nitpicking the mistakes of an excellent

performer, nor of trying to find some upside to a record of underperformance.

Feedback sessions with poor performers need to be handled differently from those with excellent-

to-acceptable performers. Dick Grote created a matrix of performance based on performance results

and behaviors (“behaviors” meaning general collegiality, ethics, cultural fit and other intangibles that

may not affect the quality of the work but have great impact on the quality of the workplace) to

categorize the five types of employees:

34 Mary F. Sully De Luque, and Steven M. Sommer, “The Impact of Culture on Feedback-Seeking Behaviors: An Integrated

Model and Propositions,” Academy Of Management Review 25, no. 4 (2000): 829-849.

35 Erin Meyer, “How to Say ‘This Is Crap’ in Different Cultures,” Harvard Business Review blog, https://hbr.org/2014/02/how-

to-say-this-is-crap-in-different-cultures/, February 25, 2014, accessed May 22, 2015.

36 Pearce, p. 103.

10

This document is authorized for use only by Ryan Benner (ryan@bbrcworld.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of copyright. Please contact customerservice@harvardbusiness.org or

800-988-0886 for additional copies.

The Whys and Hows of Feedback 416-013

Poor Results Average Great Results

Great Behavior Lovable Loser Star

Average Journeyman

Poor Behavior Failure Prima Donnas

Source: Dick Grote, How to Be Good at Performance Appraisals (Boston: Harvard Business Review Press, 2011).

Feedback for stars and journeymen—the solid B-level performers who keep an organization

running—should focus primarily on motivating and energizing the employee. High-performing

employees are usually self-motivated and willing to bring up their own shortcomings in a performance

review, assuming they know what those shortcomings are. This is an important caveat. Managers may tend

to avoid giving negative feedback to generally good employees whom they like, overlooking areas for

improvement or possible misalignment with the organization. Such managers assume that because of

their collegial relationship, the liked employees will seek out feedback, and more importantly know

what feedback they need. This can be a problem when organizational goals change or an employee is in

difficult circumstances.37 A manager should not feel the need to come up with picayune shortcomings

or mistakes in order to “balance” a good worker’s performance review, but should also keep a keen eye

out for errors or lapses that might signify a lack of alignment or capacity.

Failures, lovable losers, and prima donnas, however, need a sharp wakeup call. The balance to be

struck is to make a clear case for “the need for an immediate and total turnaround if the person is to

remain employed,”38 while not evoking excessive defensiveness. Avoid looking for a bright side

where none exists, or mentioning the employee’s strengths, as some positive comments can be

latched on to by an underperformer. At the same time, focus on specific actions rather than personal