SOURCE: Wildly Important Goal_2014.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Key Performance Indicator Management
SUMMARY: This text discusses the importance of choosing the right lead measures, tracking performance, and making weekly commitments to drive a Wildly Important Goal (WIG).
KEYWORDS: lead measures, KPIs, accountability, WIG sessions
---

Rank in order of impact on the WIG

Test your ideas against the checklist below the Lead Measure

Builder Tool

Lead Measure Builder Tool

Have we chosen our lead measures correctly?

ie)

Are the lead measures predictive — that is, the most impactful things you can do to

drive achievement of the Team WIG?

Are the lead measures influenceable — that is, do you have clearly have the power to

move the lead measure?

Can you track performance on the lead measure from day one?

Are the lead measures worth pursuing? Or will the data cost more to gather than it’s

worth?

Is every lead measure quantifiable?

SAMPLE WIG SESSION

WIG sessions might vary in content, but the agenda is always the same. Here’s the three-

part agenda for a WIG session along with the kind of language to use in the session:

Commitments: What are the 1-2 most important things | can do this week to make the

biggest impact on the scoreboard and move the Lead Measures?”

1. Account: Report on commitments.

“T committed to make a personal call to three customers who gave us lower scores. I did.

“T committed to book at least three prospects for a site visit and ended up getting four!”

2. Review the scoreboard: Learn from successes and failures.

“Our lag measure is green, but we've got a challenge with one of our lead measures that just

fell to yellow. Here’s what happened...”

“We're trending upward on our lead measures, but our lag measure isn’t moving yet. We've

agreed as a team to double our efforts this week to get the score moving.”

“Although we're tracking toward achieving our WIG, we implemented a great suggestion

from a customer this week that improved our lead measure score even further!”

3. Plan: Clear the path and make new commitments.

“I can clear your path on that problem. I know someone who...”

“My 2 new commitments this week are...”

aerate OF HOM AVE Ey.

Leait: fram sue

“Moen

OF and make wy

WIG Session Agenda Tool

To be filled out by each Team Member during the WIG session in order to keep track of others commitments and results

WIG SESSION AGENDA

“From x... to y... by when”

| ‘s

LE

3

:

WIG | FY14

Did we get the WIG Session right?

Keep the sessions brief, brisk and energetic. 20 to 30 mins max!

Review the lead measure scoreboard

Review the lag measure scoreboard

Are we winning or losing?

Hold each other unconditionally accountable for each other’s commitments

Each Team Member to make 2 specific commitments for the coming week.

oO 000 0 0

Clear the path for each other. Find ways to help the Team who encounter obstacles

to keeping their commitments.

Park important issue (not directly impacting on the WIG) and discuss offline.

o Keep the Whirlwind out of the WIG!

SUMMARY

® “What are the 2 most important things | can do this week to make the biggest

impact on the scoreboard and move the Lead Measures?”

@ Allocate 20% of your time

®@ Nothing can get in the way of achieving these commitments

® Report back to the Team in our weekly WIG Session

® Enjoy the success!

WIG) FYi4

Appendix

(i)

Discipline 2: Lead Measures

Discipline 2 is the discipline of leverage.

1.Lead measures are the measures of the activities most connected to

achieving the goal.

2. Lag Measure will tell us if we have

achieved our WIG.

A. Alag measure is the

measurement of a result you are

trying to achieve.

B. We call them lag measures

because by the time you get the

data the result has already

happened; they are always Man lifting a stone

lagging. with a lever

Lead Measure will tell us if we are capable of achieving our WIG.

Lead measures are different; they foretell the results. They have two primary

characteristics.

1. Alead measure is predictive, meaning that if the lead measure changes, you can

predict that the lag measure also will change.

2. Second, a lead measure is influenceable; it can be directly influenced by the

team.

The key principle behind lead measures is simply this: leverage.

A lever is something we can move. When the lever moves, the rock moves: it’s

predictive.

How do we choose the right levers?

Select initiatives that we believe will have the greatest impact on achieving the WIG: the

80/20 activities.

When a team defines its lead measures they are making a strategic bet. In a sense, they

are saying, “We’re betting that by driving these lead measures we are going to achieve

our wildly important goal.”