SOURCE: Wildly Important Goal_2014.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Goal-Setting and Execution
SUMMARY: This document outlines a structured process for setting and executing on 'Wildly Important Goals' (WIGs) using the '4 Disciplines of Execution'.
KEYWORDS: goal-setting, execution, key performance indicators, accountability
---

Wildly

“From X.... to y.... by when” Important

Goal

Roll-out agenda

The 4 Disciplines of Execution

Week 1: Introduction to the WIG ~ Video and launch of WIG/ 4DX document. Each Team Member

to present their WIG in the form of “from x... to y... by when....2” in week 2

Week 2: Lead Measures — Launch of Lead Measures; examples and discussion points. Team

Members to spend this week developing with their Team 2-3 Lead Measures; presented in week 3.

Week 3: Compelling scoreboards - Launch of Compelling Scoreboards; video and examples. Team

Members to spend this week developing with their Compelling Scoreboard; presented in week 4.

Week 4: Sample WIG Session - Launch of how the weekly WIG Sessions will run. Team to have 1-2

commitments (1-2 most important things | can do this week to make the biggest impact on

the scoreboard and move the Lead Measures) ready for week 5.

Week 5: WIG session begins - Commitments are made for this week.

Week 6: WIG session is in full swing — As per sample WIG Session

http://www. youtube.com/watch?v=EZR2IxmOQQE&feature=player embedded

WIG | Fvi4

The 4 Disciplines of Execution

We are all so often caught up in the Whirlwind of our day jobs that we don’t get a chance to

focus on the Wildly Important Goals (WIG) which will make a big difference to ourselves

and the business in the long run. As a result it is fundamental to schedule in time to focus on

our Wildly Important Goals every week. To know what to do, we simply respond to the

question: What are the 2 things | could do this week which would have the biggest impact in

my business then use our allocated time to focus on those things.

Below are the summary points of the 4 Disciplines of Execution:

Discipline 1: Focus on the Wildly Important

You can have no more than 1-3 WIGs for the same Team at the same time because statistics

say if you aim for:

e 1-3 you'll achieve 1-3

e 4-10 you'll achieve 1

e 11-20 you'll achieve 0

Discipline 2: Act on the Lead measures (i)

Lead measures differ from Lag measures insofar as Lead measures measure what you do to

get the result of the Lag measure. The Lead is the lever, the Lag is the rock: focus your

attention on the lever. Also, Lead measures are characterised by being predictive and

influenceable whereas Lag measures measure the goal and are generally easier to measure.

Discipline 3: Create a compelling scoreboard

The scoreboard helps you and your Team see how well you’re doing and is a measurement

system for the first two disciplines.

The scoreboard itself has a few criteria as it must be compelling. It should be:

e Simple

e Visible to the players

e Tells us immediately if we’re winning or losing

e Must be engaging

For morale purposes, remember that if we feel happy and that we’re winning, we'll

contribute more. It is important to note that you should be measuring the right things for

this to be effective.

WIG) FYL4

Discipline 4: Create a Cadence of Accountability (Cadence = consistent rhythm)

This discipline is fundamental to this process working. A weekly meeting where each Team

Member:

e Reports on last week’s commitments

e Reviews and update the scoreboard and

e Makes commitment for the next week.

The Four Disciplines of Execution .... simple, but not necessarily easy.

e Whirlwind = our “day job”. The critical work we do on a day to day basis to keep

the business running.

e Lead Measures = Measures that “drive” or lead to the performance of lag

measures; normally measuring intermediate processes and activities.

e Lag Measures = Measures focusing on results at the end of a time period,

normally characterizing historical performance.

Achieving our WIG

20% of time is spent on execution (the WIG) to improve our business and 80% on our “day

to day” duties; the “Whirlwind”. The Whirlwind is urgent however the WIG is important!

Time

Whirlwind

& WIG

A huge amount of energy is required to keep our business running through our “day to day”

activities (Whirlwind) and is critical to us staying afloat; however the biggest enemy of

executing something new is the Whirlwind! When urgency and importance clash urgency

wins every time. This means we fail to execute and move forward as a Team/ Company. If

we ignore the urgent it can kill us today however if we ignore the important it will kill us

tomorrow.

in order to improve the business and move forward we must be disciplined in allocating

time to the execution of the WIG. We will find that smaller issues are eradicated through

this elevation in performance and we produce a less chaotic Whirlwind that ensures we are

controlling the now and improving for the future.

Lead Vs Lag Measures

Think in terms of losing weight. Measuring your weight on a scale is a lag measure. A key

lead measure to losing weight might be keeping track how many times a week you exercised

30 minutes a day. Another lead measure would be, tracking how many calories you ate per

day. Both lead measures will impact the lag measure.

So often, we think that weighing ourselves is the real key measure. When in reality lag

measures are the result of tracking the right lead measures. These drive the results for the

lag measures.

In business we often over look the lead measures in the execution process. We expect our

Team Members to instinctively know how accomplish the lag measure.

Lead Measure Builder Tool

1.

2.

3.

4.

Brainstorm ideas for lead measures

Brainstorm ideas for measuring those ideas

Rank in order of impact on the WIG

Test your ideas against the checklist below the Lead Measure

Builder Tool

Lead Measure Builder Tool

Have we chosen our lead measures correctly?

ie)

Are the lead measures predictive — that is, the most impactful things you can do to