SOURCE: Winning Retail - Chapter 5 Winning with Fasion.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2013
TOPIC: Fashion Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of fashion in retail success, using examples like Krispy Kreme and Pavilions to illustrate the power of fashion in diverse industries.
KEYWORDS: fashion retail, retail strategy, customer experience
---

[Document: Winning Retail - Chapter 5 Winning with Fasion.pdf]

DEVELOPING A

SUSTAINED MODEL

FOR

RETAIL SUCCESS

WILLARD N. ANDER ano NEIL Z. STERN

MCMILLAN | DOOLITTLE

CHAPTER FIVE

HOT-EST: WINNING

WITH FASHION

tores that win on fashion are Hot-Est. When we talk about Hot-

Est, we’re not talking about the latest styles to strut off the run-

ways in Paris or Milan. Far from it. ae

= — reeds —

|

on RY SE te nee nn ENS “mre me

ethene ts

ot-Est is indeed an Est that transcends product boundaries,

(See Figure 5.1.)

F There’s an element of fashion in every facet of retail, from gro-

cery stores to hardware stores. Want proof? One of the hottest

retailers in the country today is Krispy Kreme, which is selling a

decidedly traditional product, the doughnut. Yet we think Krispy

Kreme is really selling (in addition to a decadent product that tastes

Pretty good) fashion. The company has managed to package the

donut into a retail experience, with hot products coming off the vis-

fi ible production lines and customer lines snaking out the door. The

combination of nostalgia, a great-tasting product, and marvelous PR

85

WINNING AT RETAIL

FIGURE 5.1 Est Chart: Hot-Est Retailers a

Cheap-Est a

(towest prices) h

P

(service) .

we

a Hot-Est t

; (fashion) if

J The Middle Chico's i

(speed) | Target i

Big-Est

(selection)

has made the old-fashioned, bad-for-you, anti-health-trend dough-

nut one of the hottest fashion items in recent years. One of our p

recent surreal experiences was attending the opening of a Krispy Pp

Kreme in Harrod’s flagship London store, a retail fashion institution. fl

The Krispy Kreme “Hot Donuts” sign now shares space with one of ‘ uJ

retail’s most elegant stores. We sipped champagne in Harrod’s grand 2

n

ballroom while munching on hot doughnuts. Go figure.

We have been preaching the power of fashion in industries

unaccustomed to hearing the word. We worked with the Vons gro-

cery stores (now part of Safeway) to build one of the first fashion-

driven supermarkets, Pavilions, which remains an unqualified success

today. Pavilions was one of the first stores of its kind to feature sushi

bars, in-store bakeries, prepared foods, housewares, specialty and —

gourmet foods, and a host of other products we routinely take for

granted in today’s modern stores. ;

In many categories, being Hot-Est can be a nice complement to

86

Hot-Est: Winning with Fashion

an existing business, a key differentiator from a Competitor TGR

“brands, colors, or styles that set them apart from Competitors. We

have seen fashion at work in the most mundane of places, from auto

parts stores to. lumberyards.

In other categories of retail, most notably apparel, fashion is

often the main differentiator. A large number of brands vie for the

label of Hot-Est, ‘carrying the right style and fashion with the right

target customer. (BSSRaNNORIEy Proposition te continual y be on the

are side of the fashion spectrum, but the rewardiare stiMargins

(iit the Hot-Est business can be y ectacula, asthe consumer is think.

Being Hot-Est is one of the more unusual Ests because it is not

built on the same rational decision points that drive price, assort-

ment, or location. Weiffeely admie that the ability to be hottest con- hi

branding: This word connotes the ability to distinguish between a

product or service on differentiators that have their own unique

power. Coca-Cola, one of the world’s greatest brands, is selling

flavored, carbonated water, but the brand stands for so much more

than that, keying in on lifestyle, nostalgia, and other emotional char-

acteristics that on the surface seem completely absurd for a com-

modity product.

The same holds true in the retail world as well: World-class Est

retailers have a powerful emotional element that drives the business

along with purely rational characteristics,

Perhaps the most problematic challenge thrown at the Est the-

ory over the years is the lack of ability to account for the magic of a

brand. Shouldn’t there be an Est for, say, highest quality? Our

Tesponse, typically, has been to fall back on the Est model. Tiffany,

for example, is a stunningly successful jewelry retailer. The brand

conveys almost mythical style and elegance. Isn’t Tiffany selling the

87

WINNING AT RETAIL

best-quality jewelry in the world? Perhaps. We believe they are also

selling the key element of Hot-Est: themightpradwetasiittcomes inte

(GshiowWn the case of Tiffany, this means unique design sold with

wonderful elegance and flourish. If the product itself isn’t Hot-Est

(and a great deal of what Tiffany sells isn’t terribly unique), the brand

conveys a sense of Hot-Est. The famed Tiffany blue box speaks vol-

umes about what Hot-Est is all about: The buyer feels that he or she

has come to the right place and has received something special. (6G

Kcalligpwonderfallbranding, and it is, [fisMlsola demronstration of

CHot@Est.

(nlaimasyscalesthink,ofretatlestorespasytrendyconductors. Hot

@Esuretailersishouldyberexpertsiim the products they carry and’haveva 1

passioneforsharingsthatjexpertiseland for selling customers the latest;

ost fashionablesproducts) thashronpsytheygrearenergizer[of Salesyin

ilingqroneyofstheskeygreasons»customersscomesbackyonyalregular

SE frendsettingyretailers: We think of fashionashhavingithepight !

i ystuff=and havinglitimstockiwhilentisyhou |

(the upsides of being Hotbst are wemendous volume and alot

§ftraffic in vour store. The downside, equally significantyiis werk

offfStOreswlGadea with trendawz POmathe, clearance 4

JehelvesmBeing ay ashion merchant is aRePER fiskywand it also 4

pnaapepsesacesmesss issboundytogbe eyclicalsometimes hot, some= |

StimesncoldeshlotEstlistveryndifficult to mamta year jatter “year.

wihhatisawhyzourlistiof Hotkstretailerspehamyesitrequently. Tt’s also

aidifticulyproposition to communicatestoreustomersySimply. saying,

“We reliotldGesi’ecutstisihaesnotitreitonCleap=Est retailers,

on the other hand, who do have the luxury to be straightforward

with en ala wee Mart’s “Always Low Prices.”

. But Biotekst

jnesses Tr nisSiaRinicaeiomakse stmuctures — aie fuga

= allowsthemetoyspottrends. quickly,andsthenggewthieyrightimer- —

*chandise, on, their, sales. floors,.just»aspthestrendeacecleratesstLot-Est ~

88

Hot-Est: Winning with Fashion

retailers also have the ability to recover quickly when they miss,

which is what one of our original Hot-Est retailers, The Gap, has had

a difficult time doing in recent years.

[Being Hot-Est requires superior merchants to make good bets

gonsistently. ‘hat hecessitares staying’ very close to Customers

pecause you won’t survive by simply guessing what customers will