SOURCE: Winning Retail - Chapter 5 Winning with Fasion.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2013
TOPIC: Fashion Retail Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how fashion retailers can stay 'Hot-Est' by quickly spotting trends, getting the right merchandise on the floor, and recovering quickly when they miss a trend.
KEYWORDS: trend spotting, agile supply chain, promotional strategy, demographic targeting
---

[Document: Winning Retail - Chapter 5 Winning with Fasion.pdf]

with en ala wee Mart’s “Always Low Prices.”

. But Biotekst

jnesses Tr nisSiaRinicaeiomakse stmuctures — aie fuga

= allowsthemetoyspottrends. quickly,andsthenggewthieyrightimer- —

*chandise, on, their, sales. floors,.just»aspthestrendeacecleratesstLot-Est ~

88

Hot-Est: Winning with Fashion

retailers also have the ability to recover quickly when they miss,

which is what one of our original Hot-Est retailers, The Gap, has had

a difficult time doing in recent years.

[Being Hot-Est requires superior merchants to make good bets

gonsistently. ‘hat hecessitares staying’ very close to Customers

pecause you won’t survive by simply guessing what customers will

_ Want in the future. Bashion retailers must correctly predict what cus-

‘tomers will want in the future to win at being Hot-Fs. (That

MMESTNMNChtadysradyingeleading~edeesindicators-the places

{ where trends are born—whether fashion houses in Milan: and Paris,

(toodipurveyors in Seattle, or teenagers on the streets of Harlem and

the beachesrofilses Angeles.

~~ Once you've spotted the trend and interpreted it to mesh with

your customers and your store’s identity, then you must get the

product to market quickly. “QNAGRSQiiiesasupply: chain that's built

(ORSPESAAS NESE timing, which is a key element for

fashion merchants. Hot-Est retailers know when to get in to prod-

ucts, then amass big inventories as demand peaks, and exit at the

right time. Hot-Est retailers are rarely caught with yesterday’s styles.

They are sophisticated about their promotional strategies, and regu-

larly change the look and layout of their stores to keep things fresh

for shoppers. Some of the newest and most innovative fashion mer-

chants, such as Zara, H&M, and Hot Topic, are drastically altering

the game with their incredible speed to market.

Other Hot-Est retailers today include Chico’s, which sells

loosely structured women’s apparel to baby boomers. Their hottest

secret? Being right for a group of consumers (aging baby boomers)

who are often ignored by the trendier brands targeting the elusive

size 6. Chico’s sells outfits that are flattering for their demographic

and has also democratized sizes, opting for a simple 1, 2, 3 sizing

scheme. Whole Foods has elevated fashion to a high art form in the

food business. Sure, the company is selling natural food products

that are better for you, and it is devoted to this cause, but we would

89

$34.95 USA/$37.99 CANI£99 00 Fr”

WINNING AT RETAIL

also argue that Whole Foods has taken this good-for-you mission

and wrapped it around a wonderful, expensive supermarket. Rather

than customers complaining about the high prices, they justify the

added expense by knowing they are taking better care of themselves

a notoriously

and their familics. Hot Topic sells apparel to teenagers,

fickle ‘consumer group. It seems that few companies stay hot with

this consumer for very long. Hot Topic’s secret? It’s a fast follower.

Its buyers studiously monitor pop culture and are blindingly fast in

ger on an MTV

offering the styles that the latest popular lead sin

but is simply a

video is wearing. Hot Topic doesn’t set any trends,

fast follower—and 1s equally fast dumping the stuff that isn’t work-

4 manageable and hasn’t

ing. The company keeps its stores small ani

overextended. This has enabled Hot Topic to stay hot to a tough

hic for a long time. Starbucks is another excel-

f more than 1,000 per year.

enon? Despite its in-

customer demograp

lent example, opening stores at a rate ©

The best statistic about the Starbucks phenom!

th, coffee consumption in the United States is declin-

credible grow

ing and has been since Starbucks’ inception. The genius of this chain

was turning a 25-cent cup of coffee into a $4 life experience.

On a mass scale, we think the most powerful example, one

that’s managed to stay Hot-Est for a long ome, is the discount chain

Target.