SOURCE: Woman Power_ The Rise of the Sheconomy -- Printout -- TIME.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Retail Transformation
SUMMARY: Midas and Best Buy transformed their business models by incorporating women's input, leading to increased sales and a new customer-centric approach.
KEYWORDS: retail strategy, customer-centric innovation, gender-inclusive design
---

Would you be able to explain what happened at Midas to your mother?" says Rosenfeldt.

(See TIME's Pictures of the Week.)

While it's still early, and the auto business is still tough, the results are marked. In Philadelphia, Midas'

retail sales are up an average 13% since December, when the program was instituted. "Some stores

completely did a 180, literally, to the month that we started this program," says Rosenfeldt. Cautious that it

might be a fluke, Midas tried the program in St. Louis and got similarly encouraging results. The Midas

Way is now being rolled out to the rest of the U.S. The women's input "spawned a whole different way we

execute our retail model," says Rosenfeldt.

Over at Best Buy, Gilbert threw it to the WOLFs. She organized women from the stores, the head office and

among the customers into Women's Leadership Forum groups. Each WOLF pack (employees from one

area) or WOLF den (employees and sometimes customers from one store) or group of omega WOLFs

(customers) was given a specific problem to solve. They discussed how new stores should look (more like

living rooms), how to monetize teen shoppers in the mobile-phone stores (offer cute accessories to

customize a phone's look) and what to print on washing-machine swing tags (less about cubic feet and

more about how many sheets it can handle). They got to present their solutions to company executives, and

they didn't hold back. Gilbert has since left the company to market the WOLF concept to other industries,

but Best Buy has kept the program going. "The demand we have for packs and dens and omegas is almost

more than we can handle right now," says Liz Haesler, vice president of home life and trend at Best Buy.

"It's translating to significant financial results."

(Watch TIME's video "FORTUNE Magazine's 50 Most Powerful Women.")

All this in a business environment in which just 3% of FORTUNE 500 companies are headed up by women

and 15.2% of their corporate directors are female. It has proved a stubborn ceiling to crack, even with hard

data from Pepperdine University, Catalyst and McKinsey overwhelmingly suggesting that businesses with

more women at the top are better off.

As Meg Whitman recently proved, dollars can't always buy power. But they can often buy change. Wives'

education and earning power have changed the relationship they have with their family finances as well as

their families. It's not his money she's spending; it's their money — or hers. Similarly, the one-way

relationship between consumers and the mainstream media has been overturned by social networking.

Women — and men too — don't have to wait for Big Media's attention; they're taking their stories straight

to the public, and the media are following them. Midas and Best Buy, after discovering that steering their

business toward women is less like changing the oil and more like reinventing the lightbulb, transformed

their relationships with their customers, letting them see more of the guts of the operation and weigh in on

changes. If women can't get a place in the corporate inner sanctum, then they're just going to start running

companies from the outside — where the money is.

See the world's most influential people in the 2010 TIME 100.

Download TIME's iPhone, BlackBerry and Android applications.

Click to Print

Find this article at:

http://content.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,2030913,00.html

Copyright © 2014 Time Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.

Privacy Policy | Add TIME Headlines to your Site | Contact Us | Customer Service