SOURCE: Woman Power_ The Rise of the Sheconomy -- Printout -- TIME.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Uncategorized
SUMMARY: Could not generate summary
KEYWORDS: 
---

Back to Article Click to Print

Monday, Nov. 22, 2010

Woman Power: The Rise of the

Sheconomy

By Belinda Luscombe

In the hierarchy of activities that people despise, getting a car repaired is in pole position, sort of the auto

equivalent of having a tooth pulled, except you bleed money and don't get a smiley sticker as you leave.

Garry Rosenfeldt, marketing-research director for Midas International, knew this. After their cars were

fixed, only 1 in 4 Midas customers returned to buy other services. Even dentists see their customers more

often than that.

To ascertain what might make it more pleasant — or at least less odious — for customers, Rosenfeldt set up

an experiment in late 2008 in which customers were recorded before and after they brought their cars in

for repairs. He found that while auto shops inspired fear and loathing in men and women alike, the two

sexes had different ideas about how to improve the experience.

(See an infographic of the growing buying power of women.)

Since Midas is in the testosterone-y world of engine blocks and overhead camshafts, it needed to aim for

what the men wanted, right? Nuh-uh. "From a financial point of view, I'd rather have a woman in the shop

than a man," says Rosenfeldt. They're better customers, he believes, more loyal and evangelistic. "They talk

about looking for 'their guy,'" he says. And once they find him and trust him, he adds, "they spend more."

Over at Best Buy, Julie Gilbert, a senior vice president whose job it was to figure out high-end male

consumers, had already come to the same conclusion. She liked to do her research in living rooms, so she

got herself invited to a couple of rich guys' homes to figure out why they'd buy widgets and peripherals at

Best Buy but not pricey home theaters. Almost from the first home she visited, she realized she was talking

to the wrong person. "The women took over the conversation," Gilbert says. "They had incredible passion

and intensity about the store experience, and for every issue they also had a solution."

What these two and many other businesses discovered is the Sheconomy.

Everyone knows, or has long suspected, that the purse strings are held by women. It's oft repeated that they

make 85% of the buying decisions or are the chief purchasing officers of their households. The difference

today — one that has enormous consequences across global economies — is that women are also the

earners. In October 2009, the U.S. workforce became nearly half female: women held 49.9% of all nonfarm

labor jobs and 51.5% of high-paying management and professional positions, according to the Bureau of

Labor Statistics. This is not likely to be a blip. For every two guys who graduate from college or get a higher

degree, three women do. This is almost the exact opposite of the graduation ratio that existed when the

baby boomers entered college.

(Watch TIME's video "The 25 Most Powerful Women of the 20th Century.")

And as the U.S. continues its migration from a manufacturing economy to a knowledge-based one, women

are poised to snag more jobs. They make up the majority of the workforce in 9 of the 10 occupations the

BLS predicts will add the most jobs in the next eight years.

While it's true that most women still earn less than men, are far less likely to be in the highest-salaried

executive positions and suffer a prohibitive motherhood penalty, about a third of women outearn their

husbands. And according to James Chung of research firm Reach Advisors, who spent more than a year

analyzing data from the Census Bureau's 2008 American Community Survey, among one specific segment

— childless city-dwelling single people in their 20s — the average pay gap favors females: in metropolitan

areas, their median full-time income is 108% that of their male counterparts. In some places, says Chung,

"they've not just caught up — they're clocking the guys." In Atlanta, women are at 121% of men's pay; in

New York City, 117%.

These gains, mostly the product of education, may dissipate as these women have kids. Nevertheless, better

pay for more women changes many things — including, most fundamentally, how much money they have.

Evidence of this shift is visible all around the world. A recent Booz & Co. report called women "the Third

Billion," meaning that, globally, they are the next emerging economy. Much of this is a result of women's

growing economic power in developing countries, but even in the U.S., women hold sway over 51.3% of the

nation's private wealth, as Maddy Dychtwald observes in Influence, one of many books on the subject of

female economic empowerment to come out in the past 12 months. "We're on the brink of a massive power

shift, a grinding of the gears of history into a new human condition," she writes. "It's a world where women

can, if they choose, seize the reins of economic control."

See more about the state of the American woman in today's society.

As these things often do, the changes start at home. A recent Pew study of 30-to-44-year-olds showed that

when a husband is the primary or sole breadwinner, household spending decisions are divided roughly

equally. He makes about a third of them, she makes a third, and they make a third jointly. But in the 22% of

households studied in which the wife earned more, she made more than twice as many decisions as her

husband about where the money would go. The more money women earn, the exponentially more money

they manage.

And women are increasingly making the calls where men have traditionally held sway. In 2007, women

were $90 billion worth of the $200 billion consumer-electronics business. They're $105 billion of the $256

billion home-improvement market. They're 44% of NFL fans.

(See how Americans are spending now.)

Given this power shift, few indeed are the industries that aren't trying to lure the female dollar, even