SOURCE: Woman Power_ The Rise of the Sheconomy -- Printout -- TIME.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Women's Consumer Power
SUMMARY: Women are a significant force in various consumer markets, but companies often struggle to effectively market to them.
KEYWORDS: women consumers, consumer trends, marketing to women, Sheconomy, marketing strategies
---

were $90 billion worth of the $200 billion consumer-electronics business. They're $105 billion of the $256

billion home-improvement market. They're 44% of NFL fans.

(See how Americans are spending now.)

Given this power shift, few indeed are the industries that aren't trying to lure the female dollar, even

formerly deeply stubbled fields like computers, cars and financial services. Harley-Davidson has a Women

Riders section on its website. This year, Cuban cigar manufacturer Habanos launched the Julieta, a

smaller, milder cigar aimed specifically at women. Kodak, in a stroke of nomenclature genius, has a chief

listening officer on staff.

How Not to Woo Women

But for an auto shop, seducing women is not a trivial matter. What is Midas supposed to do, grow

geraniums in the discarded rims? In fact, according to Rosenfeldt's research, women didn't mind if the

shop was grimy or the mechanic grease-covered. They didn't even necessarily need women behind the

counter. They just wanted to get to know the guy fixing their car. And it turned out the guys quite liked

doing that too. So the head office came up with a reasonably straightforward plan, a getting-it-right

program: G.E.T. Greet. Explain. Thank. Nothing too fancy. "We sent our franchisees these books," says

Rosenfeldt. "It seemed so obvious to us. The data is plentiful: Do it and get more business."

(See TIME's covers featuring women.)

The idea went over like a tofu bar at a truck stop. Rosenfeldt estimates that about a third of the franchisees

read it, a third filed it and a third "just thought it was stupid." The head office tried persuading, arm-

twisting and rewarding. No dice. The women-friendly commercials the company tested didn't fare much

better.

Midas isn't the only company to have stumbled as it attempted to lure women. Dell took a similarly girlie

approach in May 2009 with its Della website, which in dreamy, soft-focus scenes hawked "cute" netbooks

and laptops and offered tech tips on how to find recipes online and track calories. You know how

computers get fried if you spill liquid on them? So many gallons of Internet Hatorade were poured on that

site that within 10 days, Dell had to shut Della down entirely.

"One of the big mistakes companies make is assuming women are all about the warm and fuzzy, and they're

not," says Marti Barletta, author of three books about marketing to women and the widely acknowledged

chief rabbi of the Sheconomy. "They want all the same things men do and then some."

To appeal to women, the changes in a product or service or even the way a company is run have to be more

profound. "Women have a more comprehensive decision process," says Barletta. A guy, she suggests, is a

targeted shopper. He will book the first hotel room he finds at his price point. For a woman, the secondary

characteristics are key: the gym, the spa, the sustainability, the thread count. Get the guy right and you've

made a sale; get the woman right and you have a customer.

See 10 things to buy during the recession.

And as customers, women have a weapon they haven't had before: online social networks. A cross between

a girls' night out and the mother of all organizing tools, these networks have given women the kind of

muscle that can be a blessing or a bloodbath for those it's flexed upon. Of the more than 500 million people

on Facebook, women do 62% of the sharing. It makes sense that, given their disposition to tend and

befriend, women would take to online social networks, but until it happened, nobody was quite aware of

the implications.

Johnson & Johnson found out the painful way, with a 2008 Motrin campaign that followed the inner

monologue of a mom toting her infant around in a baby carrier. It "totally makes me look like an official

mom," she notes in a Web video before agonizing over the backache it gives her. Some mothers felt

belittled. Overnight they formed a group, and @motrinmoms gave J&J a Twitter headache as emotions

escalated. The company apologized and canceled the ad.

(See pictures of expensive things that money can buy.)

Bring On the Horse

Then there's Isaiah Mustafa, the hunky Old Spice guy. Rarely has a campaign for a men's product been

more gynocentric, from its parodying of the sexist way women are often portrayed in such commercials to

its mockery of the idealized modern male partner, a hot man who can bake cakes and build a kitchen and

get two tickets to anything — while on a horse! After a couple of commercials, Mustafa took to YouTube to

give customized video responses to tweeters' requests, including a wedding proposal. You could talk to

Mustafa, and he would talk back. He wasn't a celebrity endorsing a product; he was your friend. It's

relationship marketing with an actual relationship, even if it's a put-on one. The result: in the past six

months, sales of Old Spice body-wash products have risen 27%.

Midas' retooled approach was oddly similar: change the balance of power in the relationship in favor of

customers. Let them in on the process. The company instituted a program called the Midas Way. Using

Philadelphia as its pilot city, it personalized the business, making Midas stores, ironically, more like

dentists' offices, with appointments and checkups and lots of explaining. Employees of Midas stores,

including mechanics, were offered training. Smile, they were told, even when talking on the phone. Most of

all, make sure every customer who comes in, even just for the $21.99 oil-change-and-tire-rotation special,

is shown exactly what will be done on a checklist. "The benchmark for success is, we ask the customer:

Would you be able to explain what happened at Midas to your mother?" says Rosenfeldt.

(See TIME's Pictures of the Week.)

While it's still early, and the auto business is still tough, the results are marked. In Philadelphia, Midas'