SOURCE: Women Want More_Extract.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Women's Economic Empowerment
SUMMARY: This text discusses the ongoing economic and social revolution driven by women's growing influence and spending power worldwide.
KEYWORDS: women's workforce participation, women's education, female economy, consumer behavior, economic revolution
---

Women Want More

A Revolutionary Opportunity

SEPTEMBER 08, 2009by Michael J. Silverstein and Katharine Sayre

This is an excerpt from Women Want More: How to Capture Your Share of the World's Largest, Fastest-Growing Market by

Michael J. Silverstein and Kate Sayre. Copyright © 2009, The Boston Consulting Group, Inc. Reprinted by permission of HarperCollins

Publishers. All rights reserved.

A quiet economic and social revolution is taking place as we write this book.

There may not be violence in the streets, but there is upheaval in the workplace, turmoil in the

home, radical change in the marketplace, and a struggle for influence in government and society as a

whole. It is a revolution of, by, and for women—driven by a desire for more: for ongoing education,

better ways to nurture themselves and their families, increased success as executives and

entrepreneurs, higher earnings, and better ways to manage and leverage their accumulated wealth.

It is a revolution of dissatisfaction in which women are using their checkbooks to vote no on large

sectors of the economy, including financial services, consumer electronics, consumer durables, and

healthcare. They are saying: “You don’t understand me,” “There are too many demands on my

time,” “I have an overwhelming share of house hold chores and a full- time job,” “Help me or I’ll find

another provider.”

Some observers say that the most important economic and social changes of the early twenty-first

century are taking place in China and India. We believe that the emergence of a whole new social

and economic order, which can accurately be labeled a female economy—in every country and

every arena—is an even more significant upheaval. The data we have gathered during the course of

research for this book are clear and startling:

- Worldwide, 1 billion women participate in the workforce.

- The number of working women in the United States has increased by 50 percent in the past

twenty years, to 75 million.

- Working women in the United States generate $4.3 trillion in earned income annually.

- Women account for 57 percent of the students of higher education in this country and 47

percent worldwide.

- Women worldwide make or influence at least 64 percent of all purchases in a wide variety of

categories, and a much higher percentage in many of them.

On the basis of our quantitative research and our interviews with women around the world, we

believe that these indicators will continue to move upward. And, as we’ve said, over the next several

years, women will drive an incremental increase of up to $5 trillion in global earnings—bigger than

any bailout package.

With Gains Come Dissatisfactions

However, the women we have come to know during our research for this book tell us that the

revolution is far from over. As encouraging as the data may be, the stories these women tell us

reveal that ascendancy has come at a price.

In the responses we gathered in our survey and in the interviews we conducted, women told us that

the gains they have achieved have not brought them the happiness and satisfaction one might have

expected. Even very successful women still experience significant stress, tension, and dissatisfaction.

Very few women say they have enough time, money, help, or love in their lives. And almost all

women experience simple, chronic frustration with particular products and services (as well as some

whole categories of goods), which seem to have been created and marketed by companies that have

little to no understanding of who women today are and what they want.

Ironically, much of women’s dissatisfaction comes about as a direct result of their achievements.

Women find themselves caught in an upward spiral. If they and their families are to continue to

achieve higher levels of prosperity, health, education, and accumulated wealth, they have virtually

no choice but to work full-time. Particularly in the developed world, a cycle has been created in

which families—in order to increase their income—have become dependent on each new

generation of women to improve their education and to progress higher in the workforce. In the

United States, women contributed nearly 100 percent of the change in family income in the past

decade.

To work or not to work is no longer a question for the majority of adult women.

And, although the status of women has changed, much of the world seems not to have noticed or

adjusted to the new reality. For example, the great majority of women participate in the workforce,

but these women still do most of the household chores— the cooking, cleaning, laundry, grocery

shopping, bill-paying, and childcare—that women have always done. As a result, working women

feel there are too many demands on their time. Married women with children experience the most

pressure of all.

What’s more, although women control the spending in most categories of consumer goods—

including food, clothing, personal care, household goods and services, travel, healthcare, financial

services, and education—too many companies continue to make poorly conceived products, offer

services that take up way too much of women’s precious time, and serve up outdated marketing

narratives that portray women as stereotypes.

Women’s Multiple and Conflicting Roles Create a Need for Leverage

Our research confirms that women continue to play many roles in their lives and that, because these

roles often overlap and conflict with each other, women want and expect the things they buy to

provide multiple solutions as well. Women are the major consumer spenders in the economy and

also the primary savers, so they seek value. They are usually the nurturer of the family but also seek

independence and personal fulfillment, so they want goods that help the family and also give the

woman herself a lift or a touch of pleasure. They are hardheaded household purchasing agents but

also tenderhearted dreamers, so they want quality and effectiveness as well as attention to design

and a marketing narrative.

Above all, women want agents of leverage—ways to find time, save time, free up time. They want to