SOURCE: Women Want More_Extract.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Retail Specific
TOPIC: Consumer Behavior
SUMMARY: Women want quality, effectiveness, design, and attention from brands that care, listen, and respond to their needs and desires.
KEYWORDS: female consumer, consumer behavior, brand loyalty, brand strategy, brand value proposition
---

also tenderhearted dreamers, so they want quality and effectiveness as well as attention to design

and a marketing narrative.

Above all, women want agents of leverage—ways to find time, save time, free up time. They want to

do business with companies that care, listen, and respond to their needs and desires. They want to

associate with brands that respect and honor a privileged relationship with the female consumer;

they want to align with companies that act as enablers, enhancers, protectors. And when women

find a product or service that truly meets these needs, they can become apostles for that brand.

They will compliment brands that deliver and will complain about brands that don’t. They will share

their opinions within their social networks, which can be far-reaching.

They can help a company increase its profits quickly and help a brand take root in the society.

The Opportunity Within the Revolution: A Call to Action

The emergence of the female economy holds the potential for the creation of vast wealth—the $20

trillion of consumer spending now controlled by women could climb to as high as $28 trillion in the

next several years. Women’s $12 trillion in total earnings could grow to as much as $18 trillion in the

same period.

The phenomenon is worldwide. Although we found differences between women in the countries we

studied, similarities are more significant. A woman living in Guangzhou, a second-rank city in China,

has expectations very different from those of a woman who lives on the East Side of Manhattan. But

the Chinese woman influences the purchases in her household just as women do in New York and

around the world, and the wealth of her household is steadily increasing. The Chinese woman—even

if her absolute spending power is lower than that of consumers in other countries—is a highly

profitable customer.

The rise of the worldwide female economy will challenge assumptions about how companies do

research, how they develop products, how they sell and merchandise, and how they add services to

their value proposition. Companies must rethink how they segment their audiences, how they react

to changes in consumers’ behavior, and how they capture the imagination.

Further, the female economy will challenge corporate leaders and managers to reexamine their

human resources practices—how they recruit, select, develop, integrate, retain, and provide support

to their people and how they help nurture and facilitate a healthy work-life balance.

The bad news is that only a small percentage of the companies we studied understand the

significance of the female economy to their business. If they respond to this economy at all, they do

so by fiddling with segmentation or by making small adjustments to their product line or to their

organizations, as if these powerful trends were nothing more than incremental shifts in existing

patterns. These companies do not look at the world and how it is changing through a woman’s eyes.

They do not prioritize the way their female consumers prioritize. They fail to recognize that time is

scarce for women or that easy access to information is essential; and as a result, few companies

achieve the position of trusted adviser.

The good news is that some companies do recognize the opportunity and respond to it brilliantly,

with skill, nuance, and genuine engagement. They occupy a privileged position in the market. They

enjoy breakout growth, unprecedented consumer loyalty, and category dominance. Companies like

Gerber, Banana Republic, Ecute, Haier, Harpo, and others really get women and serve them well.

We have found that these companies follow a set of practices that we call the four R’s.

Recognize. They understand the size of the opportunity in women’s goods and services and commit

themselves to researching where, how, and what the opportunity is for them.

Research. They study how their product or service is consumed, from the beginning to the end of the

process of consumption, paying careful attention to frequency of use, habituation, the process by

which dissatisfaction occurs, and the total time each consumer segment requires to buy, use, and

finish with a product or service.

Respond. They identify, with brutal honesty, the good points and the unsatisfying points of their

offering and then aggressively respond to each source of dissatisfaction.

Refine. Finally, they take their ideas to market in a way that creates lasting relationships with their

female consumers, they build connections and bridges, and they continually improve their products

to strengthen those relationships.

Our hope is that as more and more companies adopt the business practices described in this book to

better serve women, they will not only succeed for themselves but will also enable more women to

succeed and prosper.

In the chapters that follow, we will first examine forces that drive the female economy, what more

women want from their lives, and some archetypes that can help companies better understand their

customers. Then we’ll look carefully at the categories in which women report their deepest levels of

interest—and corresponding dissatisfactions. These are the areas that offer companies opportunities

to develop products and services that serve women better than ever before:

Food. Women love food, just after love itself, but find that food shopping and preparation are

chores that never end and take up far too much of their precious time, and that healthy options

often are hard to find, cost too much, or take too long to prepare.

Fitness. Most women want to be healthy and fit but are not interested in bodybuilding or working

out for its own sake. They rank fitness activities low on the list of priorities and try to squeeze fitness

in during spare pockets of time.

Beauty. Women are constantly in search of new and better ways to achieve a holistic kind of beauty

that includes appearance, especially of the face and hair, and also wellness of skin and body. They

expect the most advanced technologies, constantly improved efficacy, and also the latest in colors,

forms, and styles.