SOURCE: Workshop_Using MESOs to Tell Your Story_Kellogg.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Negotiation Strategies
SUMMARY: This text discusses the advantages of using multiple equivalent simultaneous offers (MESOs) in negotiations to anchor the negotiation, gather information, and demonstrate flexibility.
KEYWORDS: MESO, negotiation strategy, concessions, information gathering
---

Kellogg

Acar

orkshop: Using MESOs

to Tell Your Story

Professor Victoria Husted Medvec

Kellogg School of Management

‘Advantages of Making Multiple

Offers Simultaneously

# Anchor the negotiation

@ Collect information from the other side

Allows you to be aggressive — signal cooperation through

the fact that you are offering multiple options

Gather information about the other side’s relative

priorities

Test what the other side is telling you

Allows you to be more persistent

@ Make “concessions” that do not cost you anything

® Highlight your own value-add

Creating the MESO

Use your script to organize the order of the issues

The issues on top are those that you want to highlight

Remember you want three options to begin

%

%

°

%

You do not need to vary all of the issues across the three

options

a4

Vary the issues you want to call attention to or discuss

Hold constant the issues you

° want to grab

° think are less important

®Kelloge ws

The Concession Strategy Should be

Prepared at the Same Time the First

MESO is Created

¢ Remember this is the first offer — Do not try to create

MESOs to make one acceptable — you want to concede.

@ Using your script, identify the issues where you know the

other side will push back

® If there are not enough points for push back, it means your

offer is not aggressive enough

Discuss with your team how you will move when the other

side responds

You should be positioned to make a concession in the first

meeting on some issue. However, you need to adjust

something else in the offer to rationalize this concession.

Kellogg

Preparing for the

MESO Discussion

¢ Focus the rationale for the MESOs on the other

side not on yourself

* Create a story line for presenting the three options

@ Remember that you do not want to turn this into a

conversation on any single issue ( watch your

verbs: “could” rather than “will’’)

Do not be afraid of cherrypicking — this is a great

way to get information.

iA

Kellogg

Presentation of the MESO

¢ The entire presentation should focus on them and what is

important to the other side

Present the general overview of the MESO story

° Highlight what is important to the customer

° Highlight the big picture on what is different between

the options

¢ Do not agree to anything until you have agreed to

everything

° Keep all options open

% Ask them which option they prefer

6

® Ifthey say they do not like any of them, ask them to tell

you what is wrong with one of them

Interacting with the Other Side:

Reactions to the MESO

® Do not be afraid of the other side reacting to the MESO and

telling you what they do not like.

When the other side says that they do not like when some

service would be reduced, they have just said that they value the

service.

You should be ready to respond with a rationalized concession

in the first meeting. This demonstrates flexibility and allows the

other side to feel that you are listening.

When you make a concession, you are saying that you value the

other side’s business and that you want to work with them.

Every concession needs to have a rationale though.

Using MESOs throughout the

Negotiation

® In presenting MESOs listen to the other side’s

priorities and continue to develop relevant options

¢ Our first options should not be accepted

You do not need to change all of the options in when

responding. You may listen to them and modify one

of the options based on what they say while you leave

the other two options the same. Again, this difference

will draw their attention to the fact you are listening

but will allow you to remain persistent on your most

important issues.

Developing the Second Set of

MESO Options

® Remember that you may not want to change all of the

options

* You could hold constant the option that the other side was

leaning toward and create the other two options by

changing the things the other side expressed concerns

about in this option

® You could change all three options if you learned some

significant new piece of information

¢ Again, only vary the dimensions across the three options

that you want to focus on in your next conversation. Hold

constant the issues that you do not want to focus them on

° in the meeting.

Preparing a MESO for a Bidding

Situation or an RFP

® Remember that in an RFP if you present only one option, it is impossible to

differentiate yourself

@ You may believe that you will win if you have the best price, but in fact, you will only

win if the other side wanted you to win in the first place. If not, they will simply use

your price to shop down someone else’s price

@ Use MESOs to differentiate yourself

Inan RFP, Option A should always be exactly what they asked for and your language

should reflect this — per your request, in response to your proposal, etc.

@ Option A should only respond to their request though and should not include anything

beyond their request.

@ Options B and C are your opportunity to differentiate yourself and distinguish

yourself from your competition.

® Ifthere is a strong competitive threat revealed in your BATNA analysis, you should

use either Option B or C as the “competitor matching” alternative. This will allow

you to educate the other side on the differences between your option and the

competitor’s option and to assess the value the other side places on these differences.

MESO Development —

Common Traps

® Varying too many issues across the three options —

remember that you want to create a compelling story.

Vary the issues you want to call attention to; hold constant