SOURCE: Work Outs Updates - Collated Responses.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.07 HFT - Work Outs Updates
TOPIC: CAPEX Project Delivery
SUMMARY: This document discusses the problems, challenges, and feedback related to conducting work-out sessions to improve the effectiveness of CAPEX project delivery.
KEYWORDS: CAPEX, project delivery, work-out sessions, team feedback, problem-solving
---

HIGH FOCUS TOPIC : WORK-OUT UPDATE CHAIRPERSON: BRETT BLUNDY PAGE 1/2

TUE 26 JULY 2016 | 2 PM SGT | 4 PM AEST

PARTICIPANTS' RESPONSES SUMMARY

NO PARTICIPANTS QUESTION 1 QUESTION 2 QUESTION 3 QUESTION 4

Please list the problem statements for the current Work-Outs that Please comment on the success / challenges of implementing Please high-light what the feedback has been from the team for List any additional comments or help you might require to further

are being conducted within your business. Also indicate the Work-Outs to-date. those who have participated in a Work-Out so far. sustain and drive a Work-Out focused culture.

effectiveness of using in-scope / out-of-scope when scoping the

problem.

1 AVENTUS What are the problems and barriers that prevent us from To date, we have had one workout (BLITZ) and the implementation • Great blitz I thought! • Empower the teams creativity and problem solving skills by

Darren Holland effectively delivering CAPEX on time and on BIP from 30% to at of this has been very smooth across the team. Relaunching the • I think it was productive, well-structured and reflected balanced allowing them to suggest BLITZ topics

Gary Jones least 80% (by project value) by October 1st 2016?” In scope workouts as BLITZ’s created a renewed energy and excitement input from the team. I know this outcome doesn’t happen by • Include an overview on the BLITZ program in our inductions

Lawrence Wong helped ensure the relevance of the problem statement and helped across the team about future BLITZ’S. Personally inviting each accident. • BLITZ Team updates to be provided in Huddles weekly and

Julie Meehan direct participants towards areas for problems and solutions. Out participant including an explanation as to why they were chosen • I felt proud to be invited and eager to give my input. Implementation updates provided by the BLITZ teams at team

of scope helped focus the group to the more detailed/creative for the first BLITZ really empowered the team and they felt very • It was a lot of fun but we also achieved a result. forums

solutions, particularly around processes, and increased privileged to be involved. A mixture of departments, personality • Now the hard work begins to make it happen. • Records of previous Blitzs are kept to inspire for future Blitzs

accountability for the current team rather than deferring types and experience levels maximised the variety of ideas and • Workouts/Blitzs form part of the BBRC newsletter

resolution to an additional person or IT system. solutions. Ice breaker was key to setting the mood for the 2 days.

Make sure it is fun so the feedback gets back to the broader team

so they want to all get involved next time. Venue (Sweven) worked

well because there were no distractions. Project champion

arranged first follow up meeting before they event left the venue.

Challenges – Looking at solutions in scope of problem solution

time frame and 90 days. A lot of great solutions extended beyond

the time frame so the challenge is to keep the momentum going

for the longer period. Sponsor needs to physically attend for

opening address to stress and highlight importance of event to the

company. Arranging a time that suits everyone is unlikely to

happen, so was harder to engage some groups within the team to

participate than others.

2 BRAS N THINGS • Workout Date: 15th/16th March - Problem Statement: What are Prior to having the Work-Out on Work-Outs, we had held one on The majority of responses towards Workouts have been very As a brand we should share our Work-Out successes with the rest

George Wahby the problems and barriers preventing us from improving our transfers. Upon review we now recognise this was poorly positive however there is still a concern that Work-Outs will of the group for example: Gary Mortlock, at the end of the 2 day

Glynn Wright Transfers from 10 days to 5 days in-transit and improve the cost executed. This workout though has still improved processes which distract Team from their usual roles as well as the additional BBRC session, shared a story on how 1 Work-Out saved Sanity over

Ray Itaoui per unit by 50%? halved the time to complete in store and a cost review is workload. $1M in freight costs. The more we share our successes, the more

Julie Hastings • Workout Date (Boot Camp): 7th/8th June - “What are the underway to assess the ROI on getting the stock on the shop floor Once team have attended they show an enthusiasm to workouts this will encourage each of the brands to commit to Work-Outs

problems and barriers that prevent us from reducing the number faster. National rollout estimated to go ahead in 2 weeks. and love the interactions with other team members and the completely in expectation of the outcomes.

of people hours spent in meetings, by 50%, from 380 Hours per process. We also have created ground rules around Work-Outs

week to 190 hours per week, by 8.09.2016?” Following the session on Work-Outs with the other BBRC brands, which will prevent over using team EG. Facilitators or attendees

• Workout Date: 21st/22nd July - What are the problems and we internally reviewed our processes and completed a Work-Out are only allowed to participate in 2 Work-Outs per year.

barriers preventing us from increasing our Items Per Sale (IPS) boot camp with the Key Department Heads to educate and embed Team found an overlap of tasks from different Action Plans. This

from 2.22 to 2.8 by 22nd October 2016? Work-Outs into the business. During this session we also ran a must be taken into consideration when creating Action Plans in the

• Workout Date: 21st/22nd July - What are the problems and Work-Out on how to reduce the number of hours of Team spend future, the role of facilitator must ensure that this doesn’t occur