SOURCE: Work Outs Updates - Collated Responses.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.07 HFT - Work Outs Updates
TOPIC: Business Process Improvement
SUMMARY: The text discusses challenges and barriers in improving business processes and achieving targeted financial goals, and proposes work-out sessions to address these issues.
KEYWORDS: process improvement, financial goals, work-out sessions, barriers, challenges
---

Steve Doyle important and urgent and will make a real difference to our action plans that are currently in place for FY16/17 to reach our EBIT are worth considering as work out topics. The team were excited focused culture will be managing the perception of time taken to

Graeme Fallet performance and has been chosen for these reasons. We want to target. Our main challenge has been facilitating times for key players to to hear we are driving work outs again as we have a number of conduct and carry out the actions plans on top of our already fast

Fleur Martin develop a solution to these problems as they pay off will be be available at the one time, on top already pressing schedules. Put in team familiar with the process. Throughout the first mini session paced world. However once the benefits of workouts become

significant on a number of levels. perspective we know the pay off is significant and will have an our team supported and enjoyed the brainstorming process and widely known we will build the momentum of the importance of

incredible impact on the business so we continue to break through and categorising of the ideas. Generally speaking we have had positive work-out and the results they bring so we envisage time will not

a. “What are the problems and barriers that prevent us from set the pace. feedback that we are bringing Work Outs back into the business an issue mid-term.

improving our processes allowing us to achieve a 10% increase in regularly and placing and importance on continuous improvement.

margin or greater by November 2016”. Work out on Tuesday 2nd

August.

b. ‘”What are the problems and barriers that prevent us from

improving the Sale process- reducing the time taken to set up and

reduce costs by 1/3 or greater by November 2016”. Work out on

Wednesday 3rd August.

It’s essential to decide what will be in – out of scope for these

topics as they effect a number of departments. We require the

Workout team to think outside the square they are currently in, to

get us to the potential payoff that we are aiming to achieve. The

problems identified have been long standing problems and as they

effect various departments, therefore there are items that need to

be considered out scope as they are fundamental parts of our

business that we are not looking to change right now, the IT

platform for example. The items in- scope however are moving

parts of the equation that have been identified as areas of

opportunity that are impacting us.