SOURCE: Work Outs Updates - Collated Responses.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices\2016.07 HFT - Work Outs Updates
TOPIC: Operational Efficiency and Cost Reduction
SUMMARY: The text discusses problems and barriers preventing the company from reducing freight costs, lead times, Christmas sales, and service desk tickets, and highlights the importance of Work-Out sessions in addressing these issues.
KEYWORDS: freight costs, lead times, Christmas sales, service desk tickets, Work-Out sessions
---

• Workout Date: 21st/22nd July - What are the problems and Work-Out on how to reduce the number of hours of Team spend future, the role of facilitator must ensure that this doesn’t occur

barriers that prevent us from reducing our freight costs from in meetings throughout the week. The workout is in the 60day part during the Work-Out. This was covered at the facilitator training.

$2.9mil to $1.9mil by 22nd October 2016? of the action plan.

Other planned workouts: Following the Work-Out boot camp, we now have the full support

• What are the problems and barriers preventing us from reducing of the leadership Team in integrating Work-Outs into the business

our product lead times from xxx to xxx by 2nd December 2016? as they now have a greater understanding of the importance,

• What are the problems and barriers preventing us from functionality and impact.

doubling our best ever amount of Xmas Non Negotiable items sold We have rolled out Work-Out facilitator training and we have 6

during a Xmas period from 50,000 units of slippers sold to 100,000 facilitators within BnT

units of our new Xmas Non Negotiable by 22nd May 2017? We are currently planning for our next 2 Work-Outs in the coming

• What are the problems and barriers preventing us from having weeks. In planning these dates, it has become evident that if not

our service desk tickets halved from 500 tickets to 250 tickets by managed tightly, we can fall back into back habits, such as not

22nd May 2017? preparing a strong enough Sensing Document or not selecting the

right Team to attend the Work-Outs.

Most importantly it is to ensure they do not waste time on

solutions that we will never approve or will take too long to

implement. Also to ensure that the team are clear on the potential

solutions available to them.

HIGH FOCUS TOPIC : WORK-OUT UPDATE CHAIRPERSON: BRETT BLUNDY PAGE 2/2

TUE 26 JULY 2016 | 2 PM SGT | 4 PM AEST

NO PARTICIPANTS QUESTION 1 QUESTION 2 QUESTION 3 QUESTION 4

Please list the problem statements for the current Work-Outs that Please comment on the success / challenges of implementing Please high-light what the feedback has been from the team for List any additional comments or help you might require to further

are being conducted within your business. Also indicate the Work-Outs to-date. those who have participated in a Work-Out so far. sustain and drive a Work-Out focused culture.

effectiveness of using in-scope / out-of-scope when scoping the

problem.

3 DUSK “Have the dusk business back into the net & absolute measures for We start our workout on 26/7. We start our workout on 26/7. We have made the attendance for the workout quite selective,

Peter King stocktakes by the 2nd H of F17.” highlighting those chosen as high achievers to the business. By

doing so, we aim to elevate the workout process as something

We have nominated ‘’additional hours/$’’ as the only out of scope aspirational for the retail team members to participate in at

outcome for this exercise. We have deliberately left in all other Alexandria. We will conduct a thorough review of our 1st workout

outcomes to stimulate discussion. once completed.

4 HONEY BIRDETTE Part of the continued growth of Honey Birdette is building our Our biggest challenge has been allowing the time to conduct a ‘by The feedback has been quite positive. It was unanimously agreed Giving ‘permission’ to allow the team adequate time and space to

Eloise Monaghan email subscribers. By some estimations, over the course of 12 the book’ work-out, usually conducted over 2 – days. We found that it was good to get other team members opinions around work through these ideas both creatively and communally really

Chris Gillian months – 1 x email sign up is worth approx. $10 in revenue to the that allowing an afternoon for this process was sufficient for our areas of opportunities. made a difference. It is up to leadership to encourage work-outs as

business. There are a few methods in place already to capture smaller team. a method for solving larger business issues and ensuring that

emails at both a digital and physical store level, however, we are adequate time is allowed to do so correctly.

still only averaging 13 sign-ups per store each week. We can do To make this a more creative and fun experience, we provided the

better! We need to take action to increase our email sign-ups team with a catered lunch and opened up the forum to other

across the business to meet our goal of 5000 sign ups per month. business productivity suggestions. This allowed us to identify,

aside from email sign ups, other key areas of the business

To ensure all team could contribute, nothing was out of scope. We (particularly head office operations) that need attention to help

used this work-out as a way of introducing the concept to the increase productivity. Making this a more ‘social’ affair with food,

entire HQ team and so, wanted everyone to bring something to drink and discussion certainly got the creative flow happening.

the table in regards to ideas. Team who were struggling to identify areas of opportunity or

issues prior to the meeting were suddenly feverishly writing down

and proposing additional ideas as they noticed the positive

recognition and acceptance of all thoughts and ideas.

5 LOVISA We are holding two one day workouts in early August. Each goal is Since our first mini workout held in early June we have formed key Each department has submitted their top 3 opportunities they feel The main help we can foresee to help us to drive a Work-Out

Steve Doyle important and urgent and will make a real difference to our action plans that are currently in place for FY16/17 to reach our EBIT are worth considering as work out topics. The team were excited focused culture will be managing the perception of time taken to