SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Model Innovation
SUMMARY: Businesses can create new business models by separating disruptive ventures into autonomous units with different cost structures and priorities.
KEYWORDS: disruptive innovation, business model transformation, organizational separation
---

businesses. This can be framed as a make-or-buy decision. We typically frame make-or-buy decisions as

relating to resources, such as making vs. procuring components, developing vs. licensing technology, and

so on. But processes and business models can also be made or bought, as described below.

Creating New Business Models

Companies can develop the capability to prioritize a disruptive opportunity only by setting up a

new business unit with a new cost structure. Charles Schwab, for example, set up its disruptive online

brokerage venture as an autonomous organization, pricing online trades at $29.95, compared to the $69

that Schwab had been charging for trades executed through its telephone and office-based brokers. The

separate unit was indeed disruptive to the mainstream, It grew so fast that within eighteen months the

company decided to fold what had been the mainstream business into the new disruptive organization.

The corporation’s cost structure, and thereby its priorities, were transformed by launching a successful

disruptive enterprise. Separation was a much simpler way to create a new business model that could view ,

$29.95 as a profitable proposition than it would have been to hack enough cost out of the original

organization so that it could make money at the disruptive price point.

Creating new business units rather than transforming the business models of existing units is the

best way to manage business model innovation because the disruptive game almost always begins while

the established business still has substantial, profitable sustaining potential.

What does autonomous mean? Geographical separation from the core business is not a critical

dimension of autonomy. Nor is ownership structure — a disruptive venture can be wholly owned by its

parent. The key dimensions of autonomy relate to processes and priorities. Disruptive businesses need to

have the freedom to create new processes, and build a unique cost structure in order to be profitable as

they make and sell even their earliest products. Moreover, they need to be allowed to compete with — and

cannibalize ~ their sister divisions.

A single organizational unit cannot viably contain within it two fundamentally different cost

structures or business models. When executives force different business models together into a single

6

unit in the name of “cost savings,” at least one — and often both — of the business models is destroyed.

Here’s an example: To prosper from the disruption of photographic film by digital imaging, in the mid-

1990s Kodak had established a digital business group — comprised of some highly profitable niche

businesses as well as consumer cameras. In 2001 Kodak management decided to strip away the niche

businesses whose profitability tended to obscure the intrinsic economics of consumer cameras. This left a

“pure” unit whose only products were consumer digital cameras. “When I finally stood naked in front of

the mirror,” said Willy Shih, VP and General Manager of the division, “It was simply horrifying.” But

this isolation helped the unit’s management team create an economic model in which they could

profitably grow a digital camera business. It was very successful. By 2004 Kodak’s U.S. market share

had grown from 8% to 28% -- and the business was profitable. '

When Antonio Perez replaced retiring Chairman-CEO Dan Karp in 2004, he decided to fold

digital photography into Kodak’s consumer film business. His logic was that because both were

consumer businesses, duplicate overhead costs could be cut significantly by combining the business units.

Within two years Kodak had fallen to a distant third in the digital camera race.’* Consumer cameras were

viewed as unprofitable; and in August 2006 the company decided to hand off its digital camera operations

to Flextronics. There is a dimension of cost that one does not learn in the typical accounting course. It is

easy to see and calculate the cost savings from elimination of “duplicate overhead”. It is much harder to

anticipate and calculate the cost of the slowly eroding market share and the gradually declining

prices/margins that often result when previously dedicated and focused product development, marketing,

and sales resources are eliminated in the pursuit of synergies, or diluted by being combined with another

organization and given many other products to support.

Buying Resources, Processes, and Priorities

Managers often conclude that acquiring rather than building required capabilities makes

competitive and financial sense. Unfortunately, companies’ track records in developing new capabilities

through acquisition are frighteningly spotty. The RPP framework can be a useful way to frame the

challenge of integrating acquired organizations. When one company acquires another, it buys its

resources, its processes, and the priorities embedded in its business model. Acquiring managers therefore

need to begin by asking, “What is it that really made this company that J just bought so attractive? Did I

justify the price because of its resources—its people, products, technology, or market position? Or was a

substantial portion of its worth created by its processes and business model — its unique ways to

understand and satisfy customers; develop, make, and deliver new products in a timely way; and do so

within a cost structure that gave it disruptive potential?”

If the acquired company’s processes and business model are the real drivers of its success, then

the last thing the acquiring manager wants to do is fully integrate it into the parent organization.

Integration will vaporize the processes and business model of the acquired firm when its employees are

required to adopt the buyer’s way of doing business and have their new-growth proposals evaluated

according to the prioritization criteria and product development processes of the acquiring company. If

processes and profit model were the reason for its historical success, a better strategy is to let the acquired

business stand alone, and for the parent to infuse its resources into the acquired firm’s processes and

business model. This truly constitutes the acquisition of new capabilities.

If, on the other hand, the company’s resources (e.g., plant capacity, product platforms,

geographic position, intellectual property) were the primary rationale for the acquisition, then integrating