SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Mergers and Acquisitions
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of aligning an acquired company's resources, processes, and business model with the parent company's capabilities to achieve successful integration.
KEYWORDS: mergers, acquisitions, integration, capabilities, business model
---

business model. This truly constitutes the acquisition of new capabilities.

If, on the other hand, the company’s resources (e.g., plant capacity, product platforms,

geographic position, intellectual property) were the primary rationale for the acquisition, then integrating

the firm into the parent makes a lot of sense — essentially plugging the acquired people, products,

technology, and customers into the parent’s processes as a way of leveraging the parent’s existing

capabilities.

Consider, in this light, Daimler-Benz’s acquisition of Chrysler and its subsequent efforts to

integrate the two organizations. Chrysler had few resources that could be considered unique. Much of its

success in the 1990s was rooted in its product design process, which could create classy new designs in

twenty-four months. Chrysler’s profit model was also worth a lot, because it could get a car to market

with one-fifth as many overhead employees as Daimler. What would have been the best way for Daimler

to leverage the capabilities it acquired in Chrysler? By keeping it independent and infusing Daimler’s

resources (cash, advanced technologies, purchasing clout) into Chrysler’s processes and its cost structure.

Instead, as Wall Street began its demanding drumbeat for cost savings, Daimler management consolidated

the two organizations to cut costs. Integration compromised many of the key processes and the cost

structure that had made Chrysler such an attractive acquisition.

In contrast, many of Cisco Systems’ acquisitions have worked well — because, we would argue, it

has kept resources, processes, and business models in the right perspective. Most of the companies that

Cisco has acquired have been small firms less than two years old: early-stage organizations whose market

value was based upon their resources — particularly their engineers, technologies and products. Cisco has

a well-defined, deliberate process by which it essentially plugs these resources into the parent’s processes

and systems, and it has a carefully cultivated method of keeping the engineers of the acquired company

happily on the Cisco payroll."" In the process of integration, Cisco throws away whatever nascent

processes and priorities came with the acquisition, because those weren’t what Cisco paid for. On a

couple of occasions when the company acquired a larger, more mature organization—notably its 1996

acquisition of StrataCom and its 2003 purchase of Linksys — Cisco did nof integrate. Rather, it let them

stand alone - even retaining their own separate brand in the case of Linksys -- and infused its substantial

resources into those organizations’ processes and business models to help them grow at a more rapid rate.

Cr

Managers whose organizations are confronting change must first determine whether they have the

resources required to succeed. They then need to ask a separate question: Does the organization have the

processes and business model priorities it needs to succeed in this new situation? Asking this second

question is not as instinctive for most managers because the processes by which work is done and the

priorities by which employees make their decisions have served them well in the past. What we hope this

framework introduces into managers’ thinking is the idea that the very capabilities that make their

organizations effective also define their disabilities. In that regard, a little time spent soul-searching for

honest answers to the following questions will pay off handsomely: Are the processes by which work

habitually gets done in the organization appropriate for this new problem? And will the embedded

business model of the organization cause this initiative to get high priority or to languish?

If the answers to these questions are no, it’s okay. Understanding a problem is the most crucial

step in solving it. Wishful thinking about these issues can set teams that need to innovate on a course

fraught with roadblocks, second-guessing, and frustration. The reason that innovation often seems to be

so difficult for established companies is that they employ highly capable people and then set them to work

within organizational structures whose processes and priorities weren’t designed for the task at hand.

Ensuring that capable people are ensconced in capable organizations is a major responsibility of

management in a transformational age such as ours.

' One of the most important studies on this topic is summarized in Dorothy Leonard-Barton, “Core Capabilities and

Core Rigidities: A Paradox in Managing New Product Development,” Strategic Management Journal 13 (1992):

111-125.

? The theory presented in this paper was initially published in Clayton Christensen and Michael Overdorf, “Meeting

the Challenge of Disruptive Change,” Harvard Business Review, March~April 2000.

3? The most comprehensive characterization of processes that we have seen is in David Garvin, “The Processes of

Organization and Management,” Sloan Management Review, Summer 1998. When we use the term processes, we

mean for it to include all of the types of processes that Garvin has defined.

4 See C. Wickham Skinner, “The Focused Factory,” Harvard Business Review, | May 1974.

5 This was a key finding of the landmark research summarized in Henderson, Rebecca M. & Kim B. Clark (1991),

“Architectural Innovation: The reconfiguration of Existing Systems and the Failure of Established Firms,”

Administrative Science Quarterly (35), pp. 9-30.

® The concept of priorities, as we define the term here, is similar to the constructs of “structural context” and

“strategic context” that have emerged in scholarly work about the resource allocation process. Important works in

this tradition include J. L. Bower, Managing the Resource Allocation Process (Homewood, IL: Richard D, Irwin,

1972), and R. Burgelman, “Corporate Entrepreneurship and Strategic Management: Insights from a Process Study,”

Management Science 29, no, 12 (1983): 1349-1364.

7 The pharmaceutical industry is a case in point. Twenty years ago most pharmaceutical companies considered a

drug that generated $100 million in revenue per year to be significant. As they grew organically and through

acquisition, $100 million drugs lost their luster; and $1 billion drugs became the benchmark blockbusters. As Pfizer

and Glaxo Smith-Kline (GSK) have continued to merge to grow, the blockbuster benchmark has inflated to $3-$5

billion. Paltry $1 billion drugs are losing their luster. At the time of this writing (2006) the business press