SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses examples of disruptive innovations, including Hewlett Packard, Intel, Intuit, Japanese steel makers, JetBlue, and Kodak.
KEYWORDS: disruptive innovation, technology disruption, industry disruption
---

now the mainstream printer of choice, having pushed laser jets to the high end. Hewlett Packard stayed atop

this industry by setting up an autonomous ink jet business unit to compete against its laser jet printer

business.

Inte] micro-

processor

Intuit’s

QuickBooks

accounting

software

Intel’s earliest microprocessor in 1971 could only constitute the brain of a four-function calculator. Makers

of computers whose logic circuitry is microprocessor-based have disrupted firms that made mainframe and

minicomputers, whose logic circuitry was printed wiring board-based,

Whereas the established industry leaders in accounting software enabled small business managers to run all

sorts of sophisticated reports for analytical purposes, QuickBooks, which was a derivative of Intuit’s personal

finance software product Quicken, basically helped them keep track of their cash. It created a huge new

market amongst very small business owners (most less than five employees) who historically did not keep

their books on computer. Within two years of launch Intuit had seized 85% of the small business accounting

1-21

software market — mainly by creating new growth. The stealing of the established companies’ customers

came later, as QuickBooks’ functionality improved.

Intuit’s Turbotax

PC-based accounting software is disrupting personal tax preparation services such as H&R Block.

Japanese Steel

Makers

Firms like Nippon Steel, Nippon Kokkan and Kobe and Kawasaki Steel began their growth by exporting very

low quality steel to western markets starting in the late 1950s. As their customers (including disruptive

Japanese auto makers like Toyota) grew, the Japanese steel industry had to increase capacity dramatically,

enabling it to incorporate the latest steelmaking technology like continuous casting and basic oxygen

furnaces in the new mills, This accelerated their up-market trajectory dramatically.

Jet Blue

Kodak

Whereas Southwest Airlines initially followed a strategy of new-market disruption, Jet Blue’s approach is

low-end disruption. Its long-range viability depends upon the major airlines’ motivation to run away from

the attack, as integrated steel mills and full-service department stores did,

Until the late 1800s, photography was extremely complicated. Only professionals could own and operate the

expensive equipment. George Eastman’s simple “point and shoot” “Brownie” camera allowed consumers to

take their own pictures. They could then mail the encased roll of film to Kodak, which would develop and

return the photos by mail.

Kodak Funsaver

Kodak’s Funsaver-brand single-use camera was born out after painful labor within Kodak, because its profit

model - gross margins - were lower than Kodak could eam by selling roll film; and the quality of the images

was not as good as those taken in high-quality 35mm cameras. But Kodak commercialized it through a

different division, and it sold almost exclusively to people who would not have bought film anyway —

because they didn’t have a camera. While it has potential to move up-market taking share against traditional

cameras with a new brand, Maxx, we sense that Kodak has stopped driving it in this direction.

Korean auto

manufacturers:

Hyundai & Kia

Korean automakers, including Hyundai and Kia, gained more points of worldwide market share in the 1990s

than any other country’s automakers. And yet few of the established firms are concerned, because their gains

have come in what is, to them, the lowest-profit portion of the market,

MBNA

McDonald’s

MCT, Sprint

We noted above that credit scoring is a formulaic method of determining the creditworthiness of a loan

applicant. It was originally implemented in commercial banks as a sustaining technology ~ to reduce their

costs of credit evaluation. In the 1990s, however, it was deployed in high-volume, low-cost “monoline”

business models by firms such as MBNA, Capital One and First USA, which have substantially disrupted

commercial banks’ credit card business, At the time of this writing, in fact, Citibank is the only major

commercial bank with a substantial and profitable credit card business.

The fast food industry has been a hybrid disruptor, making it so inexpensive and convenient to cat out that

they created a massive wave of growth in the “cating out” industry. Their earliest victims were “mom-and-

pop” diners. In the last decade the advent of food courts has taken fast food up-market. Expensive, romantic

high-end restaurants still thrive at the high end, of course.

These firms were low-end disruptors relative to AT&T’s long distance telephone business. They enjoyed a

unique opportunity to do this, because AT&T's long distance rates were set by regulation at artificially high

levels, in order to subsidize local residential telephone service.

Merrill Lynch

Charles Merrill’s mantra in 1912 was to “Bring Wall Street to Main Street.” By employing salaried rather

than commissioned brokers, he made it inexpensive enough to trade stocks that middle-income Americans

could become equity investors. Merrill Lynch moved up-market over the next 90 years towards higher net

worth investors. Most of the brokerage firms that held seats on the New York Stock exchange in the 1950s

and 60s have been merged out of existence, because Merrill Lynch disrupted them.

Microsoft

Its operating system was inadequate versus those of mainframe and minicomputer makers; versus Unix; and

versus Apple’s system. But its migration from DOS to Windows to Windows NT is taking the firm up-

market, to the point that the Unix world is seriously threatened. Microsoft, in turn, faces a threat from Linux.

Mini-computers

Companies like Digital Equipment, Prime, Wang, Data General and Nixdorf were new-market disruptors

relative to mainframe computer makers. Their relative simplicity and low price enabled departments

(particularly engineering) in organizations to have their own computers, instead of having to rely on

inconvenient, centralized mainframe computers that typically were optimized for generating financial reports,

On-line stock

brokers

On-line trading of equities is a sustaining technology relative to the business models of discount brokers such

as Ameritrade, and is disruptive relative to full-service brokers such as Merrill Lynch. For Schwab, which

started as a bare-bones discount broker but had moved up towards the mainstream market by the mid-1990s,

Internet-based trading was disruptive enough that the company had to set up a separate division.

On-line travel

agencies