SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Pharmaceutical Industry Trends
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges faced by major pharmaceutical companies in developing new drugs, with a focus on the declining number of blockbuster drugs and the need to target smaller disease markets.
KEYWORDS: Pharmaceutical Industry, Blockbuster Drugs, Disruptive Innovation, Ambidextrous Organizations, Disease Markets
---

and Glaxo Smith-Kline (GSK) have continued to merge to grow, the blockbuster benchmark has inflated to $3-$5

billion. Paltry $1 billion drugs are losing their luster. At the time of this writing (2006) the business press

frequently contrasts the declining number of new drugs emerging from the pipelines of the major pharmaceutical

companies, Is this because the science is tired? We don’t think so. More useful new molecules, enzymes and

proteins than ever are being developed. The problem is that fewer and fewer of them target disease markets that are

large enough to be prioritized as attractive by the major pharmaceutical companies.

® See Edgar Schein, Organizational Culture and Leadership (San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 1988). This description of

the development of an organization’s culture draws heavily from Schein’s research,

° Professors Michael Tushman of Harvard and Charles O’Reilly of Stanford have studied deeply the need to manage

organizations in this way to create what they call “ambidextrous organizations.” As we understand their work, they

assert that it is not enough simply to spin off an autonomous organization to pursue important but disruptive

innovations that don’t match the mainstream organization’s priorities. The reason is that too often, executives spin it

off to get the disruption off their agenda so that they can focus on managing the core business. To create a truly

ambidextrous organization, Tushman and O’Reilly assert that the two different organizations need to be located

within a business unit. Responsibility for managing the disruptive and sustaining organizations needs to be at a level

in the organization where the two are not treated as businesses in a portfolio, Rather, they should be within a group

or business unit whose management has the bandwidth to pay careful attention to what should be integrated and

shared across the groups, and what should be implemented autonomously. See Michael L. Tushman and Charles A.

O'Reilly, Winning Through Innovation: A Practical Guide to Leading Organizational Change and Renewal

(Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 2002).

'° See chapter 2 in Clayton Christensen and Michael Raynor, The Innovator’s Solution. Boston: Harvard Business

School Press, 2002

11 See chapter 4 in Clayton Christensen and Michael Raynor, The Znnovator’s Sohition. Boston: Harvard Business

School Press, 2002.

"? Willy Shih provided this information during a series of personal interviews at the Harvard Business School with

Clayton Christensen between 2004 and 2006.

8 Reuters, “U.S. Digital Camera Shipments rise 17% in Q2,”

http://today.reuters.com/stocks/QuoteCompanyNewsArticle.aspx?view=CN&storyID=2006-08-

02T201427Z_01_N02236206_RTRIDST_0_TECH-DIGITALCAMERAS.XML&rpc=66

'* See Charles A. Holloway, Steven C. Wheelwright, and Nicole Tempest, “Cisco Systems, Inc.: Acquisition

Integration for Manufacturing,” Case OIT26 (Palo Alto and Boston: Stanford University Graduate School of

Business and Harvard Business School, 1998)

Chapter 6

How to Avoid Commoditization

What causes commoditization? Is it the inevitable end-state of all companies in

competitive markets? Can companies take action at any point in their

development that can arrest its onset? Once the tide of commoditization has

swept through an industry, can the flow be reversed back towards proprietary,

differentiated, profitable products? How could I do this?

_.«*Many executives have resigned themselves to the belief that, no matter how miraculous

their iz,ovations, their inevitable fate is to be “commoditized.” These fears are grounded in

painful experience. Here’s a frightening example: The first one-gigabyte 3.5-inch disk drives

were introduced to the world in 1992 at prices that enabled their manufacturers to earn 60

percent gross margins. These days, disk drive companies are struggling to eke out 15 percent

margins on drives that are sixty times better. This isn’t fair, because these things are mechanical

and microelectronic marvels. How many of us could mechanically position the head so that it

stored and retrieved data in circular tracks that are only 0.00008 inch apart on the surface of

disks, without ever reading data off the wrong track? And yet disk drives of this genre are

regarded today as undifferentiable commodities. If products this precise and complicated can be

commoditized, is there any hope for the rest of us?

It turns out that there is hope. One of the most exciting insights from our research about

commoditization is that whenever it is at work somewhere in a value chain, a reciprocal process

of de-commoditization is at work somewhere else in the value chain.' And whereas

commoditization destroys a company’s ability to capture profits by undermining differentiability,

de-commoditization creates opportunities to create and capture potentially enormous wealth. The

‘recinrocality of these processes means that the locus of the ability to differentiate shifts

continuously in a value chain as new waves of disruption wash over an industry. As this happens,

companies that position themselves at a spot in the value chain where performance is not yet

good enough will capture the profit.

Our purpose in this chapter is to help managers understand how these processes of

commoditization and de-commoditization work, so that they can detect when and where they are

beginning to happen. We hope that this understanding can help those who are building growth

businesses to do so in a place in the value chain where the forces of de-commoditization are at

work. We also hope it helps those who are running established businesses to reposition their

firms in the value chain to catch these waves of de-commoditization as well. To return to Wayne

Gretzky’s insight about great hockey playing, we want to help managers develop the intuition for

skating not to where the money presently is in the value chain, but to where the money will be

5-1]

\s"

Aad”

The Processes of Commoditization and De-commoditization

The process that transforms a profitable, differentiated, proprietary product into a

commodity is the process of overshooting and modularization we described in chapter 4. At the

leftmost side of the disruption diagram, the companies that are most successful are integrated

companies that design and assemble the not-good-enough end-use products. They make

attractive profits for two reasons. First, the interdependent, proprietary architecture of their

products makes differentiation straightforward. Second, the high ratio of fixed to variable costs