SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Model Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses different types of business model innovations, including decentralization, new-market disruptions, and low-end disruptions.
KEYWORDS: business model innovation, decentralization, new-market disruption, low-end disruption
---

locations, enabling them to “serve” it at lower prices to a larger population of smaller companies, in distributed locations—

companies and locations that previously could not afford licenses to Oracle software. In on-line higher education, as another

example, lectures are delivered from a central location to students at the outer-most circle, instead of requiring the students to

come to universities in the inner circles. In retailing, the advent of the department store brought people to the merchandise,

housed in a major downtown location. On-line retailing brings the merchandise to the people. At the next level in the value-

adding chain, however, Internet retailers typically fulfill orders from a central location. This phenomenon invites investigation

by a doctoral student.

6

Module Note-—-What Are Business Models, and How Are They Built? 610-019

this leads to higher rather than lower prices. The type of competition that leads to lower prices is

disruption that enables decentralization.

There typically are two types of opportunities for business model innovation. The first is when

there is another, broader circle beyond the one being served at presenta population of people who

are trying to do a particular job, but have to put up with inconvenient, cobbled-together solutions

because nobody has created a product that is simple, affordable and convenient enough. These are

called new-market disruptions. There are also opportunities for low-end disruption—fundamentally

lower-cost business models within a given ring if the competitors within that ring, in the pursuit of

higher margins, have overshot what customers can use.

When a New Business Model Is Not Needed

Disruptiveness can only be expressed relative to your own business model or to that of a

competitor. This means that an innovation can be disruptive relative to competitors but not disruptive

relative to your own business model—and vice versa. For example, within the past decade Procter &

Gamble has launched a series of innovations that were consistent with its own business model but

disruptive to others. These included its Crest White Strips, which enabled consumers to whiten their

own teeth instead of requiring the service of a dental professional. And it has launched Dryel and

Swash-branded products that enable consumers to perform dry cleaning at home. These disruptive

products did not require a business model innovation at P&G, because the development, marketing

and sales processes and the profit formulae were compatible with the company’s established

businesses. If P&G were to formulate a low-cost response to the disruption of its products by store

brands, on the other hand, it would require a new business model.

Types of Business Models

There are, generically, three types of business models: solution shops, value-adding process

businesses, and facilitated network businesses. Business model innovation can occur within each of

these types, but the most profound transformation of industries occurs when a business model

innovator substitutes one type for another in an industry.

Solution Shops

Solution shops are institutions whose resources and processes are structured to diagnose and

recommend solutions for complicated problems. Consulting firms, advertising agencies, research and

development organizations certain law firms and certain highly custom manufacturing firms are

value shops. The diagnostic activities in general hospitals and some of the work done in specialist

physicians’ practices are solution shop activities, in which experts draw upon their deepest

experience and intuition to diagnose the causes of patients’ symptoms and then to recommend

solutions. The work solution shops do for each customer tends to be unique. Because diagnosing the

cause of complex problems and devising workable solutions has such high subsequent leverage,

customers typically are quite willing to pay very high prices for the services of solution shops.

Solution shops typically get paid through a fee-for-service revenue model. Occasionally a

consulting firm might agree to take some of its compensation based upon the ultimate outcomes from

its recommendations, but this rarely works because the outcomes depend upon so many other factors

than the quality of their diagnoses and recommendations.

610-019 Module Note—What Are Business Models, and How Are They Built?

Value-Adding Process Businesses

Value-adding process business models typically bring things in that are incomplete or broken,

add value to them, and then ship them out, repaired or more complete. Retailing, restaurants,

automobile manufacturing, petroleum refining, and the work of many educational institutions are

examples of value-adding process businesses. Many medical procedures that are performed after a

definitive diagnosis has been made—ranging from a nurse who uses a rules-based test to verify that a

patient has strep throat and then writes a prescription to cure it, to procedures to repair hernias and

angioplastically insert stents into occluded coronary arteries—are value-adding process activities.

Value-adding process businesses typically have a fee-for-outcome revenue model. Because the

ability to deliver the result is resident in equipment and practiced processes, prices can be quoted in

advance; and outcomes guaranteed.t Most concepts of strategy were derived from the study of value

chain businesses.5

Facilitated Networks

Facilitated network businesses are institutions in which the same people buy and sell, and deliver

and receive things from each other. Mutual insurance companies are facilitated network businesses:

Customers put premiums into a pool, and take their claims out of it. Telecommunications companies

facilitate networks in which customers send and receive calls and data amongst each other.

Facilitated networks can often be effective business models for the care of chronic illnesses.

Organizations like D-Life, which facilitates networking amongst patients with diabetes (and their

families), enable patients to teach each other how to live with their diseases. The companies that

make money in these industries are those that facilitate the effective operation of the network.

Disruption Within and Across Business Model Types

As a general rule, when an enabling technology makes it so much more affordable and simple for

anew population of people to own and use a product, the disruption occurs within a type of business

model. The Boston Consulting Group, for example, disrupted McKinsey within the solution shop

class of business models.® Within the class of value-adding process business models Toyota has