SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Growth and Priorities
SUMMARY: As companies grow larger, their priorities and capabilities shift, making it difficult to enter small emerging markets despite their resources.
KEYWORDS: business growth, organizational priorities, resource allocation, emerging markets, business model evolution
---

margins that at one point were quite attractive will seem unattractive at a later point. What companies can

prioritize changes as they migrate up-market.

The second dimension along which priorities develop and change relates to how big an

opportunity must be in order to be interesting. Because a company’s stock price represents the discounted

present value of its projected cash flows, most managers typically feel compelled not just to maintain

growth but to maintain a constant or increasing rate of growth. For a $40 million company to grow 25

percent, it needs to find $10 million in new business the next year. For a $40 billion company to grow 25

percent, it needs to find $10 billion in new business the next year. An opportunity that excites a small

organization simply isn’t large enough to be interesting to a very large one. One of the bittersweet

rewards of success is that as companies become large, they literally lose the capability to enter small

emerging markets. Their size and success put extraordinary resources at their disposal. Yet they cannot

deploy those resources against the small markets of today that will be the large markets of tomorrow,

because their evolved priorities will not permit it.

Executives and Wall Street financiers who engineer mega-mergers among already huge

companies in order to achieve cost savings need to account for the impact of these actions on what the

resultant companies can prioritize. Although the merged corporations might have more resources to throw

at innovation, their commercial organizations tend to lose their appetites for all but the biggest

blockbuster opportunities.’ Unless it keeps dividing itself into smaller units, huge size constitutes a very

real disability for a company in creating new-growth businesses.

The Migration of Capabilities

In the start-up stages of a business, much of what gets done is the result of its resources—

particularly its people. The addition or departure of a few key people can have a profound influence on its

success. Over time, however, the organization’s capabilities shift toward its processes and the business

model that defines what it can prioritize. As people work together successfully to address recurrent tasks,

processes become defined. And as the business model takes shape and it becomes clear which types of

business need to be accorded highest importance, priorities coalesce. A reason why many high-potential

firms flame out after their initial success is that the key initial resource — the founding team ~ fails to

institute the processes and priorities that can help the company follow up with a sequence of hot new

products.

Success is easier to sustain when the locus of the capability to innovate successfully migrates

from resources to processes and a business model. It actually begins to matter less which people get

assigned to which project teams. For example, Hundreds of new MBAs join the large, successful

management consulting firms every year and almost as many leave. But the firms crank out high-quality

work year after year because much of what they accomplish is rooted in their processes or training, team

composition, project management, coaching, promotions, client communication, etc. This makes their

success less dependent upon their resources (e.g., specific employees) and therefore more repeatable,

sustainable, and scalable.

As a new company’s processes and business model are coalescing, the actions and attitudes of its

founder typically have a profound impact. The founder often has strong opinions about the way

employees ought to work together to reach decisions and get things done. Founders impose their views of

what the organization’s priorities need to be. If the founder’s methods are flawed, of course, the company

will likely fail. But if those methods are useful, employees will collectively experience for themselves the

validity of the founder’s problem-solving methodologies and criteria for decision making. As they

successfully use those methods of working together to address recurrent tasks, processes become defined.

Likewise, if the company becomes financially successful by according importance to its founder’s

priorities, they will become the company’s priorities.

As successful companies mature, employees gradually come to assume that the priorities they

have learned to accept, and the ways of doing things and methods of making decisions that they have

employed so successfully, are the right way to work. Once members of the organization begin to adopt

ways of working and criteria for making decisions by assumption, rather than by conscious decision, then

those processes and priorities come to constitute the organization’s culture.’ As companies grow from a

few employees to hundreds and thousands, the challenge of getting all employees to agree on what needs

to be done and how it should be done so that the right things are done repeatedly and consistently can be

daunting for even the best managers. Culture is a powerful management tool in these situations, Culture

enables employees to act autonomously but cohesively.

Hence, the location of the most powerful factors that define the capabilities and disabilities of an

organization migrates over time-—~from resources toward visible, conscious processes and priorities, and

then toward culture. When the organization’s capabilities reside primarily in its people, change is

relatively simple to manage. But when the capabilities have come to reside J dp, its spr ‘ocesses and business

Every innovation entails creating a new resource, process or business model, or some

combination of these. Companies generally face the opportunity to create new growth businesses — and

the consequent requirement to utilize different processes and a unique business model — at a time when

the mainstream business is still very healthy. This means that executives must nof change the processes

and priorities that enable their core business to sustain its success, even as they develop the new ones.

This ambidexterity is tricky to master. To this we will now turn.’

Selecting the Right Organizational Home for Innovations

Research has identified two distinct categories of innovation — sustaining and disruptive — based

on the circumstance of that innovation.'® In sustaining situations — when the race entails making better