SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Product Architecture and Competitive Advantage
SUMMARY: Companies are more likely to succeed when they match their product architecture to their competitive circumstances, especially when product functionality and reliability are not yet good enough.
KEYWORDS: product architecture, interdependence, performance gap, competitive advantage, sustaining technologies
---

the sacrifice of performance.

Pure modularity and interdependence are the ends of a spectrum: Most products fall

somewhere between these extremes. As we shall see, companies are more likely to succeed when

they match product architecture to their competitive circumstances.

Competing with Interdependent Architecture in a Not-Good-Enough World

The left side of figure 4-1 indicates that when there is a performance gap—-when product

functionality and reliability are not yet good enough to address the needs of customers in a given

tier of the market--companies must compete by making the best possible products. In the race to

do this, firms that build their products around proprietary, interdependent architectures enjoy an

important competitive advantage against competitors whose product architectures are modular,

because the standardization inherent in modularity takes too many degrees of design freedom

away from engineers, and they cannot optimize performance.

To close the performance gap with each new product generation, competitive forces

compel engineers to fit the pieces of their systems together in ever-more-efficient ways in order

to wring the most performance possible out of the technology that is available. When firms must

compete by making the best possible products, they cannot simply assemble standardized

components, because from an engineering point of view, standardization of interfaces (meaning

fewer degrees of design freedom) would force them to back away from the frontier of what is

4-3

technologically possible. When the product is not good enough, backing off from the best that

can be done means that you’ !l fall behind.

Companies that compete with proprietary, interdependent architectures must be

integrated: They must control the design and manufacture of every critical component of the

system in order to make any piece of the system. As an illustration, during the early days of the

mainframe computer industry, when functionality and reliability were not yet good enough to

satisfy the needs of mainstream customers, you could not have existed as an independent

contract manufacturer of mainframe computers because the way the machines were designed

depended on the art that would be used in manufacturing, and vice versa. There was no clean

interface between design and manufacturing. Similarly, you could not have existed as an

independent supplier of operating systems, core memory, or logic circuitry to the mainframe

industry because these key subsystems had to be interdependently and iteratively designed, too."

New, immature technologies are often drafted into use as sustaining improvements when

functionality is not good enough. One reason why entrant companies rarely succeed in

commercializing a radically new technology is that breakthrough sustaining technologies are

rarely plug-compatible with existing systems of use.” There are just too many interdependencies

that mandate change in other elements of the system before a viable product that incorporates a

radically new technology can be sold, that the new product development cycle is tortuously long.

The use of advanced ceramics materials in engines, the deployment of high-bandwidth DSL lines

at the “last mile” of the telecommunications infrastructure, the building of superconducting

electric motors for ship propulsion, and the transition from analog to digital to all-optical

telecommunications networks could all only be accomplished by extensively integrated

companies whose scope could encompass all of the interdependencies that needed to be

managed. This is treacherous terrain for entrants.

For these reasons it wasn’t just IBM the integrated giant that dominated its industry. Ford

and General Motors, as the most integrated companies, were the dominant competitors during

the not-good-enough era of the automobile industry’s history. For the same reasons, RCA,

Xerox, AT&T, Standard Oil, and US Steel dominated their industries at similar stages. These

firms enjoyed near-monopoly power. Their market dominance was the result of the not-good-

enough circumstance, which mandated interdependent product or value chain architectures and

vertical integration.’ But their hegemony proved only temporary, because ultimately, companies

that have excelled in the race to make the best possible products find themselves making

products that are too good. When that happens, the intricate fabric of success of integrated

companies like these begins to unravel.

Overshooting and Modularization

One symptom that these changes are afoot—that the functionality and reliability of a

product have become too good—is that salespeople will return to the office cursing a customer:

“Why can’t they see that our product is better than the competition? They’re treating it like a

commodity!” This is evidence of overshooting. Such companies find themselves on the right side

of figure 4-1, where there is a performance surplus. Customers are happy to accept improved

products, but they’re unwilling to pay a premium price to get them.’

Overshooting does not mean that customers will no longer pay for improvements. It just

means that the 4pe of improvement for which they will pay a premium price will change. Once

their requirements for functionality and reliability have been met, customers begin to redefine

what is not good enough. What becomes not good enough is that customers can’t get exactly

what they want exactly when they need it, as conveniently as possible. Customers become

willing to pay premium prices for improved performance along this new trajectory of innovation

in speed, convenience, and customization. When this happens, we say that the basis of

competition in a tier of the market has changed.

The pressure of competing along this new trajectory of improvement forces a gradual

evolution in product architecture, as depicted in figure 4-l—away from the interdependent,

proprietary architectures that had the advantage in the not-good-enough era toward modular

designs in the era of performance surplus. Modular architectures help companies to compete on

the dimensions that matter in the lower-right portions of the disruption diagram. Companies can

introduce new products faster because they can upgrade individual subsystems without having to

redesign everything. Although standard interfaces invariably force compromise in system

performance, firms have the slack to trade away some performance with these customers because

functionality is more than good enough.

Modularity has a profound impact on industry structure because it enables independent,

nonintegrated organizations to sell, buy, and assemble components and subsystems.® Whereas in