SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation Adoption
SUMMARY: The text discusses how the Nash equilibrium in a value network can constrain the uptake of disruptive innovations, and why competing against nonconsumption is often easier than fighting against established incumbents.
KEYWORDS: disruptive innovation, Nash equilibrium, value network, nonconsumption
---

pursuing. The same holds true for all other companies in the system. Hence, none of the

companies is motivated to change course, and the entire system therefore is relatively

inert to change. Insofar as the companies within a value network are in a Nash

equilibrium, it creates a drag that constrains how fast customers can begin utilizing new

innovations. This application of Nash equilibriums to the uptake of innovations was

recently introduced in Bhaskar Chakravorti, The Slow Pace of Fast Change (Boston:

Harvard Business School Press, 2003). Although Chakravorti did not make the linkage

himself, his concept is a good way to visualize two things about the disruptive innovation

model. It explains why the pace of technological progress outstrips the abilities of

customers to utilize the progress. It also explains why competing against

nonconsumption, creating a completely new value network, is often in the long run an

easier way to attack an established market.

Some people have concluded on occasion that when the incumbent leader doesn’t

instantly get killed by a disruption, the forces of disruption somehow have ceased to

operate, and that the attackers are being held at bay. (See, for example, Constantinos

Charitou and Constantinos Markides, “Responses to Disruptive Strategic Innovation,”

MIT Sloan Management Review, Winter 2003, 55.) These conclusions reflect a shallow

understanding of the phenomenon, because disruption is a process and not an event. The

forces are operating all of the time in every industry. In some industries it might take

decades for the forces to work their way through an industry. In other instances it might

take a few years. But the forces—which really are the pursuit of the profit that comes

from competitive advantage—are always at work. Similarly, other writers on occasion

have noticed that the leader in an industry actually did not get killed by a disruption, but

skillfully caught the wave. They then conclude that the theory of disruption is false. This

1-27

16.

17.

20.

is erroneous logic as well. When we see an airplane fly, it does not disprove the law of

gravity. Gravity continues to exert force on the flying plane—it’s just that engineers

figured out how to deal with the force. When we see a company succeed at disruption, it

is because the management team figured out how to harness the forces to facilitate

success.

See Clayton M. Christensen and Richard S. Tedlow, “Pattems of Disruption in

Retailing,” Harvard Business Review, January—February 2000, 42-45.

Ultimately, Wal-Mart was able to create processes that turned assets faster than Kmart.

This allowed it to earn higher returns at comparable gross profit margins, giving Wal-

Mart a higher sustainable growth rate.

The reason it is so much easier for firms in the position of the full-service department

stores to flee from the disruption rather than stand to fight it is that in the near term,

inventory and asset tums are hard to change. The full-service department stores offered to

customers a much broader product selection (more SKUs per category), which inevitably

depressed inventory turns. Discounters not only offered a narrower range of products that

focused only on the fastest-turning items, but also their physical infrastructure typically

put all merchandise on the sales floor. Department stores, in contrast, often had to

maintain stockrooms to provide back-up for the limited quantities of any given item that

could be placed on their SKU-laden shelves. Hence, when disruptive discounters invaded

a tier of their merchandise mix from below, the department stores could not readily drop

margins and accelerate turns. Moving up-market where margins still were adequate was

always the more feasible and attractive alternative.

Low-end disruptions are a direct example of what economist Joseph Schumpeter termed

“creative destruction.” Low-end disruptions create a step-change cost reduction within an

industry—but it is achieved by entrant firms destroying the incumbents. New-market

disruption, in contrast, entails a period of substantial creative creation—new

consumption—before the destruction of the old occurs

For a deeper exploration of the macroeconomic impact of disruption, see Clayton M.

Christensen, Stuart L. Hart, and Thomas Craig, “The Great Disruption,” Foreign Affairs

80, no.2, March—April 2001, 80-95; and Stuart L. Hart and Clayton M. Christensen, “The

Great Leap: Driving Innovation from the Base of the Pyramid,” MIT Sloan Management

Review, Fall 2002, 51-56. The Foreign Affairs paper asserts that disruption was the

fundamental engine of Japan’s economic miracle of the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s. Like

other companies, these disruptors—Sony, Toyota, Nippon Steel, Canon, Seiko, Honda,

and others—have soared to the high end, now producing some of the world’s highest-

quality products in their respective markets. Like the American and European companies

that they disrupted, Japan’s giants are now stuck at the high end of their markets, where

there is no growth. The reason America’s economy did not stagnate for an extended

period after its leading companies got pinned to the high end was that people could leave

those companies, pick up venture capital on the way down, and start new waves of

disruptive growth. Japan’s economy, in contrast, lacks the labor market mobility and the

venture capital infrastructure to enable this. Hence, Japan played the disruptive game

once and profited handsomely. But it is stuck. There truly seem to be microeconomic

roots to the country’s macroeconomic malaise. The S/oan paper builds upon the Foreign

1-28

21.

22.

23.

Affairs piece, asserting that today’s developing nations are an ideal initial market for

many disruptive innovations; and that disruption is a viable economic development

policy.

Our choice of wording in this paragraph is important. When customers cannot

differentiate products from each other on any dimension that they can value, then price is

often the customer’s basis of choice. We would not say, however, that when a consumer

buys the lowest-priced alternative, the axis of competition is cost based. The right

question to ask is whether customers will be willing to pay higher prices for further

improvements in functionality, reliability, or convenience. As long as customers reward

improvements with commensurately higher prices, we take it as evidence that the pace of