SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Model Disruption
SUMMARY: The text discusses how disruptive innovations can shift industries across business model categories, such as from solution shops to value-adding processes or facilitated networks.
KEYWORDS: disruptive innovation, business model transformation, industry disruption
---

anew population of people to own and use a product, the disruption occurs within a type of business

model. The Boston Consulting Group, for example, disrupted McKinsey within the solution shop

class of business models.® Within the class of value-adding process business models Toyota has

disrupted General Motors, and Medco is disrupting retail pharmacies. Traditional wire-line

telephone companies, which are network facilitators, are being disrupted by other network

facilitators—the wireless carriers, which in turn are being disrupted by Skype, whose network uses

voice over Internet protocol (VoIP).

When the enabling technology makes it affordable and simple for a new population of people to

produce or provide a product or service, then the disruption shifts the industry across the category

boundary, to a different type of business model. For example, Geek Squad is changing the IT services

4 Christensen, Grossman and Hwang note in The Innovator’s Prescription (New York: McGraw Hill, 2009) that a core reason why

the care provided in hospitals is so costly is that they are conflations of solution shop and value-adding process activities,

which are fundamentally incompatible.

5 See, for example, Michael Porter (1985), Competitive Advantage. New York: the Free Press.

6 The reason why BCG was disruptive relative to McKinsey was that the vertical axis of the disruption diagram in the

consulting business is the size of the client project. Moving “up-market” in consulting entails migrating towards larger and

larger projects. The strategy projects that BCG originally engaged in where such small-ticket projects relative to the larger

organizational effectiveness, organizational design, and post-merger integration projects that constituted McKinsey’s bread

and butter, that McKinsey’s partners simply werent financially motivated to pursue the strategy consulting business.

8

Module Note—What Are Business Models, and How Are They Built? 610-019

business from a solution shop business model to a value-adding process model. E-Bay is disrupting

certain retail and distribution channels that historically were configured as value-adding process

businesses, transforming those retailing sectors into facilitated network businesses. Software

platforms that enable students to create tutorial tools to teach each other (peer-to-peer teaching) are

disruptively shifting the instructional materials industry from a value-adding process business

(textbooks and on-line courses) into a facilitated network business.” YouTube is transforming video

entertainment from a value-adding process business to a facilitated network business; and so on.

The Relationship between Business Models, Integration and Competition

Integration is defined by the way that processes link resources together within a business model.

Centering the value proposition of a business model on a job-to-be-done typically makes clear the

type and extent of integration that is required to do the job well. Because most organizations are

structured in ways that mirror product or customer categories, they typically find it difficult to

respond to a competitor whose mode of integration is defined by a job to be done. For example,

FedEx organized itself around a job-to-be-done, which is, “I need to get this from here to there with

minimal effort and perfect certainty, as quickly as possible.” Doing this job well entailed integrating

ground transportation, billing systems, and aircraft whose routes were knit together in a Memphis

trans-shipment hub. For nearly a decade the established freight companies such as Emery and United

Parcel Service were left flat-footed as FedEx grew its business—-because they were organized around

product and service categories. In a similar way, Ikea has been rolling out across North America for

over 30 years in a deliberate, open way—and yet nobody has copied Ikea. A plausible explanation is

that other furniture stores are organized around product categories like “low-priced furniture,”

“colonial furniture,” and so on—whereas Ikea is integrated uniquely to do a specific job: “I need to

furnish this apartment or room today. Ikea’s resources and processes are integrated together in very

unique ways that make it as easy as possible to get this job done.

When firms integrate around customer categories rather than jobs to be done, expensive failure

often is the result. A long series of financial services companies, for example—ranging from Sears,

Roebuck in the 1970s to American Express in the 1990s and to Citigroup most recently—conceived

that because their customers needed checking accounts, life insurance, home mortgages, credit cards,

stock brokerage and investment advisory services, they would become “financial supermarkets”——a

one-stop shopping destination for all financial services that their customers would use. It has never

worked. The reason is that the job for which life insurance needs to be “hired” arises at a different

point in time and space than the job for which checking accounts need to be hired; and so on. We

would term such integration destructive integration because the overhead and inefficiency resulting

from attempts to force-fit or cross-sell multiple services that are unrelated to jobs that customers are

trying to do when they are trying to do them, typically destroys much value.

There are two types of productive integration. The first arises when two different products compete

to be hired to do the same job. When this occurs we would expect the two products ultimately to be

combined when it is technologically possible. For instance, we wrote in 2000 that because the mobile

telephone and personal digital assistants such as the RIM Blackberry are hired to do the same job

(which is “Help me to be productive in this snippet of idle time) the two products would become

integrated into a single product. This has occurred.

7 See Christensen, Horn and Johnson, Disrupting Class, New York: McGraw Hill, 2008, for a more complete explanation of this

phenomenon.

610-019 Module Note—What Are Business Models, and How Are They Built?

The second type of productive integration occurs when the need to do two different jobs arises at

the same point in time and space in the customer's life. In such instances we would expect the

services or products that might be hired to do these jobs to be integrated. By illustration, stand-alone

gasoline stations and convenience food stores are giving way to integrated facilities that sell both.