SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation in the Computer Industry
SUMMARY: The text discusses how categorization of industries based on industry-defined lines can be irrelevant to profitability and growth, leading to misunderstandings in the investment management industry.
KEYWORDS: disruptive innovation, industry categorization, investment management, computer industry
---

summarized in “Deconstructing the Computer Industry,” Business Week, 23 November

1992, 90-96. As we note in the appendix to this chapter, we would expect that much of

5-17

ll,

12.

13.

Dell’s profit comes from its direct-to-customer retailing operations, not from product

assembly.

With just a few seconds’ reflection, it is easy to see that the investment management

industry suffers from the problem of categorization along industry-defined lines that are

irrelevant to profitability and growth. Hence, they create investment funds for

“technology companies” and other funds for “health care companies.” Within those

portfolios are disruptors and disruptees, companies on the verge of commoditization and

those on the verge of de-commoditization, and so on. Michael Mauboussin, chief

investment strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston, recently wrote an article on this topic.

It builds on the model of theory building that we have summarized in the introduction of

this book, and its application to the world of investing is very insightful. See Michael

Mauboussin, “No Context: The Importance of Circumstance-Based Categorization,” The

Consiliant Observer, New York: Credit Suisse First Boston, 14 January 2003.

Those of our readers who are familiar with the disk drive industry might see a

contradiction between our statement that much of the money in the industry was earned

in head and disk manufacturing and the fact that the leading head and disk makers, such

as Read-Rite and Komag, have not prospered. They have not prospered because most of

the leading disk drive makers—particularly Seagate—integrated into their own head and

disk making so that they could capture the profit instead of the independent suppliers.

IBM did have profitable volume in 3.5-inch drives, but it was at the highest-capacity tiers

of that market, where capacity was not good enough and the product designs therefore

had to be interdependent.

A more complete account of these developments has been published in Clayton M.

Christensen, Matt Verlinden, and George Westerman, “Disruption, Disintegration and the

Dissipation of Differentiability,” Industrial and Corporate Change 11, no. 5 (2002): 955—

993. The first Harvard Business School working papers that summarized this analysis

were written and broadly circulated in 1998 and 1999.

We have deliberately used present- and future-tense verbs in this paragraph. The reason is

that at the time this account was first written and submitted to publishers, these

statements were predictions. Subsequently, the gross margins in IBM’s 2.5-inch disk

drive business deteriorated significantly, as this model predicted they would. However,

IBM chose to sell off its entire disk drive business to Hitachi, giving to some other

company the opportunity to sell the profitable, performance-enabling components for this

class of disk drives.

We have written elsewhere that the Harvard Business School has an extraordinary

opportunity to execute exactly this strategy in management education, if it will only seize

it. Harvard writes and publishes the vast majority of the case studies and many of the

articles that business school professors have used as components in courses whose

architecture is of interdependent design. As on-the-job management training and

corporate universities (which are nonintegrated assemblers of modular courses) disrupt

traditional M.B.A. programs, Harvard has a great opportunity to flip its business model

5-18

15.

16.

through its publishing arm and sell not just case studies and articles as bare-bones

components but also value-added subsystems as modules. These should be designed to

make it simple for management trainers in the corporate setting to custom-assemble great

material, deliver it exactly when it is needed, and teach it in a compelling way. (See

Clayton M. Christensen, Michael Raynor, and Matthew Verlinden, “Skate to Where the

Money Will Be,” Harvard Business Review, November 2001.)

This would suggest, for example, that Hewlett-Packard’s branding power would be

strong mapping upward to not-yet-satisfied customers from the trajectory of improvement

on which its products are positioned. And it suggests that the HP brand would be much

weaker, compared with the brands of Intel and Microsoft, mapping downward from that

same point to more-than-satisfied customers.

We are indebted to one of Professor Christensen’s Harvard M.B.A. students, Aland O° bee

Stevens, for many of these insights, which she developed in a research paper entitled “A

House of Brands or a Branded House?” Stevens noted that branding power is gradually(\4)

migrating away from the products to the channels in a variety of retailing categories.

Manufacturers of branded food and personal care products such as Unilever and Procter

& Gamble, for example, fight this battle of the brands with their channels every day,

because many of their products are more than good enough. In Great Britain, disruptive

channel brands such as Tesco and Sainsbury’s have decisively won this battle after first

starting at the lower price points in each category and then moving up. In the United

States, branded products have clung more tenaciously to shelf space, but often at the cost

of exorbitant slotting fees. The migration of brands in good-enough categories is well

under way in channels such as Home Depot and Staples. Where the products’

functionality and reliability have become more than good enough and it is the simplicity

and convenience of purchase and use that is not good enough, then the power to brand

has begun migrating to the channel whose business model is delivering on this as-yet-

unsatisfied dimension.

Procter & Gamble appears to be following a sensible strategy by launching a

series of new-market disruptions that simultaneously provide needed fuel for its

channels’ efforts to move up-market, and preserve P&G’s power to keep the premium

brand on the product. Its Dryel brand do-it-yourself home dry cleaning system, for

example, is a new-market disruption because it enables individuals to do for themselves

something that, historically, only a more expensive professional could do. Do-it-yourself

dry cleaning is not yet good enough, so the power to build a profitable brand is likely to

reside in the product for some time. What is more, just as Sony’s solid-state electronics

products enabled discount merchandisers to compete against appliance stores, so P&G’s