SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Mobile Telephony Standards
SUMMARY: The text discusses the development of mobile telephony standards in Europe and North America, highlighting the differences in adoption rates and factors contributing to them.
KEYWORDS: mobile telephony, standards, Europe, North America, adoption rates
---

one of the key players in the development of i-mode at DoCoMo.

Some readers who are familiar with the different experiences of the European and

American mobile telephony industries may take issue with this paragraph. Very early on,

4-16

the Europeans coalesced around a pre-negotiated standard called GSM, which enabled

mobile phone users to use their phones in any country. Mobile phone usage took off

more rapidly and achieved higher penetration rates than in America, where several

competing proprietary standards were battling it out. Many analysts have drawn the

general conclusion from the Europeans’ strategy of coalescing around a negotiated

standard that it is always advisable to avoid the wasteful duplication of competing

standards. We believe that the benefits of a single standard have been largely

exaggerated, and that other important differences between the US and Europe that

contributed significantly to the differential adoption rates have not been given their due.

First, the benefits of a single standard appear to have manifested themselves large in

terms of supply-side rather than demand-side benefits. That is, by stipulating a single

standard, European manufacturers of network equipment and handsets were able to

achieve greater scale economies than companies manufacturing for the North American

markets. This might well have manifested itself in the form of lower prices to

consumers, however, the relevant comparison is not the cost of mobile telephony in the

Europe versus North America; these services were not competing with each other. The

relevant comparison is with wireline telephony in each respective market. And here it is

worth noting that wireline local and long distance telephony services are much more

expensive in Europe than in North America, and as a result, wireless telephony was a

much more attractive substitute for wireline in Europe than in North America. The

putative demand-side benefit of trans-national usage has not, to our knowledge, been

demonstrated in the usage patterns of European consumers. Consequently, we’d be

willing to suggest that a far more powerful cause of the relative success of mobile

telephony in Europe was not that schoolgirls from Sweden could use their handset when

on holiday in Spain, but rather the relative improvement in ease of use and cost provided

by mobile telephony versus the wireline alternative.

Second, and perhaps even more importantly, European regulation mandated that “calling

party pays” with respect to mobile phone usage, whereas North American regulators

mandated that “mobile party pays.” In other words, in Europe, if you call someone’s

mobile phone number, you pay the cost of the call; to the recipient, it’s free. In North

America, if someone calls you on your mobile, it’s on your dime. As a result, Europeans

were far freer in giving out their mobile phone numbers, hence increasing the likelihood

of usage. For more on this topic, see Strategis Group: Calling Party Pays Case Study

Analysis; ITU-BDT Telecommunication Regulatory Database; and ITU website

http://www. itu.int/ITU-D/ict/statistics.

Teasing out the effects of each of these contributors (the GSM standard, lower relative

price versus wireline, and calling party pays regulation), as well as others that might be

adduced is not a trivial task. But we would suggest that the impact of the single standard

is far less than typically implied, and certainly is not the principle factor in explaining

higher mobile phone penetration rates in Europe versus North America.

4-17

Assessing Your Organization’s Capabilities:

Resources, Processes & Priorities (Abridged)

Clayton M. Christensen & Stephen P. Kaufinan

Harvard Business School

Many innovations fail not because of some fatal technological flaw or because the market isn’t

ready. They fail because responsibility to build these businesses is,given to organizational units, that aren’t..

capable: of.succeeding, Corporate executives often make this mistake because the very capabilities that

propel an organization to succeed in sustaining circumstances will systematically bungle the best ideas for

disruptive growth. An organization’s capabilities become its disabilities when disruption is afoot.' This

note summarizes a model that can help executives understand precisely what a business unit is and is not

capable of doing — and to diagnose precisely where those capabilities and disabilities reside within the

organization.

Resources, Processes, and Priorities

What does this awfully elastic term capability really mean? We’ve found it helpful to unpack the

concept of capabilities into three groups of factors that define what an organization can and cannot

accomplish: its resources, its processes, and the priorities embedded in its business model — a construct

we refer to as the RPP framework.” Although each of these terms requires careful definition and analysis,

taken together we’ve found that they provide a powerful way to assess an organization’s capabilities and

disabilities in ways that can make innovations of every sort much more likely to succeed.

Resources

Resources are the most tangible of the three sets of factors in the RPP framework. Resources

include people, equipment, technology, product designs, brands, information, cash, and relationships with

suppliers, distributors, and customers. Resources are ¢hings that can be hired and fired, bought and sold,

depreciated or built. Most resources are visible and often are measurable, so managers can know what

they have. Resources tend to be flexible as well: most can be transported across organizational

boundaries. An engineer who is a valuable contributor in a large firm can quickly become a valuable

contributor in a start-up. Technology developed for telecommunications can be valuable in health care.

Cash is a very flexible resource; and so on.

Processes

Organizations create value as they transform inputs of resources into products and services of

greater worth. The patterns of interaction, coordination, communication, and decision making through

which they accomplish these transformations are processes.’ Processes include the ways that products are

developed and made and the methods by which procurement, market research, budgeting, employee

development, and resource allocation are accomplished.

Processes differ not only in their purpose, but also in their visibility. Some processes are

“formal,” in the sense that they are explicitly defined, documented and followed. Others are “informal,”

habitual routines or ways of working that have evolved over time, which people adopt simply because