SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation and Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how companies should adapt to changing competitive landscapes and capture attractive profits by identifying and exploiting not-good-enough interfaces in the value chain.
KEYWORDS: disruptive innovation, value chain, commoditization, differentiation, new growth opportunities
---

abreast of the changing basis of competition. But they have spun off the pieces of value-added

activity where the money will be, in order to stay where the money has been."

oR oe ok He oe ok

These findings have pervasive implications for managers seeking to build

successful new-growth businesses and for those seeking to keep current

businesses robust. The power to capture attractive profits will shift to those

activities in the value chain where the immediate customer is not yet satisfied with

the performance of available products. It is in these stages that complex,

interdependent integration occurs—activities that create steeper scale economics

and enable greater differentiability. Attractive returns shift away from activities

where the immediate customer is more than satisfied, because it is there that

standard, modular integration occurs. We hope that in describing this process in

these terms, we might help managers to predict more accurately where new

opportunities for profitable growth through proprietary products will emerge.

These transitions begin on the trajectories of improvement where disruptors are

at work, and proceed up-market tier by tier. This process creates opportunities for

5-13

new companies that are integrated across these not-good-enough interfaces to

thrive, and to grow by “eating their way up” from the back end of an end-use

system. Managers of industry-leading businesses need to watch vigilantly in the

right places to spot these trends as they begin, because the processes of

commoditization and de-commoditization both begin at the periphery, not the

core.

Appendix: The Law of Conservation of Attractive Profits

Having described these cycles of commoditization and de-commoditization in terms of

products, we can now make a more general statement concerning the existence of a general

phenomenon that we call the law of conservation of attractive profits. Our friend Chris Rowen,

CEO of Tensilica, pointed out to us the existence of this law, whose appellation was inspired by

the laws of conservation of energy and matter that we so fondly remember studying in physics

class. Formally, the law of conservation of attractive profits states that in the value chain there is

a requisite juxtaposition of modular and interdependent architectures, and of reciprocal processes

of commoditization and de-commoditization, that exists in order to optimize the performance of

what is not good enough. The law states that when modularity and commoditization cause

attractive profits to disappear at one stage in the value chain, the opportunity to earn attractive

profits with proprietary products will usually emerge at an adjacent stage.”°

We’ll first illustrate how this law operates by examining handheld devices such as the

RIM BlackBerry and the Palm Pilot, which constitute the latest wave of disruption in the

computing industry. The functionality of these products is not yet adequate, and as a

consequence their architectures are interdependent. This is especially true for the BlackBerry,

because its “always on” capability mandates extraordinarily efficient use of power. Because of

this, the BlackBerry engineers cannot incorporate a one-size-fits-all Intel microprocessor into

their device. It has far more capability than is needed. Rather, they need a modular

microprocessor design—a system-on-a-chip that is custom-configured for the BlackBerry—so

that they do not have to waste space, power, or cost on functionality that is not needed.

The microprocessor must be modular and conformable in order to permit engineers to

optimize the performance of what is not good enough, which is the device itself. Note that this is

the opposite situation from that of a desktop computer, where it is the microprocessor that is not

good enough. The architecture of the computer must therefore be modular and conformable in

order to allow engineers to optimize the performance of the microprocessor. Thus, one side or

the other must be modular and conformable to allow for optimization of what is not good enough

through an interdependent architecture.

In similar ways, application software programs that are written to run on Microsoft’s

Windows operating systems need to be conformed to Windows’ external interface; the Linux

operating system, on the other hand, is modular and conformable to optimize the performance of

software that runs on it.

5-14

We have found this “law” to be a useful way to visualize where the money will migrate

in the value chain in a number of industries. It is explored in greater depth in a forthcoming book

by Clayton Christensen, Scott Anthony, and Erik Roth, Seeing What's Next (Boston: Harvard

Business School Press, 2004).

This law also has helped us understand the juxtaposition of modular products with

interdependent services, because services provided with the products can go through similar

cycles of commoditization and de-commoditization, with consequent implications for where

attractive profitability will migrate.

We noted previously that when the functionality and reliability of a product become more

than good enough, the basis of competition changes. What becomes not good enough are speed

to market and the rapid and responsive ability to configure products to the specific needs of

customers in ever-more-targeted market segments. The customer interface is the place in the

value chain where the ability to excel on this new dimension of competition is determined.

Hence, companies that are integrated in a proprietary way across the interface to the customer

can compete on these not-good-enough dimensions more effectively (and be rewarded with

better margins) than can those firms that interface with their customers only in an arm’s-length,

“modular” manner. Companies that integrate across the retail interface to the customer, in this

circumstance, can also earn above-average profits.

We would therefore not say that Dell Computer is a nonintegrated company, for example.

Rather, Dell is integrated across the not-good-enough interface with the customer. The company

is not integrated across the more-than-good-enough modular interfaces among the components

within its computers. Figure 5-2 summarizes in a simplified way how the profitable points of

proprietary integration have migrated in the personal computer industry.

On the left side of the diagram, which represents the earliest years of the desktop

computer industry when product functionality was extremely limited, Apple Computer, with its