SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Innovation and Competitive Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how customer willingness to pay higher prices for improvements in product functionality, reliability, or convenience indicates the pace of performance improvement has not yet exceeded customer needs.
KEYWORDS: product strategy, disruptive innovation, customer value, competitive dynamics
---

question to ask is whether customers will be willing to pay higher prices for further

improvements in functionality, reliability, or convenience. As long as customers reward

improvements with commensurately higher prices, we take it as evidence that the pace of

performance improvement has not yet overshot what customers can use. When the

marginal utility that customers receive from additional improvements on any of these

dimensions approaches zero, then cost is truly the basis of competition.

We emphasize the term product strategy in this sentence because there certainly seems to

be scope for two other low-end disruptive plays in this market. One would be a private-

label strategy to disrupt the Hewlett-Packard brand. The other would be a low-cost

distribution strategy through an online retailer such as Dell Computer.

Matsushita, in fact, attempted entry with a sustaining strategy of exactly this sort in the

1990s. Despite its strong Panasonic brand and its world-class capabilities in assembling

electromechanical products, the company has been bloodied and has captured minima]

market share.

1-29

e300 es HARVARD BUSINESS | SCHOOL

9-610-019

REV: AUGUST 31, 2009

MODULE NOTE

What Are Business Models, and How Are

They Built?

Business model innovations have reshaped entire industries and redistributed billions of dollars

of value.! Business models that did not exist prior to 1960 now account for over 90% of the total

market capitalization of the retailing industry; and business models that did not exist prior to 1980

now account for literally 100% of the computer industry. Over the most recent 10-year period, 13 of

the 26 entrants into the Fortune 500 owe their success to business model innovations that either

transformed existing industries or created new ones.

Despite the growth that they can create, established corporations rarely create innovative business

models: Most are forged by start-ups. Why do they struggle to capture the new growth that business

model innovation can bring? Part of the problem is that there is little codified understanding of the

elements of business models or the process of building them. Most companies therefore don’t fully

understand the sources of the strengths and limitations of their existing business models; the premises

behind their development; and the interdependencies amongst the elements of their models. This

leaves them unable to know when they can leverage their core business, and when success requires a

new business model. Indeed, the consequent clumsiness in creating new business models has led to

the widespread belief that companies can only successful innovate “close to the core.”

What is a Business Model?

As suggested in Figure A, a business model consists of four interlocking, interdependent elements

that, taken together, create and deliver value. It starts with a value proposition—a product or service

that helps customers do more effectively, conveniently and affordably a job that they've been trying to

do.? By job we mean a fundamental problem in the customer's situation that needs a solution. Every job

has functional, emotional, and social dimensions of the result that is needed—which define the

experiences in purchase and use that need to be provided to get the job done perfectly. We’ve chosen

the words in this paragraph carefully. If a value proposition helps customers do something that they’re

not trying to do—even if they sould be trying to do it—there is not a viable basis for a business model.

1 This note draws extensively upon Mark W. Johnson, Clayton M. Christensen, and Henning Kagermann, “Reinventing Your

Business Model,” Harvard Business Review, (December 2008).

? We have written elsewhere about the importance of understanding the job that customers are trying to do. See, for example,

Christensen el.al., “Finding the Right Job for your Product,” MIT Sloan Management Review (Spring 2007), and Christensen et.al.,

“Marketing Malpractice,” Harvard Business Review, (December 2005).

This module note was prepared by Professor Clayton M. Christensen and Mark W. Johnson, Chairman, Innosight, to aid students in the Elective

Curriculum course, “Building and Sustaining a Successful Enterprise.”

Copyright © 2009 President and Fellows of Harvard College. To order copies or request permission to reproduce materials, call 1-800-545-7685,

write Harvard Business School Publishing, Boston, MA 02163, or go to www.hbsp.harvard.edu/educators. This publication may not be digitized,

photocopied, or otherwise reproduced, posted, or transmitted, without the permission of Harvard Business School.

610-019 Module Note—What Are Business Models, and How Are They Built?

Resources

The value proposition defines the resources the business must put in place in order to deliver the

value proposition. In general, resources are things such as people, technology, products, suppliers,

distribution channels, equipment, facilities, brands and cash. Resources typically can be hired and

fired, bought and sold, built or destroyed.

Processes

As a company uses its resources to deliver the value proposition, processes coalesce. Some

processes are visible, codified and consciously monitored and managed. Other processes are habitual

ways of working together to get things done that have evolved over time in response to recurrent

tasks. When processes have been used successfully and repeatedly, they become followed by

assumption, rather than explicit decision—~“That’s just the way we do things around here”—and

become part of the culture of the organization.

Figure A What Is a Business Model?

THE VALUE PROPOSITION: RESOURCES:

A product that helps

customers do more effectively,

conveniently & affordably a

job they’ve been trying to do

People, technology, products,

——ue | facilities, equipment, brands,

and cash that are required to

deliver this value proposition

to the targeted customers

es

PROCESSES:

PROFIT FORMULA: Ways of working together to

Assets & fixed cost structure, | «...—. | address recurrent tasks in a

and the margins & velocity consistent way: training,

required to cover them development, manufacturing,

budgeting, planning, etc.

Source: Casewriters.

Profit formula The profit formula defines the gross and net margins the organization must

achieve, given the structure and magnitude of the fixed and variable costs inherent in its resources. It

specifies how big the organization must become in order to break even, and the pattern of profit

improvement, if any, that comes from increasing scale. And the profit formula defines how fast the