SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how companies should adapt their product architectures and business models as the basis of competition shifts from performance to modularity.
KEYWORDS: modular architecture, proprietary architecture, disruptive innovation, industry dynamics
---

important competitive disadvantage until the basis of competition shifts and modularity becomes

the predominant architectural form. This was the experience of IBM and its clones in the

personal computer industry. The superior performance of Apple’s computers did not preclude

IBM from succeeding. IBM just had to fight its performance disadvantage because it opted

prematurely for a modular architecture.

What happens to the initial leaders when they overshoot, after having jumped ahead of

the pack with performance and reliability advantages that were grounded in proprietary

architecture? The answer is that they need to modularize and open up their architectures and

begin aggressively to sell their subsystems as modules to other companies whose low-cost

assembly capability can help grow the market. Had good theory been available to provide

guidance, for example, there is no reason why the executives of Apple Computer could not have

modularized their design and have begun selling their operating system with its interdependent

applications to other computer assemblers, preempting Microsoft’s development of Windows.

Nokia appears today to be facing the same decision. We sense that adding even more features

and functions to standard wireless handsets is overshooting what its less-demanding customers

can utilize; and a dis-integrated handset industry that utilizes Symbian’s operating system is

rapidly gaining traction.

The next chapter will show that a company can begin with a proprietary architecture

when disruptive circumstances mandate it, and then, when the basis of competition changes,

open its architecture to become a supplier of key subsystems to low-cost assemblers. If it does

this, it can avoid the traps of becoming a niche player on the one hand and the supplier of an

undifferentiated commodity on the other. The company can become capitalism’s equivalent of

Wayne Gretzky, the hockey great. Gretzky had an instinct not to skate to where the puck

presently was on the ice, but instead to skate to where the puck was going to be. Chapter 5 can

help managers steer their companies not to the profitable businesses of the past, but to where the

money will be.

WR GR ok ok oR

There are few decisions in building and sustaining a new-growth business that

scream more loudly for sound, circumstance-based theory than those addressed

in this chapter. When the functionality and reliability of a product are not good

enough to meet customers’ needs, then the companies that will enjoy significant

competitive advantage are those whose product architectures are proprietary and

that are integrated across the performance-limiting interfaces in the value chain.

When functionality and reliability become more than adequate, so that speed and

responsiveness are the dimensions of competition that are not now good enough,

then the opposite is true. A population of nonintegrated, specialized companies

whose rules of interaction are defined by modular architectures and industry

standards holds the upper hand.

At the beginning of a wave of new-market disruption, the companies that initially

will be the most successful will be integrated firms whose architectures are

proprietary because the product isn’t yet good enough. Afier a few years of

success in performance improvement, those disruptive pioneers themselves

become susceptible to hybrid (primarily low-end) disruption by a population of

nonintegrated companies whose focus gives them lower overhead costs.

For a company that serves customers in multiple tiers of the market, managing

the transition is tricky, because the strategy and business model that are required

to successfully reach unsatisfied customers in higher tiers are very different from

those that are necessary to compete with speed, flexibility, and low cost in lower

tiers of the market. Pursuing both ends at once and in the right way often requires

multiple business units—a topic that we address next.

1. We are indebted to a host of thoughtful researchers who have framed the existence and

the role of core and competence in making these decisions. These include C. K. Prahalad

and Gary Hamel, “The Core Competence of the Corporation,” Harvard Business Review,

May-June 1990, 79-91; and Geoffrey Moore, Living on the Fault Line (New York:

HarperBusiness, 2002). It is worth noting that “core competence,” as the term was

originally coined by C. K. Prahalad and Gary Hamel in their seminal 1990 article (op.

cit.), was actually an apology for the diversified firm. They were developing a view of

diversification based on the exploitation of established capabilities, broadly defined. We

interpret their work as consistent with a well-respected and very useful stream of research

and theoretical development that goes all the way back to Edith Penrose’s 1959 book The

4-12

Theory of the Growth of the Firm (New York: Wiley). This line of thinking is very

powerful and useful. As it is used now, however, the term “core competence” has become

synonymous with “focus”; that is, firms that seek to exploit their core competence do not

diversify—if anything, they focus their business on those activities that they do

particularly well. It is this “meaning in use” that we feel is misguided.

IBM arguably had much deeper technological capability in integrated circuit and

operating system design and manufacturing than did Intel or Microsoft at the time IBM

put these companies into business. It probably is more correct, therefore, to say that this

decision was based more on what was core than what was competence, The sense that

IBM needed to outsource was based on the correct perception of the new venture’s

managers that they needed a far lower overhead cost structure to become acceptably

profitable to the corporation and needed to be much faster in new-product development

than the company’s established internal development processes, which had been honed in

a world of complicated interdependent products with longer development cycles, could

handle.

In the past decade there has been a flowering of important studies on these concepts, We

have found the following ones to be particularly helpful: Rebecca Henderson and Kim B.

Clark, “Architectural Innovation: The Reconfiguration of Existing Product Technologies

and the Failure of Established Firms,” Administrative Science Quarterly 35 (1990): 9-30;

K. Monteverde, “Technical Dialog as an Incentive for Vertical Integration in the