SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Strategic Business Decisions
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges in deciding what to in-source and what to outsource, and how the core competence theory can lead to mistakes.
KEYWORDS: in-sourcing, outsourcing, core competence, strategic decisions, new business ventures
---

successful as possible as fast as possible, and which should it outsource to a

supplier or a partner? Will success be best built around a proprietary product

architecture, or should the venture embrace modular, open industry standards?

What causes the evolution from closed and proprietary product architectures to

open ones? Might companies need to adopt proprietary solutions again, once

open standards have emerged?

Decisions about what to in-source and what to procure from suppliers and partners have a

powerful impact on a new-growth venture’s chances for success. A widely used theory to guide

this decision is built on categories of core and competence. If something fits your core

competence, you should do it inside. If it’s not your core competence and another firm can do it

better, the theory goes, you should rely on them to provide it.'

Right? Well, sometimes. The problem with the core-competence/not-your-core-

competence categorization is that what might seem to be a non-core activity today might become

an absolutely critical competence to have mastered in a proprietary way in the future, and vice

versa.

Consider, for example, IBM’s decision to outsource the microprocessor for its PC

business to Intel, and its operating system to Microsoft. IBM made these decisions in the early

1980s in order to focus on what it did best—-designing, assembling, and marketing computer

systems. Given its history, these choices made perfect sense. Component suppliers to IBM

historically had lived a miserable, profit-free existence, and the business press widely praised

IBM’s decision to outsource these components of its PC. It dramatically reduced the cost and

time required for development and launch. And yet in the process of outsourcing what was not

its core or its competence, IBM put into business the two companies that subsequently captured

most of the profit in the industry.

How could IBM have known in advance that such a sensible decision would prove so

costly? More broadly, how can any executive who is launching a new-growth business, as IBM

was doing with its PC division in the early 1980s, know which value-added activities are those in

which future competence needs to be mastered and kept inside?”

Because evidence from the past can be such a misleading guide to the future, the only

way to see accurately what the future will bring is to use theory. In this case, we need a

circumstance-based theory to describe the mechanism by which activities become core or

peripheral. Describing this mechanism and showing how managers can use the theory is the

purpose of chapters 4 and 5.

4-1

Integrate or Outsource?

IBM and others have demonstrated—inadvertently, of course—that the core/noncore

categorization can lead to serious and even fatal mistakes. Instead of asking what their company

does best today, managers should ask, “What do we need to master today, and what will we need

to master in the future, in order to excel on the trajectory of improvement that customers will

define as important?”

The answer begins with the job-to-be-done approach: Customers will not buy your

product unless it solves an important problem for them. But what constitutes a “solution” differs

across the two circumstances in figure 4-1: whether products are not good enough or are more

than good enough. The advantage, we have found, goes to integration when products are not

good enough, and to outsourcing—or specialization and dis-integration—when products are

more than good enough.

Figure 4.1:

Circumstances in Which Interdependent vs. Modular Architectures have the Advantage

Performance

Surplus

Beat

competitors

with

functionality

& reliability no .

Performance

Performance

Gap ae?” Beat competitors

with speed, responsiveness

and convenience

Cl Difference in functionality that can be achieved

with an optimized, interdependent architecture,

vs. modular architecture

Time

To explain, we need to explore the engineering concepts of interdependence and

modularity and their importance in shaping a product’s design. We will then return to figure 4-1

to see these concepts at work in the disruption diagram.

Product Architecture and Interfaces

A product’s architecture determines its constituent components and subsystems and

defines how they must interact—fit and work together—in order to achieve the targeted

functionality. The place where any two components fit together is called an interface. Interfaces

4-2

exist within a product, as well as between stages in the value-added chain. For example, there is

an interface between design and manufacturing, and another between manufacturing and

distribution.

An architecture is interdependent at an interface if one part cannot be created

independently of the other part—if the way one is designed and made depends on the way the

other is being designed and made. When there is an interface across which there are

unpredictable interdependencies, then the same organization must simultaneously develop both

of the components if it hopes to develop either component.

Interdependent architectures optimize performance, in terms of functionality and

reliability. By definition, these architectures are proprietary because each company will develop

its own interdependent design to optimize performance in a different way. When we use the term

interdependent architecture in this chapter, readers can substitute as synonyms optimized and

proprietary architecture.

In contrast, a modular interface is a clean one, in which there are no unpredictable

interdependencies across components or stages of the value chain. Modular components fit and

work together in well-understood and highly defined ways. A modular architecture specifies the

fit and function of all elements so completely that it doesn’t matter who makes the components

or subsystems, as long as they meet the specifications. Modular components can be developed in

independent work groups or by different companies working at arm’s length.

Modular architectures optimize flexibility, but because they require tight specification,

they give engineers fewer degrees of freedom in design. As a result, modular flexibility comes at

the sacrifice of performance.

Pure modularity and interdependence are the ends of a spectrum: Most products fall

somewhere between these extremes. As we shall see, companies are more likely to succeed when

they match product architecture to their competitive circumstances.

Competing with Interdependent Architecture in a Not-Good-Enough World