SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Organizational Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the challenges of managing sustaining and disruptive innovations within established organizations.
KEYWORDS: sustaining innovation, disruptive innovation, organizational capabilities, business model priorities, new ventures
---

This ambidexterity is tricky to master. To this we will now turn.’

Selecting the Right Organizational Home for Innovations

Research has identified two distinct categories of innovation — sustaining and disruptive — based

on the circumstance of that innovation.'® In sustaining situations — when the race entails making better

products or services that can be sold for more money or at lower costs to the most attractive customers --

4

we find that incumbents almost always prevail. In disruptive circumstances — when the challenge is to

commercialize a simpler, more convenient product/service that sells for less money and appeals to a new

or previously unattractive customer set ~ the new entrants are likely to beat the incumbents.

The RPP framework of organizational capabilities helps us see why the leading firms’ track

records differ so markedly across these two tasks. The industry leaders develop and introduce sustaining

technologies and innovations over and over again. In the study of the computer disk drive industry that

was the foundation of The Innovator’s Dilemma, 111 of the 116 new technologies were sustaining ones.

Year after year, as established companies introduce new and improved products in order to gain an edge

over the competition, they refine processes for evaluating the technological potential and assessing their

customers’ needs for alternative sustaining technologies. In other words, the organizations develop a

capability for sustaining innovation that resides in their processes. Sustaining-technology investments

also fit the priorities of the leading companies, because they promise improved profit margins from better

or cost-reduced products.

On the other hand, disruptive innovations occur so intermittently that no company has a practiced

process for handling them. Furthermore, because disruptive products typically promise lower profit

margin dollars per unit sold and cannot be used by the best customers, disruptions are inconsistent with

the leading companies’ priorities. Established companies have the resources—the engineers, money, and

technology—required to succeed at both sustaining and disruptive technologies. But their processes and

the priorities that are embedded in their business models constitute disabilities in their efforts to succeed

at disruptive innovation.

In contrast, new companies are actually more capable of pursuing disruptive growth markets.

Lacking resources doesn’t constrain them. Their priorities can embrace small markets, and their cost

structures can accommodate lower margin dollars per unit sold. Their informal market research and

resource allocation processes allow managers to proceed intuitively rather than having to be backed up by

careful research and analysis and elaborate approval processes with formal status presentations and

reviews every quarter. Executives who are building new-growth businesses therefore must ensure that

responsibility for making the venture successful is given to an organization whose processes will facilitate

what needs to be done and whose business model permits prioritization of those activities. The theory is

that the requirements of an innovation need to fit with the host organization’s processes and priorities, or

it will not succeed.

It is important to remember that “disruption” and “sustaining” as we use them are relative terms.

What is disruptive to one company might have a sustaining impact on another. For example, Dell

Computer began by selling computers directly to businesses and end-users by catalog and telephone,

without using the distributor and retail dealer channel then commonly employed by the incumbents. For

Dell, the initiative to begin selling over the Internet was a sustaining innovation. Dell adopted Internet

retailing easily and successfully since it effectively allowed them to offer their more sophisticated existing

customers a faster, more efficient, and lower cost way of doing what they already did — order directly

from Dell.

For Compaq, HP and IBM, however, on-line marketing directly to customers was decidedly

disruptive because of its impact on their distribution and retail channels. The only way they could have

succeeded at becoming leaders in on-line marketing would have been to abandon their fundamental

distribution channel strategy, which could only be done by creating an autonomous business unit, and

possibly a new brand, led by managers not already emotionally committed to a retail distribution channel.

Similarly, the on-line brokerage was a sustaining technology to discount stockbrokers such as

Schwab and Ameritrade, but is disruptive to full-service brokers such as Merrill Lynch.

5

“Organizations cannot disrupt themselves. So when Merrill Lynch implemented Internet-based

equities trading within its mainstream brokerage organization, the effect was essentially to bring better

information to Merrill’s full-service brokers, to help them do an even better job servicing the needs of

their high-net-worth clients. The Internet system was shaped as a sustaining technology relative to Merrill

Lynch—and no other outcome would be possible. Furthermore, this was a wise thing for Merrill Lynch to

do. Its brokerage business for wealthy clients is healthy and profitable. Merrill would be crazy not to

make it even better. But Merrill’s executives should not conclude that they have addressed the disruption

posed by Charles Schwab. They could only do that if they acquired or created an autonomous unit whose

business model helped them earn attractive profits at discount prices with lower-net-worth clients.

This is an important reason for the observation we have made elsewhere that established

companies are prone to cram disruptive ideas into the mainstream market, forcing them to compete on a

sustaining-technology basis.'' When the strategies for developing and commercializing these disruptive

innovations are developed within the mainstream organization, this is the only outcome that we can

expect. A unit’s processes and the priorities embedded in its business model ensure that it can only

implement innovations in a sustaining way.

Creating New Capabilities

The RPP model can be a useful guide for executives who determine that they need to create new

capabilities because those that their organization presently has aren’t well suited for building new-growth

businesses. This can be framed as a make-or-buy decision. We typically frame make-or-buy decisions as

relating to resources, such as making vs. procuring components, developing vs. licensing technology, and

so on. But processes and business models can also be made or bought, as described below.

Creating New Business Models