SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation in Supply Chains
SUMMARY: Describes the process of de-commoditization in supply chains as a result of modular product assembly and performance-defining subsystems.
KEYWORDS: commoditization, de-commoditization, modular products, performance-defining subsystems, value chain
---

improvements in performance-defining components, as a result, throws the suppliers of those

components back to the not-good-enough side of the disruption diagram.

5-3

Competitive forces consequently compel suppliers of these performance-defining

components to create architectures that, within the subsystems, are increasingly interdependent

and proprietary. Hence, the performance-defining subsystems become de-commoditized as the

result of the end-use products becoming modular and commoditized.

Let us summarize the steps in this reciprocal process of de-commoditization:

1. The low-cost strategy of modular product assemblers is only viable as long as they

are competing against higher-cost opponents. This means that as soon as they drive

the high-cost suppliers of proprietary products out of a tier of the market, they must

move up-market to take them on again in order to continue to earn attractive profits.

2. Because the mechanisms that constrain or determine how rapidly they can move up-

market are the performance-defining subsystems, these elements become not good

enough and are flipped to the left side of the disruption diagram.

3. Competition among subsystem suppliers causes their engineers to devise designs

that are increasingly proprietary and interdependent. They must do this as they

strive to enable their customers to deliver better performance in their end-use

products than the customers could if they used competitors’ subsystems.

4. The leading providers of these subsystems therefore find themselves selling

differentiated, proprietary products with attractive profitability.

5. This creation of a profitable, proprietary product is the beginning, of course, of the

next cycle of commoditization and de-commoditization.

Figure 5-1 illustrates more generally how this worked in the product value chain of the

personal computer industry in the 1990s. Starting at the top of the diagram, money flowed from

the customer to the companies that designed and assembled computers; as the decade progressed,

however, less and less of the total potential profit stayed with the computer makers—most of it

flowed right through these companies to their suppliers.’

As a result, quite a bit of the money that the assemblers got from their customers flowed

over to Microsoft and lodged there. Another chunk flowed to Intel and stopped there. Money

also flowed to the makers of dynamic random access memory (DRAM), such as Samsung and

Micron, but not much of it stopped at those stages in the value chain in the form of profit. It

flowed through and accumulated instead at firms like Applied Materials, which supplied the

manufacturing equipment that the DRAM makers used. Similarly, money flowed right through

the assemblers of modular disk drives, such as Maxtor and Quantum, and tended to lodge at the

stage of value added where heads and disks were made.

Figure 5.1: Where the Money Was Made in the PC Industry’s Product Value Chain

3 Desktop personal

\ # computer companies

~ |

t

8

$15 $8

ete’ nate fe

Disk drive"

Operating Microprocessor makers makers

System (Intel) 8 S$)

(Microsoft) |

BS BG

S.$)8 EIS

Manufacturing Head & disk design

equipment & manufacturing

(Applied Materials)

What is different about the baskets in the diagram that held money, versus those through

which the money seemed to leak? The tight baskets in which profit accumulated for most of this

period were products that were not yet good enough for what their immediate customers in the

value chain needed. The architectures of those products therefore tended to be interdependent

and proprietary. Firms in the leaky-basket situation could only hang onto subsistence profits

because the functionality of their products tended to be more than good enough. Their (

architectures therefore were modular. fh s the yealoyy oun ‘a ulonse y :

If a company supplies a performance-defining but not-yet-good-enough input for its

customers’ products or processes, it has the power to capture attractive profit. Consider the

DRAM industry as an example. While the architecture of their own chips was modular, DRAM

makers could not be satisfied even with the very best manufacturing equipment available. In

order to succeed, DRAM makers needed to make their products at ever-higher yields and ever-

lower costs. This rendered the functionality of equipment made by firms such as Applied

Materials not good enough. The architecture of this equipment became interdependent and

proprietary as a consequence, as the equipment makers strove to inch closer to the functionality

that their customers needed.

It is important never to conclude that an industry such as disk drives or DRAMs is

inherently unprofitable, whereas others such as microprocessors or semiconductor manufacturing

equipment are inherently profitable. “Industry” is usually a faulty categorization scheme.* What

makes an industry appear to be attractively profitable is the circumstance in which its companies

happen to be at a particular point in time, at each point in the value-added chain, because the law

5-5

L »

ec

of conservation of attractive profits is almost always at work (see the appendix to this chapter).

Let’s take a deeper look at the disk drive industry to see why this is so.

For most of the 1990s, in the market tiers where disk drives were sold to makers of

desktop personal computers, the capacity and access times of the drives were more than

adequate. The drives’ architectures consequently became modular, and the gross margins that the

nonintegrated assemblers of 3.5-inch drives could eke out in the desktop PC segment declined to

around 12 percent. Nonintegrated disk drive assemblers such as Maxtor and Quantum dominated

this market (their collective market share exceeded 90 percent) because integrated manufacturers

such as IBM could not survive on such razor-thin margins.

The drives had adequate capacity, but the assemblers could not be satisfied even with the

very best heads and disks available, because if they maximized the amount of data they could

store per square inch of disk space, they could use fewer disks and heads in the drives-—-which

was a powerful driver of cost. The heads and disks, consequently, became not good enough and

evolved toward complex, interdependent subassemblies. Head and disk manufacturing became

so profitable, in fact, that many major drive makers integrated backward into making their own