SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Modular Design and Industry Structure
SUMMARY: The text discusses how modularity enables independent organizations to sell, buy, and assemble components, disrupting integrated leaders with lower overhead costs.
KEYWORDS: modularity, industry structure, disruption, integrated leaders, nonintegrated competitors
---

performance, firms have the slack to trade away some performance with these customers because

functionality is more than good enough.

Modularity has a profound impact on industry structure because it enables independent,

nonintegrated organizations to sell, buy, and assemble components and subsystems.® Whereas in

the interdependent world you had to make all of the key elements of the system in order to make

any of them, in a modular world you can prosper by outsourcing or by supplying just one

element. Ultimately, the specifications for modular interfaces will coalesce as industry standards.

When that happens, companies can mix and match components from best-of-breed suppliers in

order to respond conveniently to the specific needs of individual customers.

As depicted in figure 4-1, these nonintegrated competitors disrupt the integrated leader.

Although we have drawn this diagram in two dimensions for simplicity, technically speaking

they are hybrid disruptors because they compete with a modified metric of performance on the

vertical axis of the disruption diagram, in that they strive to deliver rapidly exactly what each

customer needs. Yet, because their nonintegrated structure gives them lower overhead costs, they

can profitably pick off low-end customers with discount prices.

From Interdependent to Modular Design—and Back

The progression from integration to modularization plays itself out over and over as

products improve enough to overshoot customers’ requirements.” When wave after wave of

sequential disruptions sweep through an industry, this progression repeats itself within each

wave. In the original mainframe value network of the computer industry, for example, IBM

enjoyed unquestioned dominance in the first decade with its interdependent architectures and

vertical integration. In 1964, however, it responded to cost, complexity, and time-to-market

pressure by creating a more modular design starting with its System 360. Modularization forced

IBM to back away from the frontier of functionality, shifting from the left to the right trajectory

of performance improvement in figure 4-1. This created space at the high end for competitors

4.5

such as Control Data and Cray Research, whose interdependent architectures continued to push

the bleeding edge of what was possible.

Opening its architecture was not a mistake for IBM: The economics of competition

forced it to take these steps.!° Indeed, modularity reduced development and production costs and

enabled IBM to custom-configure systems for each customer. This created a major new wave of

growth in the industry. Another effect of modularization, however, was that nonintegrated

companies could begin to compete effectively. A population of nonintegrated suppliers of plug-

compatible components and subsystems such as disk drives, printers, and data input devices

enjoyed lower overhead costs and began disrupting IBM en masse.

This cycle repeated itself when minicomputers began their new-market disruption of

mainframes. Digital Equipment Corporation initially dominated that industry with its proprietary

architecture when minicomputers really weren’t very good, because its hardware and operating

system software were interdependently designed to maximize performance. As functionality

subsequently approached adequacy, however, other competitors such as Data General, Wang

Laboratories, and Prime Computer that were far less integrated but much faster to market began

taking significant share.'' As happened in mainframes, the minicomputer market boomed

because of the better and less-expensive products that this intensified competition created.

The same sequence occurred in the personal computer wave of disruption. During the

early years, Apple Computer—the most integrated company with a proprietary architecture—

made by far the best desktop computers. They were easier to use and crashed much less often

than computers of modular construction. Ultimately, when the functionality of desktop machines

became good enough, IBM’s modular, open-standard architecture became dominant. Apple’s

proprietary architecture, which in the not-good-enough circumstance was a competitive strength,

became a competitive liability in the more-than-good-enough circumstance. Apple as a

consequence was relegated to niche-player status as the growth explosion in personal computers

was captured by the nonintegrated providers of modular machines.

The same transition will have occurred before long in the next two waves of disruptive

computer products ~ notebook computers and hand-held wireless devices. The companies that

are most successful in the beginning are those with optimized, interdependent architectures.

Companies whose strategy is prematurely modular will struggle to be performance-competitive

during the very years when performance is the basis of competition. Later, architectures and

industry structures will evolve toward openness and disintegration.

Figure 4-2 summarizes these transitions in the personal computer industry in a simplified

way, showing how the proprietary systems and vertically integrated company that was strongest

during the industry’s initial not-good-enough years gave way to a nonintegrated, horizontally

stratified population of companies in its later years. It almost looks like the industry got pushed

through a baloney slicer. The chart would look similar for each of the value networks in the

industry. In each instance, the driver of modularization and disintegration was not the passage of

time or the “maturation” of the industry per se.'? What drives this process is this predictable

causal sequence:

1. The pace of technological improvement outstrips the ability of customers to utilize

it, so that a product’s functionality and reliability that were not good enough at one

point overshoot what customers can utilize at a later point.

2. This forces companies to compete differently: The basis of competition changes. As

customers become less and less willing to reward further improvements in

functionality and reliability with premium prices, those suppliers that get better and

better at conveniently giving customers exactly what they want when they need it

are able to earn attractive margins.

3. As competitive pressures force companies to be as fast and responsive as possible,

they solve this problem by evolving the architecture of their products from being

proprietary and interdependent toward being modular.

4. Modularity enables the dis-integration of the industry. A population of

nonintegrated firms can now outcompete the integrated firms that had dominated

the industry. Whereas integration at one point was a competitive necessity, it later

becomes a competitive disadvantage.!?

Figure 4.2

Impact of Modular Architectures on the Degree of Integration in the Computer Industry

Materials

Components