SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the distinction between sustaining and disruptive innovations, and how disruptive innovations can ultimately disrupt and crush industry incumbents.
KEYWORDS: sustaining innovation, disruptive innovation, industry disruption, innovator's dilemma, minimills
---

up. As depicted at the left side of figure 1-1, the technology was not good enough. But today’s

processors offer much more speed than mainstream customers can use—although there are still a

few unsatisfied customers in the most demanding tiers of the market who need even-faster chips.

The third critical element of the model is the distinction between sustaining and

disruptive innovation. A sustaining innovation targets demanding, high-end customers with

better performance than what was previously available. Some sustaining innovations are the

incremental year-by-year improvements that all good companies grind out. Other sustaining

innovations are breakthrough, leapfrog-beyond-the-competition products. It doesn’t matter how

technologically difficult the innovation is, however: The established competitors almost always

win the battles of sustaining technology. Because this strategy entails making a better product

that they can sell for higher profit margins to their best customers, the established competitors

have powerful motivations to fight sustaining battles. And they have the resources to win.

Disruptive innovations, in contrast, don’t attempt to bring better products to established

customers in existing markets. Rather, they disrupt and redefine that trajectory by introducing

products and services that are not as good as currently available products. But disruptive

technologies offer other benefits—typically, they are simpler, more convenient, and less

expensive products that appeal to new or less-demanding customers.

Once the disruptive product gains a foothold in new or low-end markets, the

improvement cycle begins. And because the pace of technological progress outstrips customers’

abilities to use it, the previously not-good-enough technology eventually improves enough to

intersect with the needs of more demanding customers. When that happens, the disruptors are on

a path that will ultimately crush the incumbents. This distinction is important for innovators

" seeking to create new-growth businesses. Whereas the current leaders of the industry almost

always triumph in battles of sustaining innovation, the odds at disruptive innovation heavily

favor entrant companies.

Disruption has a paralyzing effect on industry leaders. With resource allocation processes

designed and perfected to support sustaining innovations, they are constitutionally unable to

respond. They are always motivated to go up-market, and almost never motivated to defend the

new or low-end markets that the disruptors find attractive. We call this phenomenon asymmetric

motivation. It is the core of the innovator’s dilemma, and the beginning of the innovator’s

solution.

1-3

Disruption at Work: How Minimills Upended Integrated Steel Companies

The disruption of integrated steel mills by minimills, which is reviewed briefly in The

Innovator’s Dilemma, offers a classic example of why established leaders are so much easier to

beat if the idea for a new product or business is shaped into a disruption.

Historically, most of the world’s steel has come from massive integrated mills that do

everything from reacting iron ore, coke, and limestone in blast furnaces to rolling finished

products at the other end. It costs about $8 billion to build a huge new integrated mill today.

Minimills, in contrast, melt scrap steel in electric arc furnaces—cylinders that are approximately

twenty meters in diameter and ten meters tall. Because they can produce molten steel cost-

effectively in such a small chamber, minimills don’t need the massive-scale rolling and finishing

operations that are required to handle the output of efficient blast furnaces—which is why they

are called minimills. Most important, though, minimills’ straightforward technology can make

steel of any given quality for 20 percent lower cost than an integrated mill.

Steel is a commodity. You would think that every integrated steel company in the world

would have aggressively adopted the straightforward, lower-cost minimill technology. Yet as of

2000 not a single integrated steel company had successfully invested in a minimill, even as the

minimills had grown to account for nearly half of North America’s steel production and a

significant share of other markets as well.>

We can explain why something that makes so much sense has been so difficult for the

integrated mills. Minimills first became technologically viable in the mid-1960s. Because they

melt scrap of uncertain and varying chemistry in their electric arc furnaces, the quality of the

steel that minimills initially could produce was poor. In fact, the only market that would accept

the output of minimills was the concrete reinforcing bar (rebar) market. The specifications for

rebar are loose, so this was an ideal market for products of low and variable quality.

As the minimills attacked the rebar market, the integrated mills were happy to be rid of

that dog-eat-dog commodity business. Because of the differences in their cost structures and the

opportunities for investment that they each faced, the rebar market looked very different to the

disruptee and the disruptor. For integrated producers, gross profit margins on rebar often hovered

near 7 percent, and the entire product category accounted for only 4 percent of the industry’s “

tonnage. It was the least attractive of any tier of the market in which they might invest to grow.

So as the minimills established a foothold in the rebar market, the integrated mills reconfigured

their rebar lines to make more profitable products.

In contrast, with a 20 percent cost advantage, the minimills enjoyed attractive profits in

competition against the integrated mills for rebar—until 1979, when the minimills finally

succeeded in driving the last integrated mill out of the rebar market. Historical pricing statistics

show that the price of rebar then collapsed by 20 percent. As long as the minimills could

compete against higher-cost integrated mills, the game was profitable for them. But as soon as

low-cost minimill was pitted against low-cost minimill in a commodity market, the reward for

victory was that none of them could earn attractive profits in rebar.° Worse, as they all sought

profitability by becoming more efficient producers, they discovered that cost reductions meant

survival, but not profitability, in a commodity such as rebar.’

Soon, however, the minimills looked up-market, and what they saw there spelled relief. If

they could just figure out how to make bigger and better steel—shapes like angle iron and thicker