SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Strategy, Industry Dynamics
SUMMARY: The text analyzes how the locus of competitive advantage has shifted in the personal computer industry, from proprietary integration to commoditization and de-commoditization.
KEYWORDS: personal computer industry, commoditization, competitive advantage, value chain, industry dynamics
---

proprietary integration have migrated in the personal computer industry.

On the left side of the diagram, which represents the earliest years of the desktop

computer industry when product functionality was extremely limited, Apple Computer, with its

proprietary architecture and integrated business model, was the most successful firm and was

attractively profitable. The firms that supplied the bare components and materials to Apple, and

the independent, arm’s-length retailers that sold the computers, were not in nearly as attractive a

position. In the late 1990s, the processes of commoditization and de-commoditization had

transferred the points at which proprietary integration could build proprietary competitive

advantage to the retail interface with the customer (Dell) and to the interfaces within the

subsystems (Intel and Microsoft).

We believe that this is an important factor that explains why Dell Computer was more

successful than Compaq during the 1990s. Dell was integrated across an important not-good-

enough interface, whereas Compaq was not. We also would expect that a proper cost accounting

would show that Dell’s profits from retailing operations are far greater than the profits from its

assembly operations.

Figure 5.2: The Shifting Locus of Advantage in the PC Industry’s Process Value Chain

Value Chain

Personal computer

retailing

Interdependent

design & ‘assembly of

personal computers

Direct &

interdependent

manufacturer-

customer interface

Design & assembly of

modular computers

Components

Performance-

defining subsystems

with interdependent

architectures

There are two ways to think of a product or service’s value chain. It can be

conceptualized in terms of its processes, that is, the value-added steps required to create

or deliver it. For example, the processes of design, component manufacture, assembly,

marketing, sales, and distribution are generic processes in a value chain. A value chain

can also be thought of in terms of components, or the “bill of materials” that go into a

product. For example, the engine block, chassis, braking systems, and electronic

subassemblies that go into a car are components of a car’s value chain. It is helpful to

keep both ways of thinking about a value chain in mind, since value chains are also

“fractal”—that is, they are equally complex at every level of analysis. Specifically, for a

given product that goes through the processes that define its value chain, various

components must be used. Yet every component that is used has its own sequence of

processes through which it must pass. The complexity of analyzing a product’s value

chain is essentially irreducible. The question is which level of complexity one wishes to

This discussion builds heavily on Professor Michael Porter’s five forces framework and

his characterization of the value chain. See Michael Porter, Competitive Strategy (New

York: The Free Press, 1980) and Competitive Advantage (New York: The Free Press,

5-16

1985). Analysts often use Porter’s five forces framework to determine which firms in a

value-added system can wield the greatest power to appropriate profit from others. In

many ways, our model in chapters 4 and 5 provides a dynamic overlay on his five forces

model, suggesting that the strength of these forces is not invariant over time. It shows

how the power to capture an above-average portion of the industry’s profit is likely to

migrate to different stages of the value chain in a predictable way in response to the

phenomena we describe here.

As a general observation, when you examine what seems to be the hey-day of most major

companies, it was (or is) a period when the functionality and reliability of their products

did not yet satisfy large numbers of customers. As a result, they had products with

proprietary architectures, and made them with strong competitive cost advantages.

Furthermore, when they introduced new and improved products, the new products could

sustain a premium price because functionality was not yet good enough and the new

products came closer to meeting what was needed. This can be said for the Bell telephone

system; Mack trucks; Caterpillar earthmoving equipment; Xerox photocopiers; Nokia and

Motorola mobile telephone handsets; Intel microprocessors; Microsoft operating systems;

Cisco routers; the IT consulting businesses of EDS or IBM, the Harvard Business School;

and many other companies.

In the following text we will use the term subsystem to mean, generally, an assembly of

components and materials that provides a piece of the functionality required for an end-

use system to be operational.

Once again, we see linkages to Professor Michael Porter’s notion that there are two

viable “generic” strategies: differentiation and low cost (see Chapter 1, note 12, supra).

Our model describes the mechanism that causes neither of these strategies to be

sustainable. Differentiability is destroyed by the mechanism that leads to modularization

and dis-integration. Low-cost strategies are viable only as long as the population of low-

cost competitors does not have sufficient capacity to supply what customers in a given

tier of the market demand. Price is set at the intersection of the supply and demand

curves—at the cash cost of the marginal producer. When the marginal producer is a

higher-cost disruptee, then the low-cost disruptors can make attractive profits. But when

the high-cost competitors are gone and the entire market demand can be supplied by

equally low-cost suppliers of modular products, then what was a low-cost strategy

becomes an equal-cost strategy.

Not all the components or subsystems in a product contribute to the specific performance

attributes of value to customers. Those that drive the performance that matters are the

“performance-defining” components or subsystems. In the case of a personal computer,

for example, the microprocessor, the operating system, and the applications have long

been the performance-defining subsystems.

Analysts’ estimates of how much of the industry’s money stayed with computer

assemblers and how much “leaked” through to back-end or subsystem suppliers are

summarized in “Deconstructing the Computer Industry,” Business Week, 23 November

1992, 90-96. As we note in the appendix to this chapter, we would expect that much of

5-17

ll,

12.

13.

Dell’s profit comes from its direct-to-customer retailing operations, not from product

assembly.