SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation Strategy
SUMMARY: This text discusses how companies can beat their most powerful competitors through disruptive innovation strategies.
KEYWORDS: disruptive innovation, competitive strategy, market disruption, business model innovation, technology disruption
---

¢48038.138 1no doyaaop oA ppnoys MOH

ESSOUISNG IY} 9INJINAYS OMA P[NOYS MOP

{S19UI0}SND 0} BINQLIISIP 9A PNOYs MOH

£398.18] 94 p[NOYs Sx9UIOJSND YI AA

pose oi [JIM JBYA puL savy 9A Op satTIqudes yey AA

g}over Aoy] [IAA ALoY pue oq WoNTed UID NO [ITAA OF AA

a Am tw SK wo A

E2AL Yoo, (aatA.10s) yonposd ay} pynoys Jey AA

SOAUHIUL YIMOIS oUljeloues Ul suOSOND Ad

“332 ‘Buiuuyd “suynospnq

‘Buunjoupnuew ‘yuoudojaaop WdY} 19409 03 pazinbas

‘Suiuteaz ABAt JUI}SISUOD AyWOPA 3 SUIBIU dy} PUL

8 UE SYSU} WUOLINIIA ssaippe | ————~> | ‘a1njIN2js 4809 paxly 3 spossy

0} 1940503 Sury10M Jo SABAA ‘Vinnor itiowd

‘SUSSHIONd

| |

SI3U0JSNI P2}931E} IY} OF

uoytsodoad anjea sit} J9ATpap

0) posmnbas a1¥ yey] Ysvo pur

‘spuvig Quaudinba ‘sanylovy | ~———

‘syanposd ‘Asojouyra3 ‘ajdoog

op 07 3ui4j usaq 2a,Aoy3 got

ue Ayqupsoyye ap Ayuoruaauos

‘AJQAsj}I9JJ9 BAOUL OP S.1dUO}SND

sdyoy yeu} yonpoid y

SqDUNOSTa ‘NOILISOdOUd ANTVA FHL

PPoW ssouisng & Sjey AA

Chapter 2

How Can We Beat Our Most Powerful Competitors?

How can I know in advance of the battle whether I’m going to be able to beat the

competition? Why has disruption proven to be such a consistently effective

strategy for causing strong incumbent competitors to flee from their entrant

attackers, rather than fight then? How can I shape a business idea into a

disruptive strategy?

What if you could predict the winners in a race for innovative growth? What if you could

choose your competitive battles knowing you would win nearly every time? What if you knew in

advance which growth strategies would succeed, and which would fail?

Managers have long sought ways to predict the outcome of competitive fights. Some look

at the attributes of the companies involved: Larger companies with more resources to throw at a

problem will beat the smaller competitors. It’s interesting how often the CEOs of large, resource-

rich companies base their strategies upon this theory, despite repeated evidence that the level of

resources committed often bears little relationship to the outcome.

Others consider the attributes of the change: When innovations are incremental, the

established, leading firms in an industry are likely to reinforce their dominance; however,

compared with entrants, they will be conservative and ineffective in exploiting breakthrough

innovation.' We noted in the introduction that predictions based on attribute-based categories, as

these are, prove frustratingly undependable.

Our ongoing study of innovation suggests another way to understand when incumbents

will win, and when the entrants are @ tkely to beat them. The Innovator ‘s Dilemma identified two

Ne ation. In ,

il. In disruptive

circumstances—when the challenge is simpler, more con nt product that

sells for less money and appeals to a new or unattractive customer set—the entrants are likely to

beat the incumbents. This is the phenomenon that so frequently defeats successful companies. It

implies, of course, that the best way for upstarts to attack established competitors is to disrupt

them.

Few technologies or business ideas are intrinsically sustaining or disruptive in character.

Rather, their disruptive impact must be molded into strategy as managers shape the idea into a

plan and then implement it. Successful new-growth builders know—either intuitively or

explicitly—that disruptive strategies greatly increase the odds of competitive success.

This chapter’s purpose is to review the disruptive innovation model from the perspective

of both the disruptee and the disruptor in order to help growth builders shape their strategies so

that they pick disruptive fights they can win. Because disruption happens whether we want it or

1-1

not, this chapter should also help established companies capture disruptive growth, instead of

getting killed by it.

The Disruptive Innovation Model

The Innovator’s Dilemma identified three critical elements of disruption, as depicted in

figure 1-1. First, in every market there is a rate of improvement that customers can utilize or

absorb, represented by the dotted line sloping gently upward across the chart. For example, the

automobile companies keep giving us new and improved engines, but we can’t utilize all the

performance that they make available under the hood. Factors such as traffic jams, speed limits,

and safety concerns constrain how much performance we can use.

Figure 1.1: The Disruptive Innovation Model

Performance

a Performa!

= can utilize or absorb

Disruptive

technologies

Time

To simplify the chart, we depict customers’ ability to utilize improvement as a single line.

In reality, there is a distribution of customers around this median: There are many such lines, or

tiers, in a market—~a range indicated by the distribution curve at the right. Customers in the

highest or most demanding tiers may never be satisfied with the best that is available, and those

in the lowest or least demanding tiers can be over-satisfied with very little.? But on average, this

dotted line represents technology that is “good enough” to serve existing mainstream customers’

needs.

Second, in every market there is a distinctly different trajectory of improvement that

innovating companies provide as they introduce new and improved products. The more steeply

1-2

sloping solid lines in figure 1-1 suggest that this pace of technological progress almost always

outstrips the ability of customers in any given tier of the market to use it. Thus, a company

whose products are squarely positioned on mainstream customers’ current needs will probably

overshoot what those same customers are able to utilize in the future. This happens because

companies keep striving to make better products that they can sell for higher profit margins to

not-yet-satisfied customers in more demanding tiers of the market.

To visualize this, think back to 1983 when people first started using personal computers

for word processing. Typists often had to stop their fingers to let the Intel 286 chip inside catch

up. As depicted at the left side of figure 1-1, the technology was not good enough. But today’s

processors offer much more speed than mainstream customers can use—although there are still a

few unsatisfied customers in the most demanding tiers of the market who need even-faster chips.