SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disk Drive Industry Dynamics
SUMMARY: The text analyzes the disk drive industry, highlighting how the 2.5-inch drives used in notebook computers were more profitable than the 3.5-inch drives for desktop PCs, and how IBM's integration strategy allowed it to capitalize on this trend.
KEYWORDS: disk drive industry, modularity, IBM, profitability, integration strategy
---

was a powerful driver of cost. The heads and disks, consequently, became not good enough and

evolved toward complex, interdependent subassemblies. Head and disk manufacturing became

so profitable, in fact, that many major drive makers integrated backward into making their own

heads and disks.”

But it wasn’t the disk drive industry that was marginally profitable—it was the modular

circumstance in which the 3.5-inch drive makers found themselves. The evidence: The much

smaller 2.5-inch disk drives used in notebook computers tended not to have enough capacity

during this same era. True to form, their architectures were interdependent, and the products had

to be made by integrated companies. As the most integrated manufacturer and the one with the

most advanced head and disk technology in the 1990s, IBM made 40 percent gross margins in

2.5-inch drives and controlled 80 percent of that market. In contrast, IBM had less than 3 percent

of the unit volume in drives sold to the desktop PC market, where its integration rendered it

uncompetitive.'?

At the time we first published our analysis of this situation in 1999," it appeared that the

capacity of 2.5-inch disk drives was becoming more than good enough in the notebook computer

application as well—presaging, for what had been a beautiful business for IBM, the onset of

commoditization. We asserted that IBM, as the most integrated drive maker, actually was in a

very attractive position if it played its cards right. It could skate to where the money would be by

using the advent of modularity to decouple its head and disk operations from its disk drive design

and assembly business. If IBM would begin to sell its most advanced heads and disks to

competing 2.5-inch disk drive makers—aggressively putting them into the business of

assembling modular 2.5-inch drives—it could eventually de-emphasize the assembly of drives

and focus on the more profitable head and disk components. In so doing, IBM could continue to

enjoy the most attractive levels of profit in the industry. In other words, on the not-good-enough

side of the disruptive diagram, IBM could fight in the war and win. On the more-than-good-

enough side, a better strategy is to sell bullets to the combatants.”

IBM made similar moves several years earlier in its computer business, through its

decisions to decouple its vertical chain and to sell its technology, components, and subsystems

aggressively in the open market. Simultaneously it created a consulting and systems integration

business in the high end and moved to de-emphasize the design and assembly of computers. As

5-6

IBM skated to those points in the value-added chain where complex, nonstandard integration

needed to occur, it led to a remarkable—and remarkably profitable—transformation of a huge

company in the 1990s.

The bedrock principle bears repeating: The companies that are positioned at a spot in a

value chain where performance is not yet good enough will capture the profit. That is the

circumstance where differentiable products, scale-based cost advantages, and high entry barriers

can be created.

To the extent that an integrated company such as IBM can flexibly couple and decouple

its operations, rather than irrevocably sell off operations, it has greater potential to thrive

profitably for an extended period than does a nonintegrated firm such as Compaq. This is

because the processes of commoditization and de-commoditization are continuously at work,

causing the place where the money will be to shift across the value chain over time.

Core Competence and the ROA-Maximizing Death Spiral

Firms that are being commoditized often ignore the reciprocal process of de-

commoditization that occurs simultaneously with commoditization, either a layer down in

subsystems or next door in adjacent processes. They miss the opportunity to move where the

money will be in the future, and get squeezed—or even killed—as different firms catch the

growth made possible by de-commoditization. In fact, powerful but perverse investor pressure to

increase returns on assets (ROA) creates strong incentives for assemblers to skate away from

where the money will be. And having failed to recognize their modular, commoditized

circumstance, the firms turn to attribute-based core competence theory to make decisions they

may later regret.

How can firms that assemble modular products meet investors’ demands that they

improve their return on assets or capital employed? They cannot improve the numerator of the

ROA ratio because differentiating their product or producing it at lower costs than competitors is

nearly impossible. Their only option is to shrink the denominator of the ROA ratio by getting rid

of assets. This would be difficult in an interdependent world that demanded integration, but the

modular architecture of the product actually facilitates dis-integration. We will illustrate how this

happens using a disguised example of the interactions between a component supplier and an

assembler of modular personal computers. We’ll call the two firms Components Corporation and

Texas Computer Corporation (TCC), respectively.

Components Corporation begins by supplying simple circuit boards to TCC. As TCC

wrestles with investor pressure to get its ROA up, Components Corp. comes up with an

interesting proposition: “We’ve done a good job making these little boards for you. Let us supply

the whole motherboard for your computers. We can easily beat your internal costs.”

5-7

“Gosh, that would be a great idea,” TCC’s management responds. “Circuit board

fabrication isn’t our core competence anyway, and it is very asset intensive. This would reduce

our costs and get all those assets off our balance sheet.” So Components Corp. takes on the

additional value-added activity. Its revenues increase smartly, and its profitability improves

because it is utilizing its manufacturing assets better. Its stock price improves accordingly. As

TCC sheds those assets, its revenue line is unaffected. But its bottom line and its return on assets

improve—and its stock price improves accordingly.

A short time later Components Corp. approaches TCC’s management again. “You know,

the motherboard really is the guts of the computer. Let us assemble the whole computer for you.

Assembling those products really isn’t your competitive advantage, anyway, and we can easily

beat your internal costs.”