SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Retail Industry Transformation
SUMMARY: The retail industry has undergone significant changes, with specialized retailers gaining market share from broad-line department stores by offering a more focused merchandise mix and a simpler, more convenient purchasing experience.
KEYWORDS: retail industry, specialized retailers, purchasing experience, brand value, commoditization
---

industry has changed as a consequence. Specialized retailers have stolen a significant share of

market from the broad-line department stores because their focused merchandise mix allows the

customers they target to find what they want more quickly and conveniently. What is not good

enough in certain tiers of the apparel industry has shifted from the quality of the product to the

simplicity and convenience of the purchasing experience. Much of the ability to create and

maintain valuable brands, as a consequence, has migrated away from the product and to the

channel because, for the present, it is the channel that addresses the piece of added value that is

not yet good enough.'® We don’t even question who makes the dresses in Talbot’s, the sweaters

for Abercrombie & Fitch, or the jeans at Gap and Old Navy. Much of the apparel sold in those

channels carries the brand of the channel, not the manufacturer.”

5-11

A View of the Automobile Industry’s Future

Through the Lenses of This Model

Most of our examples of commoditization and de-commoditization have been drawn

from the past. To show how this theory can be used to look into the future, this section discusses

how this transformation is under way in the automobile industry, initiating a massive transfer of

the ability to make attractive profits in the future away from automobile manufacturers and

toward certain of their suppliers. Even the power to cultivate valuable brands is likely to migrate

to the subsystems. This transformation will probably take a decade or two to fully accomplish,

but once you know what to look for, it is easy to see that the processes already are irreversibly

under way.

The functionality of many automobiles has overshot what customers in the mainstream

markets can utilize. Lexus, BMW, Mercedes, and Cadillac owners will probably be willing to

pay premium prices for more of everything for years to come. But in market tiers populated by

middle- and lower-price-point models, car makers find themselves having to add more and better

features just to hang onto their market share, and they struggle to convince customers to pay

higher prices for these improvements. The reliability of models such as Toyota’s Camry and

Honda’s Accord is so extraordinary that the cars often go out of style long before they wear out.

As aresult, the basis of competition—what is not good enough—is changing in many tiers of the

auto market. Speed to market is important. Whereas it used to take five years to design a new-

model car, today it takes two. Competing by customizing features and functions to the

preferences of customers in smaller market niches is another fact of life. In the 1960s, it was not

unusual for a single model’s sales to exceed a million units per year. Today the market is far

more fragmented: Annual volumes of 200,000 units are attractive. Some makers now promise

that you can walk into a dealership, custom-order a car, and have it delivered in five days—

roughly the response time that Dell Computer offers.

In order to compete on speed and flexibility, automakers are evolving toward modular

architectures for their mainstream models. Rather than uniquely designing and knitting together

individual components procured from hundreds of suppliers, most auto companies now procure

subsystems from a much narrower base of “tier one” suppliers of braking, steering, suspension,

and interior cockpit subsystems. Much of this consolidation in the supplier base has been driven

by the cost-saving opportunities that it affords—opportunities that often were identified and

quantified by analytically astute consulting firms.

The integrated American automakers have been forced to dis-integrate in order to

compete with the speed, flexibility, and reduced overhead cost structure that this new world

demands. General Motors, for example, spun off its component operations into a separate

publicly traded company, Delphi Automotive, and Ford spun off its component operations as

Visteon Corporation. Hence, the same thing is happening to the auto industry that happened to

computers: Overshooting has precipitated a change in the basis of competition, which

5-12

precipitated a change in architecture, which forced the dominant, integrated firms to dis-

integrate.

At the same time, the architecture is becoming progressively more interdependent within

most of the subsystems. The models at lower price points in the market need improved

performance from their subsystems in order to compete against higher-cost models and brands in

the tiers of the market above them. If Kia and Hyundai used their low-cost Korean

manufacturing base to conquer the subcompact tier of the market and then simply stayed there,

competition would vaporize profits. They must move up, and once their architectures have

become modular the only way to do this is to be fueled by ever-better subsystems.

The newly interdependent architectures of many subsystems are forcing the tier-one

suppliers to be less flexible at their external interface. The automobile designers are increasingly

needing to conform their designs to the specifications of the subsystems, just as desktop

computer makers need to conform the designs of their computers to the external interfaces of

Intel’s microprocessor and Microsoft’s operating system. As a consequence, we would expect

that the ability to earn attractive profits is likely to migrate away from the auto assemblers,

toward the subsystem vendors.

In chapter 4 we recounted how IBM’s PC business outsourced its microprocessor to Intel

and its operating system to Microsoft, in order to be fast and flexible. In the process, IBM hung

on to where the money had been—design and assembly of the computer system—-and put into

business the two companies that were positioned where the money would be. General Motors

and Ford, with the encouragement of their consultants and investment bankers, have just done

the same thing. They had to decouple the vertical stages in their value chains in order to stay

abreast of the changing basis of competition. But they have spun off the pieces of value-added

activity where the money will be, in order to stay where the money has been."

oR oe ok He oe ok