SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Strategy, Outsourcing, Vertical Integration
SUMMARY: The text describes a company, TCC, that progressively outsources various business functions to another company, Components Corp., leading to increased profitability and stock price for both companies.
KEYWORDS: outsourcing, vertical integration, value chain, profitability, business strategy
---

A short time later Components Corp. approaches TCC’s management again. “You know,

the motherboard really is the guts of the computer. Let us assemble the whole computer for you.

Assembling those products really isn’t your competitive advantage, anyway, and we can easily

beat your internal costs.”

“Gosh, that would be a great idea,” TCC’s management responds. “Assembly isn’t our

core competence anyway, and if you did our product assembly, we could get all those

manufacturing assets off our balance sheet.” Again, as Components Corp. takes on the additional

value-added activity, its revenues increase smartly and its profitability improves because it is

utilizing its manufacturing assets better. Its stock price improves accordingly. And as TCC sheds

its manufacturing assets, its revenue line is unaffected. But its bottom line and its return on assets

improve—and its stock price improves accordingly.

A short time later Components Corp. approaches TCC’s management again. ““You know,

as long as we’re assembling your computers, why do you need to deal with all the hassles of

managing the inbound logistics of components and the outbound logistics of customer

shipments? Let us deal with your suppliers and deliver the finished products to your customers.

Supply chain management really isn’t your core competence, anyway, and we can easily beat

your internal costs.”

“Gosh, that would be a great idea,” TCC’s management responds. “This would help us

get those current assets off our balance sheet.” As Components Corp. takes on the additional

value-added activity, its revenues increase smartly and its profitability improves because it is

pulling higher value-added activities into its business model. Its stock price improves

accordingly. And as TCC sheds its current assets, its revenue line is unaffected. But its

profitability improves—and its stock price gets another bounce.

A short time later Components Corp. approaches TCC’s management again. “You know,

as long as we’re dealing with your suppliers, how about you just let us design those computers

for you? The design of modular products is little more than vendor selection anyway, and since

we have closer relationships with vendors than you do, we could get better pricing and delivery

if we can work with them from the beginning of the design cycle.”

“Gosh, that would be a great idea,” TCC’s management responds. “This would help us

cut fixed and variable costs. Besides, our strength really is in our brand and our customer

relationships, not in product design.” As Components Corp. takes on the additional value-added

activity, its revenues increase further and its profitability improves because it is pulling higher

value-added activities into its business model. Its stock price improves accordingly. And as TCC

5-8

sheds cost, its revenue line is unaffected. But its profitability improves—and its stock price gets

another nice little pop—until the analysts realize that the game is over.

Ironically, in this Greek tragedy Components Corp. ends up with a value chain that is

actually more highly integrated than TCC’s was when this spiral began, but often with the pieces

reconfigured to allow Components Corp. to deliver against the new basis of competition, which

is speed to market and the ability to responsively configure what is delivered to customers in

ever-smaller segments of the market. Each time TCC off-loaded assets and processes to

Components Corp., it justified its decision in terms of its own “core competence.” It did not

occur to TCC’s management that the activities in question weren’t Components Corporation’s

core competencies, either. Whether or not something is a core competence is not the

determining factor of who can skate to where the money will be.

This story illustrates another instance of asymmetric motivations—the component

supplier is motivated to integrate forward into the very pieces of value-added activity that the

modular assembler is motivated to get out of. It is not a story of incompetence. It is a story of

perfectly rational, profit-maximizing decisions—and because of this, the ROA-maximizing death

spiral traps many companies that find themselves assembling modular products in a too-good

world. At the same time, it offers another avenue for creating new-growth businesses, in addition

to the disruptive opportunities described in chapter 1. The assembler rids itself of assets, but it

retains its revenues and often temporarily improves its bottom-line profit margins when it

decides to outsource its back-end operations to contract suppliers. It feels good. When the

supplier takes on the same pieces of business that the assembler was motivated to get out of, it

also feels good, because it increases the back-end supplier’s revenues, profits, and stock price.

For many suppliers, eating their way up the value chain creates opportunities to design

subsystems with increasingly optimized internal architectures that become key performance

drivers of the modular products that its customers assemble.

This is how Intel became a vendor of chipsets and motherboards, which constitute a

much more critical proportion of a computer’s added value and performance than did the bare

microprocessor. Nypro, Inc., a custom injection molder of precision plastic components whose

history we will examine later in this book, has followed a similar growth strategy and has

become a major manufacturer of ink-jet printer cartridges, computers, handheld wireless devices,

and medical products. Nypro’s ability to precision-mold complex structures is interdependent

with its abilities to simplify assembly.

Bloomberg L.P. has done the same thing, eating its way up Wall Street’s back end. It

started by providing simple data on securities prices and subsequently integrated forward,

automating much of the analytics. Bloomberg has disruptively enabled an army of people to

access insights that formerly only highly experienced securities analysts could derive.

Bloomberg has continued to integrate forward from the back end, so that portfolio managers can

now execute most trades from their Bloomberg terminals over a Bloomberg-owned electronic

communications network (ECN) without needing a broker or a stock exchange. Issuers of certain

government securities can now even auction their securities to institutional investors within

Bloomberg’s proprietary system. Back-end suppliers such as First Data and State Street enjoy a

similar position vis-a-vis commercial banks. Venerable Wall Street institutions are being