SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Industry Structure and Integration
SUMMARY: The text discusses the factors that influence the integration or disintegration of industries, with a focus on transaction cost economics and the role of modularity.
KEYWORDS: Industry structure, Disintegration, Transaction cost economics, Modularity, Organizational integration
---

largely dis-integrated. Specialist non-bank companies have emerged to provide each slice

of added value in these tiers of the lending industry. Whereas integration is a big

advantage in the most complex tiers of the market, in overserved tiers it is a

disadvantage.

Our conclusions support those of Stan J. Liebowitz and Stephen E. Margolis in Winners,

Losers & Microsoft: Competition and Antitrust in High Technology (Oakland, CA:

Independent Institute, 1999).

Specifiability, measurability, and predictability constitute what an economist would term

“sufficient information” for an efficient market to emerge at an interface, allowing

organizations to deal with each other at arm’s length. A fundamental tenet of capitalism

is that the invisible hand of market competition is superior to that of managerial oversight

as a coordinating mechanism between actors in a market. This is why, when a modular

interface becomes defined, an industry will dis-integrate at that interface. However, when

specifiability, measurability, and predictability do not exist, efficient markets cannot

function. It is under these circumstances that managerial oversight and coordination

perform better than market competition as a coordinating mechanism.

This is an important underpinning of the award-winning findings of Professor

Tarun Khanna and his colleagues, which show that in developing economies, diversified

business conglomerates outperform focused, independent companies, whereas the reverse

is true in developed economies. See, for example, Tarun Khanna and Krishna G. Palepu,

“Why Focused Strategies May Be Wrong for Emerging Markets,” Harvard Business

Review, July-August 1997, 41-51; and Tarun Khanna and Jan Rivkin, “Estimating the

Performance Effects of Business Groups in Emerging Markets,” Strategic Management

Journal 22 (2001): 45-74.

A bedrock set of concepts is understanding why organizational integration is

critical when the conditions of modularity are not met is developed in the “transaction

cost economics” (TCE) school of thought, which traces its origins to the work of Ronald

Coase (Coase, R. H., "The Nature of the Firm." Econometrica IV, 1937, pp. 386-405.)

Coase argued that firms were created when it got “too expensive” to negotiate and

enforce contracts between otherwise “independent” parties. More recently, the work of

Oliver Williamson has proven seminal in the exploration of transaction costs as a

determinant of firm boundaries (See, for example, Williamson, O. E., Markets and

Hierarchies. New York: The Free Press, 1975; Williamson, O. E., "Transaction Cost

Economics," in The Economic Institutions of Capitalism. O. E. Williamson. New York:

The Free Press, 1985, pp. 15-42; and Williamson, O. E., "Transaction-Cost Economics:

The Governance of Contractual Relations," in Barney, J.B. and W. G. Ouchi, eds.,

Organizational Economics. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 1986). In particular, TCE has

been used to explain the various ways in which firms might expand their operating scope:

4-15

16.

18.

19.

20.

either through unrelated diversification (Hill, C. W. L., M. A. Hitt, et al., "Cooperative

Versus Competitive Structures in Related and Unrelated Diversified Firms."

Organization Science 3(4), 1992, pp. 501-521.), related diversification (Teece, D. J.

"Economics of Scope and the Scope of the Enterprise." Journal of Economic Behavior

and Organization 1, 1980, pp. 223-247; and Teece, D. J., "Toward an Economic Theory

of the Multiproduct Firm." Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization 3, 1982, pp.

39-63), or vertical integration (Arrow, K., The Limits of Organization, W. Norton 1974;

Klein, B., R. G., Crawford, et al., "Vertical Integration, Appropriable Rents, and the

Competitive Contracting Process." Journal of Law and Economics (21), 1978, pp. 297-

326; and Harrigan, K. R., "Vertical Integration and Corporate Strategy." Academy of

Management Journal (28, 2), 1985, pp. 397-425). More generally, this line of research is

known as the “market failures” paradigm for explaining changes in firm scope (Dundas,

K. N. M. and P. R. Richardson, "Corporate Strategy and the Concept of Market Failure."

Strategic Management Journal (1, 2), 1980, pp. 177-188). Our hope is that we have

advanced this line of thinking by elaborating more precisely the considerations that give

rise to the contracting difficulties that lie at the heart of the TCE school.

Even if the incumbent local exchange carriers (ILECs) didn’t understand all the

complexities and unintended consequences better than CLEC engineers, organizationally

they were much better positioned to resolve any difficulties, since they could appeal to

organizational mechanisms rather than have to rely on cumbersome and necessarily

incomplete ex ante contracts.

Another good illustration of this is the push being made by Apple Computer, at the time

of this writing, to be the gateway to the consumer for multi-media entertainment.

Apple’s interdependent integration of the operating system and applications creates

convenience, which customers value at this point because convenience is not yet good

enough.

See “Integrate to Innovate,” a Deloitte Research study by Michael E. Raynor and Clayton

M. Christensen. Available at www.de.com/vci, or upon request from

delresearch@dc.com.

See Jeffrey Lee Funk, The Mobile Internet: How Japan Dialed Up and the West

Disconnected (Hong Kong: ISI Publications, 2001). This really is an extraordinarily

insightful study from which a host of insights can be gleaned. In his own language, Funk

shows that another important reason why DoCoMo and J-Phone were so successful in

Japan is that they followed the pattern that we describe in chapters 2 and 3 of this book.

They initially targeted customers who were largely non-Internet users (teenaged girls)

and helped them get done better a job that they had already been trying to do: have fun

with their friends. Western entrants into this market, in contrast, envisioned sophisticated

offerings to be sold to current customers of mobile phones (who primarily used them for

business) and current users of the wireline Internet. An internal perspective on this

development can be found in Mari Matsunaga, The Birth of I-Mode: An Analogue

Account of the Mobile Internet (Singapore: Chuang Yi Publishing, 2001). Matsunaga was

one of the key players in the development of i-mode at DoCoMo.

Some readers who are familiar with the different experiences of the European and

American mobile telephony industries may take issue with this paragraph. Very early on,

4-16

the Europeans coalesced around a pre-negotiated standard called GSM, which enabled