SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation
SUMMARY: This text discusses how cost reduction rarely creates competitive advantage, and analyzes the airline industry's chronic unprofitability due to low-end disruptors.
KEYWORDS: Disruptive Innovation, Competitive Advantage, Airline Industry, Low-end Disruptors
---

That cost reduction rarely creates competitive advantage is argued persuasively in

Michael Porter, “What Is Strategy?” Harvard Business Review, November—December

1996, 61~78.

We recommend in particular Steven C. Wheelwright and Kim B. Clark, Revolutionizing

New Product Development (New York: The Free Press, 1992); Stefan Thomke,

Experimentation Matters: Unlocking the Potential of New Technologies for Innovation

(Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 2003); Stefan Thomke and Eric von Hippel,

Customers as Innovators: A New Way to Create Value“ Harvard Business Review, 80

No. 4 (April 2002): 74-81; and Eric von Hippel, Zhe Sources of Innovation. (New York,

Oxford University Press, 1988).

This model explains quite clearly why the major airline companies in the United States

are so chronically unprofitable. Southwest Airlines entered as a new-market disruptor,

competing within Texas for customers who otherwise would not have flown at all, but

1-25

ll.

would have used automobiles and buses. The airline has grown carefully into nonmajor

airports, staying away from head-on competition against the majors. It is the low-end

disruptors to this industry—airlines with names such as JetBlue, AirTran, People

Express, Florida Air, Reno Air, Midway, Spirit, Presidential, and many others—that

create the chronic unprofitability.

When leaders in most other industries get attacked by low-end disruptors, they

can run away up-market and remain profitable (and often improve profitability) for some

time. The integrated steel companies fled up-market away from the minimills. The full-

service department stores fled up-market into clothing, home furnishings, and cosmetics

when the discount department stores attacked branded hard goods such as hardware,

paint, toys, sporting goods, and kitchen utensils at the low-margin end of the merchandise

mix. Today, the discount department stores such as Target and Wal-Mart are fleeing up-

market into clothing, home furnishings, and cosmetics as hard goods discounters such as

Circuit City, Toys ‘R Us, Staples, Home Depot, and Kitchens Etc. attack the low end; and

so on,

The problem in airlines is that the majors cannot flee up-market. Their high fixed-

cost structure makes it impossible to abandon the low end. Hence, low-end disruptors

easily enter and attack; once one of them gets big enough, however, the major airlines

declare that enough is enough, and they turn around and fight. This is why no low-end

disruptor to date has survived for longer than a few years. But because low-end

disruption by new companies is so easy to start, the majors can never raise low-end

pricing up to levels of attractive profitability.

This history is recounted in a marvelous paper by Richard S. Rosenbloom, “From Gears

to Chips: The Transformation of NCR and Harris in the Digital Era,” working paper,

Harvard Business School Business History Seminar, Boston, 1988.

We would be foolish to claim that it is impossible to create new-growth companies with a

sustaining, leap-beyond-the-competition strategy. It is more accurate to say that the odds

of success are very, very low. But some sustaining entrants have succeeded. For example,

EMC Corporation took the high-end data storage business away from IBM in the 1990s

with a different product architecture than IBM’s. But as best we can tell, EMC’s products

were better than IBM’s in the very applications that IBM served. Hewlett-Packard’s laser

jet printer business was a sustaining technology relative to the dot-matrix printer, a

market dominated by Epson. Yet Epson missed it. The jet engine was a radical but

sustaining innovation relative to the piston aircraft engine. Two of the piston engine

manufacturers, Rolls-Royce and Pratt & Whitney, navigated the transition to jets

successfully. Others, such as Ford, did not. General Electric was an entrant in the jet

revolution, and became very successful. These are anomalies that the theory of disruption

cannot explain. Although our bias is to assume that most managers most of the time are

on top of their businesses and manage them in competent ways, it is also true that

sometimes managers simply fall asleep at the switch.

This partially explains, for example, why Dell Computer has been such a successful

disruptor—because it has raced up-market in order to compete against higher-cost makers

of workstations and servers such as Sun Microsystems. Gateway, in contrast, has not

prospered to the same extent even though it had a similar initial business model, because

1-26

13.

14.

15.

it has not moved up-market as aggressively and is stuck with undifferentiable costs

selling undifferentiable computers. We believe that this insight represents a useful

addendum to Professor Michael Porter’s initial notion that there are two viable types of

strategy—differentiation and low cost (Michael Porter, Competitive Strategy. New York:

The Free Press, 1980). The research of disruption adds a dynamic dimension to Porter’s

work. Essentially, a low-cost strategy yields attractive profitability only until the higher-

cost competitors have been driven from a tier in the market. Then, the low-cost

competitor needs to move up so that it can compete once again against higher-cost

opponents. Without the ability to move up, a low-cost strategy becomes an equal-cost

strategy.

See Clayton M. Christensen, The Innovator’s Dilemma (Boston: Harvard Business

School Press, 1997), 130.

The concept of value networks was introduced in Clayton M. Christensen, “Value

Networks and the Impetus to Innovate,” chapter 2 in The Innovator’s Dilemma. Professor

Richard §. Rosenbloom of the Harvard Business School originally identified the

existence of value networks when he advised Christensen’s early research. In many ways,

the situation in a value network corresponds to a “Nash equilibrium,” developed by

Nobel Laureate John Nash (who became even more renowned through the movie A

Beautiful Mind). In a Nash equilibrium, given Company A’s understanding of the

optimal, self-interested (maximum-profit) strategy of each of the other companies in the

system, Company A cannot see any better strategy for itself than the one it presently is

pursuing. The same holds true for all other companies in the system. Hence, none of the

companies is motivated to change course, and the entire system therefore is relatively

inert to change. Insofar as the companies within a value network are in a Nash