SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation
SUMMARY: The text analyzes strategies for shaping ideas into disruptive innovations through new-market and low-end disruptions.
KEYWORDS: disruptive innovation, new-market disruption, low-end disruption, strategic planning, market trends
---

’ consumer power tools

Japanese steel companies

Uluasound soft

Inte] microprocessor Steel minimills

¥ tissue imaging . Credit scoring in

Endoscopic surgery Southwest Airlines consumer lending Boxed beef

ral Flat-panel displays Fidelity (self-service Charles Schwab Vanguard index mutual find:

$ investment management) Blended Plastics Barnes & Noble

faa} Personal computers C ity coll . (Himont, etc.) GE Capital

(Apple, IBM, Compag, etc.) ‘Ommunity colleges Seiko Pp

Bloomberg, digital watches MCI, Sprint Toys-R-Us

~1980 Kodak Funsaver .

single-use camera Portable diabetes Circuit City,

Microsoft glucose meters University of Sun Home Depot

Wireless telephony Oracle Canon photocopiers Embraer, Del} Microsystems BestBuy

Cisco Intuit QuickBooks (accounting) Canadair Computer

Ink jet printers and Turbo-tax software MBNA Hyundai, Kia

Veritas, Network Appliance Galan microwave ovens Digital animation (Pixar et.al.)

E-Ba airconeitoners E-mail Microsoft SQL database software ECNs

¥ Unmanned military aircraft Google Linux Amazon.com

Palm pilot, RIM BlackBerry Digital printing On-line stock On-line Jet Bl

¥ ~2000 Sonosite Ultrasound gajocn m 802.11 brokers travel agencies jet Blue

New Market « ee > Low-end

Shaping Ideas to Become Disruptive: Three Litmus Tests

At the beginning of this chapter, we mentioned that few technologies or product ideas are

inherently sustaining or disruptive when they emerge from the innovator’s mind. Instead, they go

through a process of becoming fleshed out and shaped into a strategic plan in order to win

funding. Many—but not all—of the initial ideas that get shaped into sustaining innovations could

just as readily be shaped into disruptive business plans with far greater growth potential. The

shaping process must be consciously managed, however, and not left in an autopilot mode.

Executives must answer three sets of questions to determine whether an idea has

disruptive potential. The first explores whether the idea can become a new-market disruption.

For this to happen, at least one and generally both of two conditions must be satisfied:

e Is there a large population of people who historically have not had the money,

equipment, or skill to do this thing for themselves, and as a result have gone without

it altogether or have needed to pay someone with more expertise to do it for them?

1-13

e To use the product or service, do customers need to go to an inconvenient, centralized

location?

If the technology can be developed so that a large population of less skilled or less

affluent people can begin owning and using, in a more convenient context, something that

historically was available only to more skilled or more affluent people in a centralized,

inconvenient location, then there is potential for shaping the idea into a new-market disruption.

The second set of questions explores the potential for a low-end disruption. This is

possible if these two conditions exist:

e@ Are there customers at the low end of the market who would be happy to purchase a

product with less (but good enough) performance if they could get it at a lower price?

e Can we create a business model that enables us to earn attractive profits at the

discount prices required to win the business of these overserved customers at the low

end?

Often, the innovations that enable low-end disruption are improvements in

manufacturing, service, or business processes, which enable a company to earn attractive returns

on lower gross margins, coupled with processes that turn assets faster.

Once an innovation passes the new-market or low-end test, there is still a third critical

consideration, or litmus test, to apply:

e Is the innovation disruptive to a// of the significant incumbent firms in the industry?

If it appears to be sustaining to one or more significant players in the industry, then

the odds will be stacked in that firm’s favor, and the entrant is unlikely to win.

If an idea fails the litmus tests, then it cannot be shaped into a disruption. It may have

promise as a sustaining technology, but in that case we would expect that it could not constitute

the basis of a new-growth business for an entrant company.

For summary, table 1-1 contrasts the characteristics of the three strategies that firms

might pursue in creating new-growth businesses: sustaining innovations, new-market

disruptions, and low-end disruptions. It compares the targeted product performance or features,

the targeted customers or markets, and the business model implications that each route entails.

We hope that managers can use this as a template so that they can categorize and see the

implications of different plans that might be presented to them for approval.

Executives can use this categorization and the litmus tests to foresee the competitive

consequences of alternative strategies as they shape an idea. To illustrate, we’ll examine three

questions: whether Xerox could disrupt Hewlett-Packard’s ink-jet printing business, how to

create growth in air conditioning, and whether online banking had (or has) the disruptive

potential to create a new-growth business.

Dimension

Targeted

performance of

the product or

service

Targeted

customers or

market

application

Impact on the

required business

model (processes

and cost

structure)

Table 1-1:

Distinguishing Characteristics of Sustaining vs. Low-End and New-Market Disruptions

Sustaining

Innovations

Results in

performance

improvement in

attributes most

valued by the

industry’s

mainstream

customers. These

improvements may be

incremental or

breakthrough in

character.

The most attractive

(i.e., profitable)

customers in the

who are willing to

pay for improved

performance.

Improves or

maintains profit

margins by exploiting

the existing processes

and cost structure,

and making better use

of current competitive

advantages.

oes tomers:

w alonwead of the

mainstream markets omainsir am tharket. ”

Low-end

disruptions

Technology yields

products that are

good enough along

the traditional

metrics of

performance at the

low end of the

mainstream market.

Utilizes a new

operating and / or

financial approach

—a different

combination of

lower gross profit

margins and higher

asset utilization that

can earn attractive

returns at the

discount prices

required to win

business at the low

end of the market.

New Market

Disruptions

Results in lower

performance in

“traditional”

attributes, but

improved

performance in new

attributes — typically

simplicity and

convenience,

Business model must

make money at

lower price per unit