SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Steel Industry Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how steel minimills expanded into higher-margin products like angle iron and structural beams to achieve profitability, despite initial skepticism from industry experts.
KEYWORDS: steel industry, minimill strategy, disruptive innovation, product expansion, profit margins
---

survival, but not profitability, in a commodity such as rebar.’

Soon, however, the minimills looked up-market, and what they saw there spelled relief. If

they could just figure out how to make bigger and better steel—shapes like angle iron and thicker

bars and rods—they could roll tons of money, because in that tier of the market, as suggested in

figure 1-2, the integrated mills were earning gross margins of about 12 percent—nearly double

the margins that they had been able to earn in rebar. That market was also twice as big as the

rebar segment, accounting for about 8 percent of industry tonnage. As the minimills figured out

how to make bigger and better steel and attacked that tier of the market, the integrated mills were

almost relieved to be rid of the bar and rod business as well. It was a dog-eat-dog commodity

compared with their higher-margin products, whereas for the minimills, it was an attractive

opportunity compared with their lower-margin rebar. So as the minimills expanded their capacity

to make angle iron and thicker bars and rods, the integrated mills shut their lines down or

reconfigured them to make more profitable products. With a 20 percent cost advantage, the

minimills enjoyed significant profits in competition against the integrated mills until 1984, when

they finally succeeded in driving the last integrated mill out of the bar and rod market. Once

again, the minimills reaped their reward: With low-cost minimill pitted against low-cost

minimill, the price of bar and rod collapsed by 20 percent, and they could no longer earn

attractive profits. What could they do?

Figure 1.2: The Disruptive Attack of the Steel Minimills

ry %_ of tons

25-30% , *.

Gross mar!

55%

Sheet steel

Steel Quality

22%

Structural Steel

8%

Angle iron; b

MN

>

1975 1980 4985 4990 Time

Continued up-market movement into structural beams appeared to be the next obvious

answer. Gross margins in that sector were a whopping 18 percent, and the market was three

times as large as the bar and rod business. Most industry technologists thought minimills would

be unable to roll structural beams. Many of the properties required to meet the specifications for

steel used in building and bridge construction were imparted to the steel in the rolling processes

of big integrated mills, and you just couldn’t get those properties in minimills’ abbreviated

1-5

facilities. What the technical experts didn’t count on, however, was how desperately motivated

the minimills would be to solve that problem, because it was the only way they could make

attractive money. Minimills achieved extraordinarily clever innovations as they stretched from

angle iron to I-beams—things such as Chaparral Steel’s dog-bone mold in its continuous caster,

which no one had imagined could be done. Although you could never have predicted what the

technical solution would be, you could predict with perfect certainty that the minimills were

powerfully motivated to figure it out. Necessity remains the mother of invention.

At the beginning of their invasion into structural beams, the biggest that the minimills

could roll were little six-inch beams of the sort that under-gird mobile homes. They attacked the

low end of the structural beam market, and again the integrated mills were almost relieved to be

rid of it. It was a dog-eat-dog commodity compared with their other higher-margin products

where focused investment might bring more attractive volume. To the minimills, in contrast, it

was an attractive product compared with the margins they were earning on rebar and angle iron.

So as the minimills expanded their capacity to roll structural beams, the integrated mills shut

their structural beam mills down in order to focus on more profitable sheet steel products. With a

20 percent cost advantage, the minimills enjoyed significant profits as long as they could

compete against the integrated mills. Then in the mid-1990s, when they finally succeeded in

driving the last integrated mill out of the structural beam market, pricing again collapsed. Once

again, the reward for victory was the end of profit.

The sequence repeated itself when the leading minimill, Nucor, attacked the sheet steel

business. Its market capitalization now dwarfs that of the largest integrated steel company, US

Steel. Bethlehem Steel is bankrupt at the time of this writing.

This is not a history of bungled steel company management. It is a story of rational

managers facing the innovator’s dilemma: Should we invest to protect the least profitable end of

our business, so that we can retain our least loyal, most price-sensitive customers? Or should we

invest to strengthen our position in the most profitable tiers of our business, with customers who

reward us with premium prices for better products?

The executives who confront this dilemma come in all varieties: timid, feisty, analytical,

and action-driven. In an unstructured world their actions might be unpredictable. But as large

industry incumbents, they encounter powerful and predictable forces that motivate them to flee

rather than fight when attacked from below. That is why shaping a business idea into a disruption

is an effective strategy for beating an established competitor. Disruption.w:

mucheasier to'beat competitors when they-are-motivated-to flee-rather.than fight:

The forces that propel well-managed companies up-market are a/ways at work, in every

company in every industry. Whether or not entrant firms have disrupted the established leaders

yet, the forces are at work, leading predictably in one direction. It is not just a phenomenon of

“technology companies” such as those involved in microelectronics, software, photonics, or

biochemistry. Indeed, when we use the term technology in this book, it means the process that

any company uses to convert inputs of labor, materials, capital, energy, and information into

outputs of greater value-For-the Purpose: .of.predictably, creating..growth,..treating “high, tech’’.as-

#different..from:«low,..tech?isnot: Y.. d} Every company~has

technology, and each is subject to these fundamental forces.

1-6

The Role of Sustaining Innovation in Generating Growth

gairist“thevaggressive-pursuit of Sustaining.,

innovation. Several other insightful books offer management techniques to help companies excel

in sustaining innovations—and their contribution is important.® Almost always a host of similar