SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruption and Commoditization in Business
SUMMARY: This text analyzes how government securities, financial services, and product assembly are being disrupted and commoditized, requiring companies to adapt their strategies.
KEYWORDS: disruption, commoditization, value chain, brand strategy, business transformation
---

government securities can now even auction their securities to institutional investors within

Bloomberg’s proprietary system. Back-end suppliers such as First Data and State Street enjoy a

similar position vis-a-vis commercial banks. Venerable Wall Street institutions are being

disrupted and hollowed out—and they don’t even realize it because outsourcing the asset-

5-9

intensive back end is a compelling mandate that feels good once the front end has become

modular and commoditized.

Core competence, as it is used by many managers, is a dangerously inward-looking

notion. Competitiveness is far more about doing what customers value than doing what you think

you're good at. And staying competitive as the basis of competition shifts necessarily requires a

willingness and ability to learn new things rather than cling hopefully to the sources of past

glory. The challenge for incumbent companies is to rebuild their ships while at sea, rather than

dismantling themselves plank by plank while someone else builds a new, faster boat with what

they cast overboard as detritus.

What can growth-hungry managers do in situations like this? In many ways, the process

is inevitable. Assemblers of modular products must, over time, shed assets in order to reduce

costs and improve returns—financial market pressure leaves managers with few alternatives.

However, knowing that this is likely to happen gives those same managers the opportunity to

own or acquire, and manage as separate growth-oriented businesses, the component or subsystem

suppliers that are positioned to eat their way up the value chain. This is the essence of skating to

where the money will be.'*

Good Enough, Not Good Enough, and the Value of Brands

Executives who seek to avoid commoditization often rely on the strength of their brands

to sustain their profitability—but brands become commoditized and de-commoditized, too.

Brands are most valuable when they are created at the stages of the value-added chain where

things aren’t yet good enough. When customers aren’t yet certain whether a product’s

performance will be satisfactory, a well-crafted brand can step in and close some of the gap

between what customers need and what they fear they might get if they buy the product from a

supplier of unknown reputation. The role of a good brand in closing this gap is apparent in the

price premium that branded products are able to command in some situations. For similar logic,

however, the ability of brands to command premium prices tends to atrophy when the

performance of a class of products from multiple suppliers is manifestly more than adequate.

When overshooting occurs, the ability to command attractive profitability through a

valuable brand often migrates to those points in the value-added chain where things have flipped

into a not-yet-good-enough situation. These often will be the performance-defining subsystems

within the product, or at the retail interface when it is the speed, simplicity, and convenience of

getting exactly what you want that is not good enough. These shifts define the and opportunities

in branding.

For example, in the early decades of the computer industry, investment in complex and

unreliable mainframe computer systems was an unnerving task for most managers. Because

IBM’s servicing capability was unsurpassed, the brand of IBM had the power to command price

premiums of 30 to 40 percent, compared with comparable equipment. No corporate IT director

got fired for buying IBM. Hewlett-Packard’s brand commanded similar premiums.

How did the brands of Intel and Microsoft Windows subsequently steal the valuable

branding power from IBM and Hewlett-Packard in the 1990s? It happened when computers

came to pack good-enough functionality and reliability for mainstream business use, and

modular, industry-standard architectures became predominant in those tiers of the market. At that

point, the microprocessor inside and the operating system became not good enough, and the

locus of the powerful brands migrated to those new locations.

The migration of branding power in a market that is composed of multiple tiers is a

process, not an event. Accordingly, the brands of companies with proprietary products typically

create value mapping upward from their position on the improvement trajectory—toward those

customers who still are not satisfied with the functionality and reliability of the best that is

available. But mapping downward from that same point—toward the world of modular products

where speed, convenience, and responsiveness drive competitive success—the power to create

profitable brands migrates away from the end-use product, toward the subsystems and the

channel.

This has happened in heavy trucks. There was a time when the valuable brand, Mack,

was on the truck itself. Truckers paid a significant premium for Mack the bulldog on the hood.

Mack achieved its preeminent reliability through its interdependent architecture and extensive

vertical integration. As the architectures of large trucks have become modular, however,

purchasers have come to care far more whether there is a Cummins or Caterpillar engine inside

than whether the truck is assembled by Paccar, Navistar, or Freightliner.

Apparel is another industry in which the power to brand has begun to migrate to a

different stage of the value-added chain. As elsewhere, it has happened because a changed basis

of competition has redefined what is not good enough. A generation ago most of the valuable

brands were on the products. Levi’s brand jeans and Gant brand shirts, for example, enjoyed

strong and profitable market shares because many of the competing products were not nearly as

sturdily made. These branded products were sold in department stores, which trumpeted their

exclusive ability to sell the best brands in clothing.

Over the past fifteen years, however, the quality of clothing from a wide range of

manufacturers has become assured, as producers in low-labor-cost countries have improved their

capabilities to produce high-quality fabrics and clothing. The basis of competition in the apparel

industry has changed as a consequence. Specialized retailers have stolen a significant share of

market from the broad-line department stores because their focused merchandise mix allows the

customers they target to find what they want more quickly and conveniently. What is not good