SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Distributed Storage Technology
SUMMARY: The text discusses the disruptive impact of distributed storage technologies, such as network-attached appliances, on centralized storage systems.
KEYWORDS: distributed storage, network-attached appliances, disruptive innovation, centralized storage, technological disruption
---

Network relative to the centralized storage systems supplied by companies like EMC. Some of these distributed

Appliance networked storage are so simple to augment that an office assistant can simply “snap” an additional storage

1-23

server onto a network.

Wireless Cellular and digital wireless phones have been on a disruptive path against wireline phones for 25 years.

Telephony Initially they were large, power-hungry car phones with spotty efficacy; but gradually have improved to the

point where, by some estimates, nearly one-fifth of mobile telephone users have chosen to “cut the cord” and

do without wireline telephone service. The viability of the wireline long distance business is now in

jeopardy,

Xerox Photocopying has been a new-market disruption relative to offset printing, enabling non-printers to make

smaller volumes of copies in the convenience of their workplace. Xerox’s initial machines were so expensive

and complicated that they were housed in corporate photocopy centers manned by technicians,

Notes

1. We mentioned in the introduction that in early stages of theory building, the best that

scholars can do is suggest categories that are defined by the attributes of the phenomena.

Such studies are important stepping stones in the path of progress. One such important

book is Richard Foster, Innovation: The Attacker’s Advantage (New York: Summit

Books, 1986). Another study predicted that the leaders will fail when an innovation

entails development of completely new technological competencies. See Michael L.

Tushman and Philip Anderson, “Technological Discontinuities and Organizational

Environments,” Administrative Science Quarterly 31 (1986). The research of MIT

Professor James M. Utterback and his colleagues on dominant designs has been

particularly instrumental in moving this body of theory toward circumstance-based

categorization. See, for example, James M. Utterback and William J. Abernathy, “A

Dynamic Model of Process and Product Innovation” Omega 33, no. 6 (1975): 639-656;

and Clayton M. Christensen, Fernando F. Suarez, and James M. Utterback, “Strategies

for Survival in Fast-Changing Industries,” Management Science 44, no.12 (2001): s207-

$2202. Demanding customers are those customers who are willing to pay for increases on

some dimension of performance—faster speeds, smaller sizes, better reliability, and so

on. Less-demanding or undemanding customers are those customers who would rather

make a different trade-off, accepting less performance (slower speeds, larger sizes, less

reliability, and so on) in exchange for commensurately lower prices. We depict these

trajectories as straight lines because empirically, when charted on semi-long graph paper,

they in fact are straight, suggesting that our ability to utilize improvement increases at an

exponential pace—though a pace that is shallower than the trajectory of technological

rOgress.

After watching students and managers read, interpret, and talk about this distinction

between sustaining and disruptive technologies, we have observed a stunningly common

human tendency to take a new concept, new data, or new way of thinking and morph it so

that it fits one’s existing mental models. Hence, many people have equated our use of the

term sustaining innovation with their preexisting frame of “incremental” innovation, and

they have equated the term disruptive technology with the words radical, breakthrough,

out-of-the-box, or different. They then conclude that disruptive ideas (as they define the

term) are good and merit investment. We regret that this happens, because our findings

relate to a very specific definition of disruptiveness, as stated in our text here. It is for this

reason that in this book we have substituted the term disruptive innovation for the term

disruptive technology—to minimize the chance that readers will twist the concept to fit

into what we believe is an incorrect way of categorizing the circumstances.

1-24

4

a ‘s Dilemma notes that the only times that established companies succeeded

\_HBiice, IBM was able to remain atop its industry when minicomputers disrupte

in staying atop their industries when confronted by disruptive technologies were when the

established firms created a completely separate organization and gave it an unfettered

charter to build a completely new business with a completely new business model.

mainframes because it competed in the minicomputer market with a different business

unit. And when the personal computer emerged, IBM addressed that disruption by

creating an autonomous business unit in Florida. Hewlett-Packard remained the leader in

printers for personal computing because it created a division to make and sell ink-jet

printers that was completely independent from its printer division in Boise, which made

and sold laser jet printers. Since publication of The Jnnovator’s Dilemma, a number of

companies that were faced with disruption have succeeded in becoming leaders in the

wave of disruption coming at them by setting up separate organizational units to address

the disruption. Charles Schwab became the leading online broker; Teradyne, the maker of

semiconductor test equipment, became the leader in PC-based testers; and Intel

introduced its Celeron chip, which reclaimed the low end of the microprocessor market.

We hope that as more established companies learn to address disruptions through

independent business units when faced with disruptive opportunities, the odds that

historically were overwhelmingly favorable to entrant firms and their venture capital

backers will become more favorable to established leaders who seek to create new-

growth opportunities.

An exception to this statement is found in Japan, where a couple of integrated mills have

subsequently acquired existing minimill companies.

The economists’ simple notion that price is determined at the intersection of supply and

demand curves explains this phenomenon. Price gravitates to the cash cost of the

marginal, or highest-cost, producer whose capacity is required for supply to meet the

quantity demanded. When the marginal producers were high-cost integrated mills,

minimills could make money in rebar. When the marginal, highest-cost producers were

minimills, then the price of rebar collapsed. The same mechanism destroyed the

temporary profitability to the minimills of each subsequent tier of the market, as

described in the text that follows.

That cost reduction rarely creates competitive advantage is argued persuasively in

Michael Porter, “What Is Strategy?” Harvard Business Review, November—December

1996, 61~78.

We recommend in particular Steven C. Wheelwright and Kim B. Clark, Revolutionizing

New Product Development (New York: The Free Press, 1992); Stefan Thomke,