SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The text discusses how disruptive innovation and moving upmarket can boost profit margins for companies, and the importance of targeting markets that established firms are motivated to ignore.
KEYWORDS: disruptive innovation, profit margins, business strategy, upmarket migration, value network
---

higher price points, much of the increment in pricing falls to the bottom line—and it continues to

fall there as long as the disruptor can keep moving up, competing at the margin against the

higher-cost disruptee. When a company tries to take a higher-cost business model down-market

to sell products at lower price points, almost none of the incremental revenue will fall to its

bottom line. It gets absorbed into overheads. This is why, as we discuss in chapter 6, established

firms that hope to capture the growth created by disruption need to do so from within an

1-8

autonomous business with a cost structure that offers as much headroom as possible for

subsequent profitable migration up-market.

Moving up the trajectory into successively higher-margin tiers of the market and

shedding less-profitable products at the low end is something that all good managers must do in

order to keep their margins strong and their stock price healthy. Standing still is not an option,

because firms that stop moving up find themselves in a rebar-esque situation, slugging it out with

hard-to-differentiate products against competitors whose costs are comparable. |?

innovator’s solution. It does not guarantee success, but. it sure helps: The Innovator’s Dilemma

showed that following a strategy of disruption increased the odds of creating a successful growth

business from 6 to 37 percent.’ Because the established company’s course of action is mandated

so clearly, it is also clear what executives who seek to create new-growth businesses should do:

Target products and markets that the established companies are motivated to ignore or run away

from. Many of the most profitable growth trajectories in history have been initiated by disruptive

innovations.

Two Types of Disruption

For the sake of simplicity, The Innovator’s Dilemma presented the disruptive innovation

diagram in only two dimensions. In reality, there are two different types of disruptions, which

can best be visualized by adding a third axis to the disruption diagram, as shown in figure 1-3.

The vertical and horizontal axes are as before: the performance of the product on the vertical

axis, with time plotted on the horizontal dimension. The third axis represents new customers and

new contexts for consumption.

Our original dimensions—time and performance—define a particular market application

in which customers purchase and use a product or service. In geometric terms, this application

and set of customers reside in a plane of competition and consumption, which The Innovator’s

Dilemma called a value network. A value network is the context within which a firm establishes

a cost structure and operating processes and works with suppliers and channel partners in order

to respond profitably to the common needs of a class of customers. Within a value network, each

firm’s competitive strategy, and particularly its cost structure and its choices of markets and

customers to serve, determines its perceptions of the economic value of an innovation. These

perceptions, in turn, shape the rewards and threats that firms expect to experience through

disruptive versus sustaining innovations."

The third dimension that extends toward us in the diagram represents new contexts of

consumption and competition, which are new value networks. These constitute either new

customers who previously lacked the money or skills to buy and use the product, or different

situations in which a product can be used—enabled by improvements in simplicity, portability,

and product cost. For each of these new value networks, a vertical axis can be drawn

representing a product’s performance as it is defined in that context (which is a different measure

from what is valued in the original value network).

1-9

Figure 1.3: Two Types of Disruptive Innovations

Sustaining strategy:

la Bring a better product into

é le-€_an established market

Performance

asuge

rn ress ©

ers WN

“ cyst0T sires

Of Performance

\

.

Different

——

Time

is Exsilng Plage

2. crsg Pegers

{ ret nat w Anon a

“aL Counpet” consutPe

Ao

e

gah

oo Time

Different value networks can emerge at differing distances from the original one along

the third dimension of the disruption diagram. In the following discussion, we will refer to

disruptions that create a new value network on the third axis as new-market disruptions. In

contrast, /ow-end disruptions are those that attack the least-profitable and most overserved

customers at the low end of the original value network.

New=Market Disruptions”

We say that new-market disruptions compete with “nonconsumption” because new-

market disruptive products are so much more affordable to own and simpler to use that they

enable a whole new population of people to begin owning and using the product, and to do so in

a more convenient setting. The personal computer and Sony’s first battery-powered transistor

pocket radio were new-market disruptions, in that their initial customers were new consumers—

they had not owned or used the prior generation of products and services. Canon’s desktop

photocopiers were also a new-market disruption, in that they enabled people to begin

conveniently making their own photocopies right in their offices, rather than taking their

originals to the corporate high-speed photocopy center where a technician had to run the job for

them. When Canon made photocopying so convenient, people ended up making a Jot more

copies. New-market disruptors’ challenge is to create a new value network, where it is non-

consumption, not the incumbent, that must be overcome.

Although new-market disruptions initially compete against non-consumption in their

unique value network, as their performance improves they ultimately become good enough to

pull customers out of the original value network into the new one, starting with the least-

demanding tier. The disruptive innovation doesn’t invade the mainstream market; rather, it pulls

customers out of the mainstream market into the new one because these customers find it more

convenient to use the new product.

feels good to the leading firms, because as they move up-market in their own world, for a time

they are replacing the low-margin revenues that they lose to the disruptors with higher-margin

revenues.