SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation
SUMMARY: The text analyzes the potential for Xerox to disrupt Hewlett-Packard's printer business through a low-end or new-market disruption strategy.
KEYWORDS: disruptive innovation, low-end disruption, new-market disruption, printer industry, Xerox, Hewlett-Packard
---

can earn attractive

returns at the

discount prices

required to win

business at the low

end of the market.

New Market

Disruptions

Results in lower

performance in

“traditional”

attributes, but

improved

performance in new

attributes — typically

simplicity and

convenience,

Business model must

make money at

lower price per unit

sold, and at unit

production volumes

that initially will be

small emerging

market. Gross

margin dollars per

unit sold will be

significantly lower.

Could Xerox Disrupt Hewlett-Packard?

We don’t actually know if Xerox has considered the possibility of creating a new

business of the sort we will examine here, and we use the companies’ names only to make the

example more vivid. We’ve based this scenario solely on information from public sources.

Xerox reportedly has developed outstanding ink-jet printing technology. What can it do with it?

It could attempt to leapfrog Hewlett-Packard by making the best ink-jet printer on the market.

Even if it could make a better printer, however, Xerox would be fighting a battle of sustaining

technology against a company with superior resources and more at stake. HP would win that

fight. But could Xerox craft a disruptive strategy for this technology? We’ll test the conditions

for a low-end strategy first.

To determine whether this strategy is viable, Xerox’s managers should test whether

customers in the lowest market tiers might be willing to buy a “good enough” printer that is

cheaper than prevailing products.”! At the highest tier of the market, customers seem willing to

pay significantly more for a faster printer that produces sharper images. However, consumers in

the less-demanding tiers are becoming increasingly indifferent to improvements. It is likely they

would be interested in lower-cost alternatives. So the first question gets an affirmative answer.

The next question is whether Xerox could define a business model that could generate

attractive returns at the discounted prices required to win business at the low end. The

possibilities here don’t look good. HP and other printer companies already outsource the

fabrication and assembly of components to the lowest-cost sources in the world. HP makes its

money selling ink cartridges—whose fabrication also is outsourced to low-cost suppliers. Xerox

could enter the market by selling ink cartridges at lower prices, but unless it could define an

overhead cost structure and business processes that would allow it to turn assets faster, Xerox

could not sustain a strategy of low-end disruption.”

This means we’ll need to evaluate the potential for a new-market disruption—competing

against non-consumption. Is there a large, untapped population of computer owners who don’t

have the money or skill to buy and use a printer? Probably not. Hewlett-Packard already

competed successfully against non-consumption when it launched its easy-to-use, inexpensive

ink-jet printers.

What about enticing existing printer owners to buy more printers, by enabling

consumption in a new, more convenient context? Now, this might be achievable. Documents

created on notebook computers are not easy to print. Notebook users have to find a stationary

printer and connect to it either over a network or a printer cable, or they must transfer the file via

removable media to a computer that is connected to a printer. If Xerox incorporated a

lightweight, inexpensive printer into the base or spine of a notebook computer so that people on

the go could get hard copies when and where they needed them, the company could probably

win customers even if the printer wasn’t as good as a stationary ink-jet printer. Only Xerox’s

engineers could determine whether the idea is technologically feasible. But as a strategy, this

would pass the litmus tests.

If Xerox attempted this, we would expect HP to ignore this new-market disruption at the

outset because the market would be much smaller than the stationary printer market. HP’s printer

business is huge, and the company needs large sources of new revenue to sustain its growth. To

1-16

trap Hewlett-Packard in an innovator’s dilemma, Xerox should develop a business model that’s

attractive to Xerox but unattractive to the managers of HP and other leading established printer

companies. This might entail pricing ink cartridges for embedded notebook printers low enough

that the executives of HP’s ink jet printer business would find the market unattractive relative to

investments they might make to move up-market in search of the higher profits they could find

by competing against higher-cost stationary laser printers.

Conditions for Growth in Air Conditioners

The window-mounted air conditioner market is widely known to be mature, dominated

by giants such as Carrier and Whirlpool. Could a company like General Electric wallop them?

We would predict GE’s defeat if it tried to enter this market with a quieter product that offered

more features and better energy efficiency.”? Is a low-end disruption viable? Our sense is that

there are overserved customers at the low end of the existing market. They signal their

overservedness by opting for the least-expensive models they can find, unwilling to pay premium

prices for the alternative products that are available to them. GE might expand its already

substantial manufacturing operations in China, making air conditioners for export to developed

economies. This might bring modest but temporary success, because after the established

companies respond by setting up their own manufacturing operations in China, GE would find

itself locked in a battle with competitors whose costs are comparable and whose distribution and

service infrastructure are strong, and where the targeted customers already have manifested an

unwillingness to pay premium prices for better products. Employing low-cost labor constitutes a

low-cost business model only until competitors avail themselves of the same option.

How about a new-market disruption, however? There are hundreds of millions of non-

consumers of residential air conditioning in China, who have been blocked from that market

because the power-hungry, expensive machines that historically have been available don’t fit in

the average family’s pocketbook or apartment. If GE could design a $49.95 product that would

easily slip into the window of a cramped Shanghai apartment and reduce the temperature and