SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Product Disruption and Commoditization
SUMMARY: The text discusses how successful companies can become vulnerable to disruption and commoditization when they overshoot their customers' needs.
KEYWORDS: product architecture, cost advantages, commoditization, market disruption, customer needs
---

leftmost side of the disruption diagram, the companies that are most successful are integrated

companies that design and assemble the not-good-enough end-use products. They make

attractive profits for two reasons. First, the interdependent, proprietary architecture of their

products makes differentiation straightforward. Second, the high ratio of fixed to variable costs

that often is inherent in the design and manufacture of architecturally interdependent products

creates steep economies of scale that give larger competitors strong cost advantages and create

formidable entry barriers against new competitors.

This is why, for example, IBM, as the most integrated competitor in the mainframe

computer industry, held a 70 percent market share but made 95 percent of the industry’s nrofits:

It had proprietary products, strong cost advantages, and high entry barriers. For the same vasons,

from the 1950s through the 1970s, General Motors, with about 55 percent of the U.S. automobile

market, gammered 80 percent of the industry’s profits. Most of the firms that were suppliers to

IBM and General Motors, in contrast, had to make do with subsistence profits year after year.

These firms’ experiences are typical. Making highly differentiable products with strong cost

advantages is a license to print money, and lots of it?

We must emphasize that the reason many companies don’t reach this nirvana or remain

there for long is that it is the not-good-enough circumstance that enables managers to offer

products with proprietary architectures that can be made with strong cost advantages versus

competitors. When that circumstance changes—when the dominant, profitable companies

overshoot what their mainstream customers can use-—then this game can no longer be played,

and the tables begin to turn. Customers will not pay still-higher prices for products they already

deem too good. Before long, modularity rules, and commoditization sets in. When the relevant

dimensions of your product’s performance are determined not by you but by the subsystems that

you procure from your suppliers, it becomes difficult to earn anything more than subsistenc

returns in a product category that used to make a lot of money. When your world become./

modular, you’ll need to look elsewhere in the value chain to make any serious money.

The natural and inescapable process of commoditization occurs in six steps:

1. As anew market coalesces, a company develops a proprietary product that, while

iN Ja not good enough, comes closer to satisfying customers’ needs than any of its

competitors. It does this through a proprietary architecture, and earns attractive

profit margins.

Yan 2. As the company strives to keep ahead of its direct competitors, it eventually

U overshoots the functionality and reliability that customers in lower tiers of the

market can utilize.

3. This precipitates a change in the basis of competition in those tiers, which. . .

5-2

4... .precipitates an evolution toward modular architectures, which. . .

5... facilitates the dis-integration of the industry, which in turn. . .

6... .makes it very difficult to differentiate the performance or costs of the product

versus those of competitors, who have access to the same components and assemble

according to the same standards. This condition begins at the bottom of the market,

where functional overshoot occurs first, and then moves up inexorably to affect the

higher tiers.

Note that it is overshooting—the more-than-good-enough circumstance—that connects

disruption and the phenomenon of commoditization. Disruption and commoditization can be

seen as two sides of the same coin. A company that finds itself in a more-than-good-enough

circumstance simply can’t win: Either disruption will steal its markets, or commoditization will

steal its profits. Most incumbents eventually end up the victim of both, because, although the

pace of commoditization varies by industry, it is inevitable, and nimble new entrants rarely miss

an opportunity to exploit a disruptive foothold.

There can still be prosperity around the corner, however. The attractive profits of the

future are often to be earned elsewhere in the value chain, in different stages or layers of added

value. That’s because the process of commoditization initiates a reciprocal process of de-

commoditization. Ironically, this de-commoditization—with the attendant ability to earn lots of

money~—occurs in places in the value chain where attractive profits were hard to attain in the

past: in the formerly modular and undifferentiable processes, components, or subsystems.*

To visualize the reciprocal process, remember the steel minimills from chapter 1. As long

as the minimills were competing against integrated mills in the rebar market, they made a lot of

money because they had a 20 percent cost advantage relative to the integrated mills. But as soon

as they drove the last high-cost competitor out of the rebar market, the low-cost minimills found

themselves slugging it out against equally low-cost minimills in a commodity market, and

competition among them caused pricing to collapse. The assemblers of modular products

generally receive the same reward for victory as the minimills did whenever they succeed in

driving the higher-cost competitors and their proprietary architectures out of a tier in their

market: The victorious disruptors are left to slug it out against equally low-cost disruptors who

are assembling modular components procured from a common supplier base. Lacking any basis

for competitive differentiation, only subsistence levels of profit remain. A low-cost strategy

works only as long as there are higher-cost competitors left in the market.>

The only way that modular disruptors can keep profits healthy is to carry their low-cost

business models up-market as fast as possible so that they can keep competing at the margin

against higher-cost makers of proprietary products. Assemblers of modular products do this by

finding the best performance- defining components and subsystems and incorporating them in

their products faster than anyone else.° The assemblers need the very best performance-defining

components in order to race up-market where they can make money again. Their demand for

improvements in performance-defining components, as a result, throws the suppliers of those

components back to the not-good-enough side of the disruption diagram.

5-3

Competitive forces consequently compel suppliers of these performance-defining

components to create architectures that, within the subsystems, are increasingly interdependent