SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Modular Architectures and Industry Integration
SUMMARY: The text discusses how modular architectures can lead to the decline of integrated firms and the rise of non-integrated firms, but circumstances can drive reintegration in the industry.
KEYWORDS: modular architectures, industry integration, competitive advantage, disruptive innovation
---

nonintegrated firms can now outcompete the integrated firms that had dominated

the industry. Whereas integration at one point was a competitive necessity, it later

becomes a competitive disadvantage.!?

Figure 4.2

Impact of Modular Architectures on the Degree of Integration in the Computer Industry

Materials

Components

Figure 4-2 is simplified, in that the integrated business model did not disappear

overnight—rather, it became less dominant as the trajectory of performance improvement passed

through each tier of each market and the modular model gradually became more dominant.

4]

We emphasize that the circumstances of performance gaps and performance surpluses

drive the viability of these strategies of architecture and integration. This means, of course, that if

the circumstances change again, the strategic approach must also change. Indeed, after 1990

there has been some reintegration in the computer industry. We describe one factor that drives

reintegration in the next section, and return to it in chapter S.

The Drivers of Reintegration

Because the trajectory of technological improvement typically outstrips the ability of

customers in any given tier of the market to utilize it, the general current flows from

interdependent architectures and integrated companies toward modular architectures and

nonintegrated companies. But remember, customers’ needs change too. Usually this happens at a

relatively slower pace, as suggested by the dotted lines on the disruption diagram. On occasion

there can be a discontinuous shift in the functionality that customers demand, essentially shifting

the dotted line in figure 4-1 upward. This flips the industry back toward the left side of the

diagram and resets the clock into an era in which integration once again is the source of

competitive advantage.

For example, in the early 1980s Apple Computer’s products employed a proprietary

architecture involving extensive interdependence within the software and across the hardware—

software interface. By the mid-1980s, however, a population of specialized firms such as

WordPerfect and Lotus, whose products plugged into Microsoft’s DOS operating system through

a well-defined interface, had arisen to dethrone Apple’s dominance in software. Then in the early

1990s, the dotted lines of functionality that customers needed in PC software seemed to shift up

as customers began demanding to transfer graphics and spreadsheet files into word processing

documents, and so on. This created a performance gap, flipping the industry to the not-good-

enough side of the world where fitting interdependent pieces of the system together became

competitively critical again.

In response, Microsoft interdependently knitted its Office suite of products (and later its

Web browser) into its Windows operating system. This helped it stretch so much closer to what

customers needed than could the population of focused firms that the nonintegrated software

companies, including WordPerfect and Lotus’s 123 spreadsheet, vaporized very quickly.

Microsoft’s dominance did not arise from monopolistic malfeasance. Rather, its integrated value

chain under not-good-enough conditions enabled it to make products whose performance came

closer to what customers needed than could nonintegrated competitors under those conditions."

Today, however, things may be poised to flip again. As computing becomes more

Internet-centric, operating systems with modular architectures (such as Linux), and modular

programming languages (such as Java) constitute new-market disruptions relative to Microsoft.

This modularity is enabling a population of specialized firms to begin making incursions into this

industry.

In a similar way, fifteen years ago in optical telecommunications the bandwidth available

over a fiber was more than good enough for voice communication; as a consequence, the

industry structure was horizontally stratified, not vertically integrated. Corning made the optical

fiber, Siemens cabled it, and other companies made the multiplexers, the amplifiers, and so on.

As the screams for more bandwidth intensified in the late 1990s, the dotted line in figure 4-1

shifted up, and the industry flipped into a not-good-enough situation. Corning found that it could

not even design its next generation of fiber if it did not interdependently design the amplifier, for

example. It had to integrate across this interface in order to compete, and it did so. Within a few

years, there was more than enough bandwidth over a fiber, and the rationale for being vertically

integrated disappeared again.

The general rule is that companies will prosper when they are integrated across interfaces

in the value chain where performance, however it is defined at that point, is not good enough

relative to what customers require at the next stage of value addition. There are often several of

these points in the complete value-added chain of an industry. This means that an industry will

rarely be completely nonintegrated or integrated. Rather, the points at which integration and

nonintegration are competitively important will predictably shift over time.’? We return to this

notion in greater detail in chapter 5.

Aligning Your Architecture Strategy to Your Circumstances

In a modular world, supplying a component or assembling outsourced components are

both appropriate “solutions.” In the interdependent world of inadequate functionality, attempting

to provide one piece of the system doesn’t solve anybody’s problem. Knowing this, we can

predict the failure or success of a growth business based on managers’ choices to compete with

modular architectures when the circumstances mandate interdependence, and vice versa.

Attempting to Grow a Nonintegrated Business When Functionality Isn’t Good Enough

It’s tempting to think you can launch a new-growth business by providing one piece of a modular

product’s value. Managers often see specialization as a less daunting path to entry than providing

an entire system solution. It costs less and allows the entrant to focus on what it does best,

leaving the rest of the solution to other partners in the ecosystem. This works in the

circumstances in the lower-right portions of the disruption diagram. But the seemingly lower

hurdle often proves illusory and causes many growth ventures to fail when functionality and

reliability are inadequate. Modularity often is not technologically or competitively possible

during the early stages of many disruptions.

To succeed with a nonintegrated, specialist strategy, you need to be certain you’re

competing in a modular world. Three conditions must be met in order for a firm to procure