SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Model Innovation
SUMMARY: Dow Corning's Xiameter business model innovation to sell high-quality silicones at 15% lower prices by minimizing overheads and customization.
KEYWORDS: business model innovation, Dow Corning, Xiameter, commoditization, overhead minimization
---

the same point in time and space in the customer's life. In such instances we would expect the

services or products that might be hired to do these jobs to be integrated. By illustration, stand-alone

gasoline stations and convenience food stores are giving way to integrated facilities that sell both.

Why? The jobs for which junk food and gasoline are hired arise at the same point in time and space.

Similarly, the auto companies’ creation of companies that finance auto purchases is productive

integration.

A Case Study of Business Model Innovation: Dow Coming

We close this note with a brief description of the process of business model innovation that was

executed in an industry not often associated with such events: commodity chemicals. Dow Corning

(DC), a maker of inorganic polymer products called silicones that are used in an extraordinary variety

of applications—ranging from protective coatings to adhesives to shampoos and conditioners. In

about 2000 a strategic review revealed that many experienced DC customers no longer needed the

technical services and sales engineering that DC had been offering all customers at no cost.

Customers that did not need this service increasingly were sourcing their silicones from Asian

manufactures at prices that often were 15%-20% below DC’s. In a business whose profitability was

sensitive to capacity utilization and scale, losing this volume had begun to hurt the company’s over-

all bottom line.

In 2002, Dow Corning CEO Gary Anderson asked Don Sheets to form a team to start a new

business which was named Xiameter. Sheets’ charter: Without compromising on profitability, figure

out a business model that can sell high-quality silicones at 15% lower prices. This was the value

proposition. To reach a 15% lower price point (in a commoditizing material, a huge reduction),

overheads had to be absolutely minimal. Sheets’ team decided that meant customers had to order

from the company’s catalogue of existing, standard products: There could be no custom-engineering.

Only orders of full tank-cars would be accepted. And customers could not talk to a Xiameter

salesperson by phone: All orders had to be placed online. Because high turns of inventory and assets

were critical to achieving comparable profitability with the mainstream business, Xiameter orders

could not be serviced from inventory, customers had to wait until their orders could be shipped from

scheduled production. To minimize overhead Sheets knew he needed confident, knowledgeable

employees who could make fast decisions without hierarchical support. He therefore sought DC

employees who, though team players, didn’t quite fit in the DC culture. When he interviewed

candidates with the needed skills, he asked them to decide before they left the room whether they

would accept the job. The new venture would be low-touch, service averse, and standardized.

Sheets next needed to determine whether this new venture, with its new rules, norms and metrics,

could succeed within the confines of DC’s core enterprise. He set up an experimental war game to

test how existing DC staff and systems would react to the needs of Xiameter’s customer value

proposition. Xiameter was crushed in the simulation, as entrenched habits and existing processes

thwarted attempts to change the game. It was clear that while Xiameter could leverage DC’s

manufacturing capacity, the administrative systems and rules that Xiameter required were so foreign

to DC thinking that, even with the best intentions, attempting to leverage any other DC resources or

processes would destroy that which was required to succeed. The way ahead was clear: Xiameter

required a separate business model, in its own business unit.

A rule that emerged from this simulation was that the only “leveraging” of the resources and

processes of the core DC business that would be allowed was when Xiameter “pulled” them into

Xiameter. DC could not “push” any of its resources or processes onto Xiameter, because the

10

Module Note—What Are Business Models, and How Are They Built? 610-019

motivation for conferring such corporate “gifts” onto Xiameter typically would be to spread

overhead costs.

In a similar vein, when electronics retailer Best Buy acquired Geek Squad (an in-home computer

services and support company) CEO Brad Anderson announced, “Geek Squad bought Best Buy, not

the other way around.” He knew that certain synergies would produce growth for the company, but

sensed that the low margin, high volume, retail mentality of Best Buy could easy suffocate the high-

touch, higher-margin service orientation of Geek Squad. Anderson let Geek Squad pull from Best Buy

only those resources and processes that would help them grow and thrive. No pushing was allowed.

Finally, Anderson and Sheets agreed that they would keep Xiameter’s initial scale small. New

businesses that achieve success typically must make several revisions in the details within the four-

box diagram of their business models before they strive for scale. Careful business model design can

shorten these iterations. But business model innovators must initially focus on learning as much as on

executing. This requires being patient for growth (to allow for learning as the market opportunity

unfolds) but impatient for profit (to be focused on validating as early as possible a working business

model). A profitable business is the best early indication of a viable model.

Xiameter paid back DC’s investment in three months and became a major, transformative success.

Corporate revenues increased nearly 40%, because most of Xiameter’s customers were new to the

company. Far from cannibalizing existing customers, Xiameter has actually supported DC’s core

business, allowing its salespeople to more easily enforce premium pricing for their core offerings

while providing a viable alternative for the price conscious.

11

Chapter 5

Getting the Scope of the Business Right

What activities should a new-growth venture do internally in order to be as

successful as possible as fast as possible, and which should it outsource to a

supplier or a partner? Will success be best built around a proprietary product

architecture, or should the venture embrace modular, open industry standards?

What causes the evolution from closed and proprietary product architectures to