SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Model Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses IBM's business model innovation to disrupt the computing industry by setting up a new business unit, leveraging partnerships, and evolving its own business model.
KEYWORDS: business model innovation, disruptive innovation, value network, IBM, computing industry
---

was also the only maker of minicomputers that became a leader in personal computers. It did this by

setting up yet again a different business unit, in Boca Raton, Florida. This one made computers by the

millions, and sold them at prices of $2,000. Its profit formula required 40% gross margins in the best

of years. As volumes grew, the available margins quickly deteriorated to 25%.

When IBM set up its disruptive business model in Florida to build microprocessor-based

computers, it also proactively constructed an entirely new value network in order to accelerate the

emergence of this disruption. It made a major equity investment in Intel, so that it could build the

capacity to supply the needed microprocessors. It then found a start-up software company in Seattle

Module Note—What Are Business Models, and How Are They Built? 610-019

called Microsoft and gave it a major purchase order; and did the same for Seagate, a small maker of

5.25-inch disk drives in Scotts Valley, CA. Because there were no retailers that could profitably and

competently sell desktop computers, IBM had to set up its own network of retail stores. Had IBM not

been able to establish this entire value network, its disruptive business model might not have

succeeded—or at a minimum, would have taken much longer to become a major success.

Then as the original business models got disrupted, IBM sold off or shut down most of these

hardware business units, as it grew its services and IT consulting business units. IBM, the

corporation, has evolved significantly, even while its business units did not. Almost all other

computer makers, in contrast, did not evolve—because they did not engage successfully in business

model innovation.

When Are There Opportunities for Business Model Innovation?

Many markets can be conceived geographically as a set of concentric circles. Before modern

technology emerges in an industry, activity typically occurs in the largest circle: problems are

addressed where and when they arise in people's lives. The advent of sophisticated high-

performance technology, however, often drives a “centralization” of the industry. This is because the

technology’s earliest manifestations are so expensive and complicated that only people with a lot of

money and a lot of skill can own and use the products, or offer the services. During this phase, people

need to take their problems to a central location, where someone with the requisite expertise and

capital can solve them. The very cost and inconvenience of this centralized structure, however,

typically then spawns a reciprocal process of “decentralization,” in which successive generations of

disruptive innovations make the products and services so much more affordable and so much

simpler, that a larger population of less-skilled and less-wealthy people can own and use them.

As illustrated in Figure C, for centuries in the computing industry we used slide rules (or pens) to

compute wherever the problems arose. The advent of digital computing, however, drove a

centralization of the industry. Mainframe computers cost millions of dollars and could only be run by

highly trained operators. The typical campus or corporation had one mainframe, at most; and we had

to take our problems, in the form of stacks of punched cards, to that central location to have them

solved by experts. The cost and inconvenience of this arrangement, however, then drove a sequence

of disruptive innovations that decentralized the industry again, step by step. The minicomputer

brought computing to corporations’ engineering departments. The desktop computer brought it to

our offices and homes; the notebook put it in our briefcases; and the hand-held brought computing to

our pockets and purses.

Because each step was achieved by making the product simpler and more affordable, it was

generally disruptive relative to the business models of the prior generation of competitors in the

inner circles. Those competitors aggressively pursued sustaining innovations, competing against

direct competitors within their circle—a circle that was characterized by the value proposition,

resources, processes, and profit formulae that comprised their business model. Unless they created

new business models that were attuned to competition in the next wave of “decentralization,”

competitors in the inner circles ultimately found that their customers were drawn away to the more

convenient outer circles, application by application, as the performance of products in those larger

circles became good enough.

610-019 Module Note—What Are Business Models, and How Are They Built?

Figure C Cycles of Centralization and Decentralization in an Industry’s Structure

Source: Casewriters.

Numerous industries—including telecommunications, higher education, retailing, automobiles,

software and steel making—have gone through or are now going through similar cycles of

centralization and decentralization.> Others, such as health care and electricity generation, are poised

to begin the process of decentralization.

Many economists hold to a simplistic view that competition always drives prices down. However,

head-on competition amongst competitors with similar business models in a given circle, in terms of

Figure C, typically drives prices up, as competitors vie to make better and better products that can be

sold for more attractive margins. For example, competition amongst hospitals drives prices up. As

soon as one is licensed to perform transplant surgery, others press for licenses to perform the same

surgery. As soon as one has a PET scanner, everyone needs a PET scanner. When one hospital invests

in a multi-million-dollar surgical robot, all need a robot; and so on. Similar competitive races between

Sony’s Playstation and Microsoft’s X-Box up the sustaining trajectory; and competition amongst elite

universities, mainframe computer makers, hotels, and urban real estate developers typically drives

competitors up the trajectory of sustaining innovation—all in the pursuit of higher margins. Typically

3 Sometimes decentralization at one stage in the value-adding chain is achieved by centralization in an adjacent stage in the

chain. In software, for example, software-as-a-service (SaaS) providers such as Salesforce.com house their software in central

locations, enabling them to “serve” it at lower prices to a larger population of smaller companies, in distributed locations—

companies and locations that previously could not afford licenses to Oracle software. In on-line higher education, as another