SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Product Disruption and Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses how disruptive innovations in products and services can enable new market entrants to compete against established players.
KEYWORDS: product disruption, disruptive innovation, new market entry, competitive advantage
---

dry cleaning is not yet good enough, so the power to build a profitable brand is likely to

reside in the product for some time. What is more, just as Sony’s solid-state electronics

products enabled discount merchandisers to compete against appliance stores, so P&G’s

Dryel gives Wal-Mart a vehicle to move up-market and begin competing against dry

cleaning establishments. P&G is doing the same thing with its introduction of its Crest

brand do-it-yourself teeth whitening system, a new-market disruption of a service that

historically could only be provided by professionals. We thank one of Professor

Christensen’s former students, David Dintenfass, a global brand manager at Procter &

Gamble, for pointing this out to us.

Kec}

of fen

Me fia, te

17.

19.

20.

As we have shared these hypotheses with students, some of the more stylishly dressed

among them have asked whether this applies also to the highest-fashion brands, such as

Gucci, and in product categories such as cosmetics. Those who know us probably have

observed that dressing ourselves in fashionable, branded merchandise just isn’t a job that

we have been trying to get done in our lives. We confess, therefore, to having no intuition

about the world of high fashion. It will probably persist profitably forever. Who are we to

know?

Remaining competitive at the level of the process-defined value chain that the current

auto assemblers dominate is likely to require that they move toward new distribution

structures—an integration of supply chains and customer interfaces in a way that

effectively exploits the modularity of the product itself. How this can be done and its

performance implications are explored at length in the Deloitte Research study “Digital

Loyalty Networks,” available for download at http://www.de.com/research, or upon

request from delresearch@dc.com

Those of our readers who believe in the efficiency of capital markets and the abilities of

investors to diversify their portfolios will see no tragedy in these decisions. After these

divestitures the shareholders of the two auto giants found themselves owning stock in

companies that design and assemble cars, and in companies that supply performance-

enabling subsystems. It is because we are writing this book for the benefit of managers in

firms like General Motors and Ford that we characterize these decisions as unfortunate.

We say “usually” here because there are exceptions (most, but not all, of which prove the

rule). We note in the text of this chapter, for example, that two modular stages of added

value can be juxtaposed—as DRAM memory chips fit in modular personal computers.

And there are instances where two interdependent architectures need to be integrated,

such as when enterprise resource planning software from companies such as SAP needs

to be interleaved into companies’ interdependent business processes. The fact that neither

side is modular and configurable is what makes SAP implementations so technically and

organizationally demanding.

5-20