SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Product Innovation and Disruption
SUMMARY: The text discusses how disruptive innovations in various industries, such as power tools, plastics, financial data and news, beef processing, and photocopiers, transformed their respective markets.
KEYWORDS: disruptive innovation, product development, market disruption, technological change, industry transformation
---

Prior to 1960, hand-held electric tools were heavy and rugged, designed for professionals ~ and very

expensive. B&D introduced a line of plastic-encased tools with universal motors that would only last 25-30

hours of operation ~ which actually was more than adequate for most do-it-yourselfers who drill a few holes

per month. In today’s dollars, B&D brought the cost of these tools down from $150 to $20, enabling a whole

new population to own and use their own tools.

Blended Plastics

Bloomberg LP

These blends of inexpensive polyolefin plastics like polypropylene, sold by firms like Himont, create

composite materials that in many ways share the best properties of their constituent materials. They are

getting better at a stunning rate, disrupting markets that historically had been the province of engineering

polycarbonate plastics made by firms like GE Plastics.

Bloomberg began by providing basic financial data to investment analysts and brokers. It gradually has

improved its data offerings and analysis, and subsequently moved into the financial news business. It has

substantially disrupted Dow Jones and Reuters as a result. More recently it has created its own ECN to

disrupt stock exchanges. Issuers of government securities can auction their initial offerings over the

Bloomberg system, disrupting investment banks,

Boxed beef

The “boxed beef” model of lowa Beef Packers completed the disruption of local butchering operations.

Instead of shipping large sides of beef to local meat cutters for further cutting, IBP cut the beef into finished

1-19

or nearly finished cuts, for placement directly in supermarket cases.

y cuts, Tor pe y ip

Canon

photocopiers

Until the early 1980s when we needed photocopiers, we had to take our originals to the corporate photocopy

center, where a technician ran the job for us. He /ad to be a technician, because the high-speed Xerox

machine in there was very complicated, and needed servicing frequently. When Canon and Ricoh introduced

their countertop photocopiers, they were slow, produced poor-resolution copies, and didn’t enlarge or reduce

or collate. But they were so inexpensive and simple to use that we could afford to put one right around the

corner from our office. At the beginning we still took our high-volume jobs to the copy center. But little by

little Canon improved its machines to the point that today, immediate, convenient access to high-quality, full-

featured copying is almost a constitutional right in most workplaces.

Catalog retailing

Sears, Roebuck and Montgomery Ward took root as catalog retailers - enabling people in rural America to

buy things that historically had not been accessible, Their business model, entailing annual inventory turns

of 4x and gross margins of 30%, was disruptive relative to the model of full-service department stores, which

relied upon 40% gross margins because they turned inventories only 3x annually. Sears and Wards later

moved up-market, building retail stores.

colleges

Concord School

of Law

Charles Schwab | Started in 1975 as one of the first discount brokers. In the late 1990s Schwab created a separate organization

to build an on-line trading business. It was so successful that the company shut down its original

organization of telephone brokers.

Circuit City, Disrupted the consumer electronics departments of full-service and discount department stores, which has

Best Buy sent them up-market into higher-margin clothing.

Cisco Cisco’s router uses packet-switching technology to direct the flow of information over the

telecommunications system, compared to the circuit-switching technology of the established industry leaders

such as Lucent, Siemens and Nortel. The technology divides information into virtual “envelopes” called

packets, and sends them out over the Internet. Each packet might take a different route to the addressed

destination; and when they arrive, the packets are put in the right order and “opened” for the recipient to sec.

Because this process entailed a few seconds’ latency delay, packet switching could not be used for voice

telecommunications. But it was good enough to enable a new market to emerge — data networks, The

technology has improved to the point that today, the latency delay of a packet-switched voice call is almost

imperceptibly slower than that of a circuit-switched call ~ enabling VOIP, or voice-over-Internet-protocol

telephony.

Community In some states, up to 80% of the graduates of reputable four-year state universities took some or all of their

required general education courses at much less expensive community colleges, and then transferred those

credits to the university - which (unconsciously) is becoming a provider of upper-division courses. Some

community colleges have begun offering four-year degrees. Their enrollment is booming, often with non-

traditional students who otherwise would not have taken these courses.

Founded by Kaplan, a unit of the Washington Post Company, this on-line law school has attracted a host of

(primarily) non-traditional students. The school’s accreditation allows its graduates to take the California Bar

exam, and its graduates’ success rate is comparable to those of many other law schools. Many of its students

don’t enroll to become lawyers, however. They want to understand law to help them succeed in other

careers.

Credit scoring

A formulaic method of determining creditworthiness, substituting for the subjective judgments of bank loan

officers. Developed by a Minneapolis firm, Fair Isaac. Used initially to extend Sears and Penny’s in-store

credit cards. As the technology improved, it was used for general credit cards, and then auto, mortgage and

now small business loans.

Dell Computer

Department

Stores

supplies most of the Harvard Business School’s computers.

Dell’s direct-to customer retailing model and its fast-throughput, high asset-turns manufacturing model

allowed it to come underneath Compaq, IBM and Hewlett Packard as a low-end disruptor in personal

computers. Clayton Christensen, the quintessential low-end consumer, wrote his doctoral thesis on a Dell

notebook computer purchased in 1989, because it was the cheapest portable computer on the market.

Because of Dell’s reputation for marginal quality, students needed special permission from Harvard to use

doctoral stipend money to buy a Dell rather than a computer with a more reputable brand. Today Dell

Department stores like Z.C.M.I. in Salt Lake City, Marshall Field in Chicago, and R.H. Macy in New York,