SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation in Retailing
SUMMARY: The text discusses how low-end disruptive innovations, such as discount retailing, have impacted established full-service department stores.
KEYWORDS: low-end disruption, discount retailing, department stores, profit margins, inventory turnover
---

convenient to use the new product.

feels good to the leading firms, because as they move up-market in their own world, for a time

they are replacing the low-margin revenues that they lose to the disruptors with higher-margin

revenues.

We call disruptions that take root at the low end of the original or mainstream value

network /ow-end disruptions. Disruptions such as steel minimills, discount retailing, and the

Korean automakers’ entry into the North American market have been pure low-end disruptions

in that they did not create new markets—they were simply low-cost business models that grew

by picking off the least attractive of the established firms’ customers. Although they are

different, new-market and low-end disruptions both create the same vexing dilemma for

incumbents. New-market disruptions induce incumbents to ignore the attackers, and low-end

disruptions motivate the incumbents to flee the attack.

Low-end disruption has occurred several times in retailing.'® For example, full-service

department stores had a business model that enabled them to turn inventories three times per

year. They needed to earn 40 percent gross margins to make money within their cost structure.

They therefore earned 40 percent three times each year, for a 120 percent annual return on

capital invested in inventory (ROCII). In the 1960s, discount retailers such as Wal-Mart and

Kmart attacked the low end of the department stores’ market—nationally branded hard goods

such as paint, hardware, kitchen utensils, toys, and sporting goods—that were so familiar in use

that they could sell themselves. Customers in this tier of the market were overserved by

department stores, in that they did not need well-trained floor salespeople to help them get what

they needed. The discounters’ business model enabled them to make money at gross margins of

about 23 percent, on average. Their stocking policies and operating processes enabled them to

turn inventories more than five times annually, so that they also earned about 120 percent annual

ROCIL. The discounters did not accept lower levels of profitability—their business model simply

eared acceptable profit through a different formula.'”

It is very hard for established firms nof to flee from a low-end disruptor. Consider, for

example, the choice that executives of full-service department stores had to make when the

discount retailers were attacking the branded hard goods at the low end of department stores’

merchandise mix. Retailers’ critical resource allocation decision is the use of floor or shelf space.

One option for department store executives was to allocate more space to even higher-margin

cosmetics and high-fashion apparel, where gross margins often exceeded 50 percent. Because

1-11

their business model turned inventories three times annually, this option promised 150 percent

ROCIL

The alternative was to defend the branded hard goods businesses, which the discounters

were attacking with prices 20 percent below those of department stores. Competing against the

discounters at those levels would send margins plummeting to 20 percent, which, given the

three-times inventory turns that were on average inherent in their business model, entailed a

ROCIH of 60 percent. It thus made perfect sense for the full-service department stores to flee—to

get out of the very tiers of the market that the discounters were motivated to enter,!®

up ids; combining new-market and low-end approaches, as

depicted by the continuum of the third axis in figure 1-3. Southwest Airlines is actually a hybrid

disruptor, for example. It initially targeted customers who weren’t flying—people who

previously had used cars and buses. But Southwest pulled customers out of the low end of the

major airlines’ value network as well. Charles Schwab is a hybrid disruptor. It stole some

customers from full-service brokers with its discounted trading fees, but it also created new

markets by enabling people who historically were not equity investors—such as students—to

begin owning and trading stocks. '°

Figure 1-4 shows where some of history’s more successful disruptors were positioned

along the continuum of new-market to low-end disruption at their inception. The appendix to this

chapter offers a brief historical explanation of each of the disruptive products or companies listed

on the chart. This is not a complete census of disruptive companies, of course, and their position

on the chart is only approximate. However, the array does convey our sense that disruption is a

primary wellspring of growth. The prevalence of Japanese companies such as Sony, Nippon

Steel, Toyota, Honda, and Canon in the period between 1960 and 1980 and the absence of new

disruptive companies in the 1990s, for example, explain a lot about why Japan’s economy has

stagnated. Many of its most influential companies grew dramatically by disrupting others; but

the structure of Japan’s economic system inhibits the creation of new waves of disruptive growth

that might threaten these same companies today. 20

The chart also shows that disruption is an ongoing force that is always at work—meaning

that disruptors in one generation become disruptees later. The Ford Model T, for example,

created the first massive wave of disruptive growth in automobiles. Toyota, Nissan, and Honda

then created the next wave, and Korean automakers Hyundai and Kia have now begun the third.

AT&T’s wireline long distance business, which disrupted Western Union, is being disrupted by

wireless long distance. Plastics makers such as Dow, DuPont, and General Electric continue to

disrupt steel, even as their low end is being eaten away by suppliers of blended polyolefin

plastics such as Himont.

Figure 1.4: A Sampling of Companies Whose Origins Were in Disruption

. Beef processing

1870 | Kodak (Swift, Armour)

Merrill Lynch = Ford

Department stores

(Marshall Field’s, RH Macy)

Catalog Retailing

(Sears, JC Penny, Mongtomery Ward)

Bell Telephone

Plastics

(DuPont, Dow, ete.)

~1950

Sony Honda motorcycles

Minicomputers MeDonald’s Di t depart tt

nC NE, iscount department stores

~1960 | (PEC, Nooo, Nissan Xerox Black & Decker (K-Mart, Wal-Mart, Target)|

’ consumer power tools

Japanese steel companies

Uluasound soft

Inte] microprocessor Steel minimills

¥ tissue imaging . Credit scoring in

Endoscopic surgery Southwest Airlines consumer lending Boxed beef

ral Flat-panel displays Fidelity (self-service Charles Schwab Vanguard index mutual find: