SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses the potential of disruptive innovation, highlighting the challenges of Internet banking as an example where disruption is unlikely.
KEYWORDS: disruptive innovation, new-market disruption, low-end disruption, Internet banking
---

because the power-hungry, expensive machines that historically have been available don’t fit in

the average family’s pocketbook or apartment. If GE could design a $49.95 product that would

easily slip into the window of a cramped Shanghai apartment and reduce the temperature and

humidity in a ten-foot by ten-foot room with ten amps of current, things might get interesting—

because once GE had a business model that could make money at that price point, taking on the

rest of the up-market world would be easy. Parenthetically, while Western executives are

understandably concerned about the threat that low-cost manufacturing in China poses to them,

our guess is that China’s greatest competitive asset is the unfathomable amount of non-

consumption in its markets, which makes them fertile ground for new-market disruptive

companies of many sorts.

The Potential for Internet Banking

When we ask the test questions about Internet banking, we conclude that disruption using

this technology is not possible. In the first place, there is not a large population of people who

have been unable to open and maintain a bank account because they have lacked the money or

skill. Existing banks’ penetration of this market is high. This rules out a new-market disruption

for Internet banking.

1-17

Second, are there current bank customers at the low end who would be happy to accept a

bank account with fewer privileges and features in order to get the service at a lower price? The

prevalence of advertisements featuring no-fee accounts is a testament that this condition

probably exists. But is it possible to design a business model that would afford a disruptive

online bank attractive profits at the discount prices required to win business at the low end? This

is doubtful, because the cost of money is similar for all banks.

Because the idea does not satisfy the conditions for either a new-market or a low-end

disruption, Internet banking is likely to be implemented as a sustaining innovation by established

banks. As for the third test, there already are many banks and credit unions, with only a limited

number of office locations, that transact much of their business by mail. Internet banking would

have a sustaining impact on their business models.

deo ok ok ae

Disruption is a theory: a conceptual model of cause and effect that makes it

possible to better predict the outcomes of competitive battles in different

circumstances. The asymmetries of motivation chronicled in this chapter are

natural economic forces that act on all businesspeople, all the time. Historically,

these forces almost always have toppled the industry leaders when an attacker

has harnessed them, because disruptive strategies are predicated upon

competitors doing what is in their best and most urgent interest: satisfying their

most important customers and investing where profits are most attractive. In a

profit-seeking world, this is a pretty good bet.

Not all innovative ideas can be shaped into disruptive strategies, however,

because the necessary preconditions do not exist; in such situations, the

opportunity is best licensed or left to the firms that are already established in the

market. On occasion, entrant companies have simply caught the leaders asleep at

the switch and have succeeded with a strategy of sustaining innovation. But this is

rare. Disruption does not guarantee success: It just helps with an important

element in the total formula. Those who create new-growth businesses need to get

on the right side of a number of other challenges, to which we will now turn.

1-18

Appendix:

A Brief Description of the Disruptive Strategies of the Firms in Figure 1-4

Table 1-2 briefly summarizes our understanding of the disruptive roots of the success of

the companies that are arrayed in figure 1-4. Because of space limitations, much important detail

has been omitted. The companies are listed in alphabetical, rather than chronological, order. We

do not pretend to be strong business historians, and as a consequence can only present here a

partial listing of disruptive companies. Furthermore, it is often difficult to identify a specific year

in which each firm’s disruptive strategy was launched. Some firms existed for a considerable

period, often in other lines of business, before the disruptive strategy that led to their ultimate

success was implemented. In some cases it seems easier to visualize the disruption in terms of a

product category, rather than by listing the name of one company. Hence, we ask our readers to

regard this information as only suggestive, rather than definitive.

Table 1.2:

A Brief Description of the Disruptive Roots

of the Companies and Industries Listed in Figure 1.4

Company or Description

Product

802.11 This is a protocol for high bandwidth wireless transfer of data. It has begun disrupting local area wireline

networks, Its present limitations are that the signals can’t travel long distances.

Amazon.com A low-end disruption relative to traditional bookstores.

Apple, Compaq

et.al, Personal

Microprocessor-based computers made by firms such as Apple, IBM and Compaq were true new-market

disruptions, in that for years they were sold and used in their unique value network before they began to

Black & Decker

computers capture sales from higher-end professional computers.

Beef Processing | In the 1880s, Swift and Armour began huge, centralized beef slaughtering operations that transported large

sides of beef by refrigerated railcar to local meat cutters. This disrupted local slaughtering operations.

Bell Telephone | Bell’s original telephone could only carry a signal for 3 miles, and therefore was rejected by Western Union,

whose business was long-distance telegraphy, because Western Union couldn't use it. Bell therefore started a

new-market disruption, offering local communication ~ and as the technology improved, it pulled customers.

out of telegraphy’s long distance value network into telephony.

Prior to 1960, hand-held electric tools were heavy and rugged, designed for professionals ~ and very

expensive. B&D introduced a line of plastic-encased tools with universal motors that would only last 25-30

hours of operation ~ which actually was more than adequate for most do-it-yourselfers who drill a few holes