SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses examples of disruptive innovations that have disrupted traditional industries, such as department stores, animation, and regional jet manufacturing.
KEYWORDS: disruptive innovation, department stores, digital animation, regional jets
---

doctoral stipend money to buy a Dell rather than a computer with a more reputable brand. Today Dell

Department stores like Z.C.M.I. in Salt Lake City, Marshall Field in Chicago, and R.H. Macy in New York,

disrupted small shopkeepers. The department stores made money by accelerating inventory turns to 3x per

year, which enabled them to earn attractive profit with 40% gross margins. Because their salespeople were

much less knowledgeable about products, at the outset department stores had to start at the simplest end of

the merchandise mix, with products that were so familiar in use that they “sold themselves.”

Digital

animation

The fixed cost and skill required to make a full-length animated movie historically was so high that almost

nobody could do it except Disney. Digital animation technology now enables far more companies (Such as

Pixar) to compete against Disney.

Discount

department

stores

Department stores like Korvette’s in New York, K-Mart in Detroit, and later Wal-Mart and Target disrupted

full-service department stores. The discount stores made money by accelerating inventory turns to 5x per

year, which enabled them to earn attractive profit with 23% gross margins. Because their salespeople were

1-20

much less knowledgeable about products, at the outset the discount department stores had to start at the

simplest end of the merchandise mix, with branded hard goods that were so familiar in use that they “sold

themselves.” They subsequently have moved up-market into soft goods such as clothing.

E-Bay Most of the Internet start-ups of the late 1990s attempted to use the Internet as a sustaining innovation

relative to the business models of established companies. E-Bay was a notable exception, as it pursued a

new-market disruptive strategy - enabling owners of collectibles that could never turn the head of auction

house executives, now to be able to sell off things that they no longer needed.

ECNs Electronic clearing networks (ECNs) allow buyers and sellers of equities to exchange them over a computer,

at a fraction of the cost of doing it on a formal stock exchange. Island, one of the leading ECNs, can handle

on one workstation volume amounting to 20% of the NASDAQ's volume.

E-mail E-mail is disrupting postal services around the globe. The volume of personal communication that is done by

letter is dropping precipitously, leaving postal services with magazines, bills and junk mail.

Embraer & The regional passenger jet business is booming, as their capacity over the past 15 years has stretched from 30

Canadair to 50, 70 and now 106, As Boeing and Airbus struggle to make bigger, faster jets for transcontinental and

regional jets

transoceanic travel, their growth has stagnated; the industry has consolidated (Lockheed and McDonnell

Douglas have been folded in); and the growth is at the bottom of the market.

Endoscopic

Minimally invasive surgery was actively disregarded by leading surgeons because the technique could only

Surgery address the simplest procedures. But it has improved to the point that even certain relatively complicated

heart procedures are done through a small port. The disruptive impact has primarily been on equipment

makers and hospitals.

Fidelity Created “self-service” personal financial management through its easy-to-buy families of mutual funds, 401k

management accounts, insurance products, etc. Fidelity was founded a few years after WWII; but began its disruptive

movements in the 1970s, as best we can tell.

Flat panel We normally think of disruptive technologies as being inexpensive, and many people are puzzled at how we

displays (Sharp | could call flat panel displays disruptive. Haven’t they come from the high end? Actually, no. Flat panel

et.al.) LCD displays took root in digital watches; and then moved to calculators, notebook computers and small

Ford

Galanz

portable televisions. These were applications that historically had no electronic displays at all, and LCD

displays were much cheaper than alternative means of bringing imaging to those applications. Flat screens

have now begun invading the mainstream market of computer monitors and in-home television screens,

disrupting the cathode ray tube. They are able to sustain substantial premium prices because of their 2-D

character,

Henry Ford’s Model T was so inexpensive that he enabled a much larger population of people who

historically could not afford cars, now to own one.

China’s Galanz captured nearly 40% of the world microwave oven market in the 1990s, While the company

could have followed a strategy of low-end disruption ~ using low-cost Chinese labor to make appliances for

export, it instead chose to be a new-market disruptor, making ovens that were small enough and consumed

little-enough power to be used in cramped Chinese apartments; and were cheap enough for non-microwave

oven owners to afford. Once they had built a business model that could make market-enabling price points

for the domestic Chinese market, then taking on the rest of the world was as casy as egg-drop soup.

GE Capital Has disrupted major portions of the commercial banks’ historical markets, primarily through low-end

disruptive strategies.

Google Google and its competing Intermet search engines are disrupting directories of many sorts, including the

Yellow Pages.

Honda Honda’s Supercub, introduced in the late 1950s, disrupted makers of big, thunderous motorcycles such as

motorcycles Harley Davidson, Triumph, BMW and many others. It took root as an off-road recreational motorized

bicycle, and then improved. Honda was joined by Yamaha, Kawasaki and Suzuki,

Ink jet printers

These were a disruption to the laser jet printer, and a sustaining technology relative to the dot-matrix printer.

We put ink jet printers toward the “new market” end of the disruption spectrum, because their compact size,

light weight and low initial cost enabled a whole population of computer owners — primarily students — each

to own and use a printer. While they were slow and produced fuzzy images at the outset, ink jet printers are

now the mainstream printer of choice, having pushed laser jets to the high end. Hewlett Packard stayed atop

this industry by setting up an autonomous ink jet business unit to compete against its laser jet printer

business.

Inte] micro-

processor

Intuit’s

QuickBooks

accounting

software