SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Process Management
SUMMARY: Processes in an organization can be formal, informal, or part of the culture, and they can be capabilities or disabilities for different tasks.
KEYWORDS: business processes, organizational culture, process flexibility, process innovation, process management
---

Processes differ not only in their purpose, but also in their visibility. Some processes are

“formal,” in the sense that they are explicitly defined, documented and followed. Others are “informal,”

habitual routines or ways of working that have evolved over time, which people adopt simply because

“that’s the way we do things around here.” Still other methods of working and interacting have proven so

effective for so long that people unconsciously follow them—and they have become part of the culture of

the organization. Processes that are formal, informal, or part of the culture all define how an organization

transforms inputs into outputs of greater value.

Processes emerge in response to specific recurrent tasks. When people follow a process to do the

task for which it was designed, it usually performs efficiently. But when the same efficient process is

employed to tackle a very different task, it often seems bureaucratic. In other words, a process that

becomes a capability in executing a certain task can be a disability in executing other tasks. In contrast to

the flexibility of many resources, processes by their very nature are meant not to change. They are

established to help employees perform recurrent tasks in a consistent way, time after time, without

needing intense managerial monitoring. One reason that focused organizations perform so well is that

their processes are well aligned to the tasks.‘

Innovating managers within an established company often try to use established processes to

execute new and different tasks because it seems simpler to have one-size-fits-all processes for doing

things. But very often the cause of an innovation’s failure is that the wrong processes were used in

managing its development and execution.°

Sometimes the most crucial processes to examine as capabilities or disabilities aren’t the obvious

value-adding processes involved in logistics, development, manufacturing, and customer service. Rather,

they are the enabling or background processes that support investment decisions. These include how

market research is habitually done, how such analysis is translated into financial projections, how plans

and budgets are negotiated and how those numbers are delivered, the types of objectives for which

managers are held accountable, and so on. These processes are where many organizations’ most serious

disabilities in creating or supporting disruptive growth businesses reside.

Processes are hard to observe, and it can be difficult to judge whether the mainstream

organization’s processes will facilitate or impede a new-growth business. You can make a good guess,

however, by asking whether the organization has faced similar situations or tasks in the past. An

organization would not have developed a process for accomplishing a particular task if it has not

repeatedly addressed a task like that before. For example, if an organization has repeatedly formulated

strategic plans for established businesses in existing markets, then a process for formulating such plans

likely will have coalesced. Managers will instinctively follow that process. Developing a strategic plan to

create a new market where one does not presently exist requires a very different process, however. If the

organization has not repeatedly formulated plans for competing in markets that do not yet exist, it is safe

to assume that no processes for making such plans exist. When a new product or service architecture is to

be developed, when a development cycle is to be accelerated significantly, or a new market is to be

created, a different process almost always will be required.

Priorities

The third class of factors that affects what an organization can and cannot accomplish are the

priorities embedded in its business model.° Employees at every level make prioritization decisions. This

is most evident at the top of the corporation, where senior executives decide to fund certain proposals to

invest in new products, services, and processes, and not to fund others. However, priority-setting is

equally important, and perhaps even more defining, in the less visible middle and lower levels of the

company, where salespeople decide every day which customers they will call on, which products to push

with those customers, and which products not to emphasize; when an engineer decides which of her three

assigned projects she will work on today, or makes a design choice; and when a production scheduler

puts one order ahead of another.

The larger and more complex a company becomes, the more important it is for senior managers

to train employees at every level, acting autonomously, to make prioritization decisions that are consistent

with the business or profit model of the company. Employees must prioritize those things that help the

company to make money in the way that it is structured to make money if the company is to survive.

Whereas resources and processes are often enablers that define what an organization can do,

priorities embedded in the business model often represent constraints—they define what the organization

cannot do or should not do. If, for example, the structure of a company’s overhead costs requires it to

achieve gross profit margins of 40 percent, a powerful decision rule will have evolved that encourages

employees not to propose, and senior managers to dismiss, ideas that promise gross margins at or below

30 percent. Such an organization would be incapable of succeeding in low-margin businesses—because

you can’t succeed with an endeavor that cannot be prioritized. At the same time, an organization with a

very different cost structure in its business model — say overhead costs of 20% -- could embrace and

accord urgency to the very same project. These differences create the asymmetries of motivation that exist

between disruptors and disruptees.

Over time, the priorities of successful firms evolve across two predictable dimensions. The first

relates to acceptable gross margins. As companies upgrade their products and services to capture more

attractive customers in premium tiers of their markets, they often add overhead cost. As a result, gross

margins that at one point were quite attractive will seem unattractive at a later point. What companies can

prioritize changes as they migrate up-market.

The second dimension along which priorities develop and change relates to how big an