SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Model Innovation
SUMMARY: The text discusses how business model innovation is crucial for incumbent firms to adapt to disruptive innovations, which often involve technological simplification and new value networks.
KEYWORDS: business model innovation, disruptive innovation, value proposition, profit formula, resources and processes
---

achieve, given the structure and magnitude of the fixed and variable costs inherent in its resources. It

specifies how big the organization must become in order to break even, and the pattern of profit

improvement, if any, that comes from increasing scale. And the profit formula defines how fast the

organization must turn over its assets, in order to achieve adequate returns.

In general, the value proposition defines value for the customer and the profit formula defines

value for the company and its owners. The resources and processes describe how that value will be

delivered to both the customer and the company.

Module Note—What Are Business Models, and How Are They Built? 610-019

The arrows that link the boxes in Figure A are bidirectional because the sequence in which the four

boxes of the business model are assembled typically varies by circumstance. When the value

proposition relates to product functionality and reliability, the sequence typically occurs clockwise

from the value proposition. The profit formula is derived from the resources and processes that are

required to deliver the functionality and reliability. When cost weighs heavily in the value proposition,

however, then the pieces typically are put in place in a counter-clockwise direction, with prices and

margins being set first. Processes and resources then need to be devised to fit within that constraint.

Business Models and Disruptive Innovation

Negligence or failure in business model innovation is the primary reason why the leading

incumbent firms in most industries typically fail when confronted by disruptive attackers. As shown

in Figure B below, there are three enabling elements to each disruption. The first is a technological

innovation that transforms the fundamental technological problem in an industry from one that

previously had been so complicated that only a few, highly expert people could design and provide

the products or services, into something that is so simple that people with much less training can do

it well. In computers, for example, the simplifying technology was the microprocessor. Whereas

computer design previously had been an expensive, interdependent, intuitive and experimental

process, the microprocessor so simplified the process that Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak could piece

together a computer in a garage, and Michael Dell could design and assemble them in his college

dorm room. In the organic chemicals business the simplifying technology was an understanding of

reaction mechanisms. In medicine the technology that enables disruption is the ability to diagnose

diseases precisely by their cause, rather than by symptom; and so on.

Figure B- The Role of Business Model Innovation in the Process of Disruption

3. New Value Network

* Customers

* Distribution

« Suppliers

-

Time

2. Business Model

Innovation

Source: Casewriters.

610-019 Module Note—What Are Business Models, and How Are They Built?

The second enabler of disruption is a disruptive business model. The simplifying technology must

be embedded in a disruptive business model, whose resources, processes and profit formula enable it

to deliver the simple, affordable solution to the customer in a cost-effective way. In the history of

computing, by illustration, Digital Equipment Corporation, the leading maker of minicomputers

through the 1970s and 1980s, had a wide variety of microprocessors available to it—some of the best

were even made in-house. But DEC’s business model could not profitably make and sell a computer

for less than $50,000—so the company was disrupted and toppled by the desktop computer despite

the fact that the enabling technology was readily available.

[he third enabler of disruption is a new value network—an ecosystem within which the

disruptive business model is embedded. Within a value network, suppliers and distributors and

customers have similar value propositions and profit formulae, and they tend to develop products in

a similar rhythm. If a firm tries to grow a disruptive business within the value network in the rear

plane of Figure B, that value network will force the disruptive business model to conform to its

development rhythms, profit formulae, and value proposition.

Corporate Evolution and Business Model Innovation

It is a well documented fact that never in the course of business history has a company that was

the leader in the rear-most plane of competition (in terms of Figure B), become the leader in the new,

disruptive plane of competition as well, unless it established a completely different business unit

underneath the corporate umbrella. Why? The resources, processes and profit models required to

succeed in the original plane of competition simply are different than those required to succeed in the

new one. The old must coexist with the new, often for years, because disruption is a process, not an

event.

In biological evolution, individual organisms don’t evolve. But little by little, as mutant organisms

gain market share, the population evolves—even though the individuals within it do not. In a similar

way, individual business units, because they comprise a unique business model, rarely evolve. The

interdependencies amongst the four building blocks of the business model mean that business units

can do well what they were designed to do—but they rarely can evolve to do something that is

fundamentally different. But a corporation can evolve, through business model innovation.

To illustrate, let’s review IBM’s history. IBM was the only company that made mainframe

computers that also became a leading maker of minicomputers. How did they do it? IBM made its

mainframes in Poughkeepsie, NY. They were made by the hundreds per year; sold for more than $2

million; and had to generate at least 60% gross margins to make money. IBM was the only mainframe

maker that became a leader in the disruptive minicomputer. It did this by creating a different

business unit in Rochester, MN. These minicomputers sold for $200,000; were made by the tens of

thousands; and required 45% gross margins to cover the overheads inherent in that business. IBM

was also the only maker of minicomputers that became a leader in personal computers. It did this by

setting up yet again a different business unit, in Boca Raton, Florida. This one made computers by the