SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Sustaining Innovation and Disruption
SUMMARY: The text discusses the importance of sustaining innovation and how it can be a dilemma for companies to address disruptive threats and opportunities.
KEYWORDS: sustaining innovation, disruptive innovation, growth strategies, market disruption, technology trends
---

technology, and each is subject to these fundamental forces.

1-6

The Role of Sustaining Innovation in Generating Growth

gairist“thevaggressive-pursuit of Sustaining.,

innovation. Several other insightful books offer management techniques to help companies excel

in sustaining innovations—and their contribution is important.® Almost always a host of similar

companies enters an industry in its early years, and getting ahead of that crowd—moving up the

sustaining-innovation trajectory more decisively than the others—is critical to the successful

exploitation of the disruptive opportunity. But this is the source of the dilemma: Sustaining

innovations are so important and attractive, relative to disruptive ones, that the very best

sustaining companies systematically ignore disruptive threats and opportunities until the game is

over.

Sustaining innovation essentially entails making a better mousetrap. Starting a new

company with a sustaining innovation isn’t necessarily a bad idea: Focused companies

sometimes can develop new products more rapidly than lar ger firms because of the conflicts and

distractions that broad scope often creates. The heory

curve,andythen,selling,out,quic

retutiis»This is common practice in the health care industry, and was the well-chronicled

mechanism by which Cisco Systems “outsourced” (and financed with equity capital, rather than

expense money) much of its sustaining-product development in the 1990s.

A sustaining-technology strategy is not a viable way to build new-growth businesses,

however. If you create and attempt to sell a better product into an established market to capture

established competitors’ best customers, the competitors will be motivated to fight rather than to

flee.” This advice holds even when the entrant is a huge corporation with ostensibly deeper

pockets than the incumbent.

For example, electronic cash registers were a radical but sustaining innovation relative to

electromechanical cash registers, whose market was dominated by National Cash Register

(NCR). NCR totally missed the advent of the new technology in the 1970s—so badly, in fact,

‘that NCR’s product sales literally went to zero. Electronic registers were so superior that there

was no reason to buy an electromechanical product except as an antique. Yet NCR survived on

service revenues for over a year, and when it finally introduced its own electronic cash register,

its extensive sales organization quickly captured the same share of the market as the company

had enjoyed in the electromechanical realm.'° The attempts that IBM and Kodak made in the

1970s and 1980s to beat Xerox in the high-speed photocopier business are another example.

These companies were far bigger, and yet they failed to outmuscle Xerox in a sustaining-

technology competition. The firm that beat Xerox was Canon—and that victory started with a

disruptive tabletop copier strategy.

Similarly, corporate giants RCA, General Electric, and AT&T failed to outmuscle IBM

on the sustaining-technology trajectory in mainframe computers. Despite the massive resources

they threw at IBM, they couldn’t make a dent in IBM’s position. In the end, it was the disruptive

personal computer makers, not the major corporations who picked a direct, sustaining-innovation

fight, that bested IBM in computers. Airbus entered the commercial airframe industry head-on

1-7

against Boeing, but doing so required massive subsidies from European governments. In the

future, the most profitable growth in the airframe industry will probably come from firms with

disruptive strategies, such as Embraer and Bombardier’s Canadair, whose regional jets are

aggressively stretching up-market from below."

Disruption Is'a Relative Term

An idea that is disruptive to one business may be sustaining to another. Given the stark

odds that favor the incumbents in the sustaining race but entrants in disruptive ones, we

recommend a strict rule: If your idea for a product or business appears disruptive to some

established companies but might represent a sustaining improvement for others, then you should

go back to the drawing board. You need to define an opportunity that is disruptive relative to all

the established players in the targeted market space, or you should not invest in the idea. If it is a

sustaining innovation relative to the business model of a significant incumbent, you are picking a

fight you are very unlikely to win.

Take the Internet, for example. Throughout the late 1990s, investors poured billions into

Internet-based companies, convinced of their “disruptive” potential. An important reason why

many of them failed was that the Internet was a sustaining innovation relative to the business

models of a host of companies. Prior to the advent of the Internet, Dell Computer, for example,

sold computers directly to customers by mail and over the telephone. This business was already a

low-end disruptor, moving up its trajectory. Dell’s banks of telephone salespeople had to be

highly trained in order to walk their customers through the various configurations of components

that were and were not feasible. They then manually entered the information into Dell’s order

fulfillment systems.

For Dell, the Internet was a sustaining technology. It made Dell’s core business processes

work better, and it helped Dell make more money in the way it was structured to make money.

But the identical strategy of selling directly to customers over the Internet was very disruptive

relative to Compaq’s business model, because that company’s cost structure and business

processes were targeted at in-store retail distribution.

The theory of disruption would conclude that if Dell (and Gateway) had not existed, then

start-up Internet-based computer retailers might have succeeded in disrupting competitors such

as Compaq. But because the Internet was sustaining to powerful incumbents, entrant Internet

computer retailers have not prospered.

A Disruptive Business Model Is a Valuable Corporate Asset

A disruptive business model that can generate attractive profits at the discount prices

required to win business at the low end is an extraordinarily valuable growth asset. When its

executives carry the business model up-market to make higher-performance products that sell at

higher price points, much of the increment in pricing falls to the bottom line—and it continues to

fall there as long as the disruptor can keep moving up, competing at the margin against the

higher-cost disruptee. When a company tries to take a higher-cost business model down-market