SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation in Business
SUMMARY: The text discusses various examples of disruptive innovations that have disrupted existing markets and industries.
KEYWORDS: disruptive innovation, market disruption, new technologies, business strategy, industry transformation
---

started as a bare-bones discount broker but had moved up towards the mainstream market by the mid-1990s,

Internet-based trading was disruptive enough that the company had to set up a separate division.

On-line travel

agencies

Enabled by electronic ticketing, on-line travel agencies such as Expedia and Travelocity have so badly

disrupted full-service, bricks-and-mortar agencies such as American Express that many airlines have

dramatically cut the substantial commissions that historically they had paid to travel agencies.

Oracle

Oracle’s relational database software was disruptive relative to that of the prior leaders, Cullinet and IBM,

whose hierarchical or transactional database software ran on mainframe computers and was used to generate

standard financial reports. Relational databases ran on minicomputers (and then microprocessor-based

computers). Users without deep programming expertise could readily create their own custom reports and

analyses using Oracle’s modular, relational architecture.

1-22

Palm Pilot, RIM

Hand-held devices are new-market disruptions relative to notebook computers.

glucose meters

BlackBerry

Plastics Plastics as a category have disrupted steel and wood, in that the “quality” of plastic parts often was inferior to

those of wood and steel, along the metrics by which performance was measured in traditional applications.

But their low cost and ease of shaping created many new applications, and plastics have pulled many

applications out of the original metal and wood value networks into the plastic network. The disruption is

particularly obvious if you look at where plastics were used in automobiles 30 years ago, versus today.

Portable Disrupted makers of large blood glucose testing machines in hospital laboratories, enabling patients with

diabetes blood diabetes to monitor their own glucose levels.

Salesforce.com

This company, with its inexpensive, simple Internet-based system, is disrupting the leading providers of

customer relationship management software like Siebel Systems,

Seiko watches

Remember when Seiko watches were those cheap, throw-away black plastic watches? They, Citizen and

Texas Instruments (which subsequently exited) disrupted the American and European watch industries.

Sonosite

This firm makes a hand-held ultrasound device that enables healthcare professionals who historically needed

the assistance of highly trained technicians with expensive equipment, now to look inside the bodies of

patients in their care, and thereby to provide more accurate and timely diagnoses. The company floundered

for a time attempting to implement its product as a sustaining innovation, But as of the time this book was

being written, it seemed to have caught its disruptive stride in an impressive way.

Sony

Sony pioneered the use of transistors in consumer electronics. Its portable radios and portable televisions

disrupted firms like RCA that made large TVs and radios using vacuum tube technology. During the 1960s

and 1970s, Sony launched a series of new-market disruptions, with products like video tape players, hand-

held consumer video recorders, cassette tape players, the Walkman, and the 35-inch floppy disk drive.

Southwest

Airlines

SQL database

software

Staples

Steel minimills

Sun

Microsystems

Toyota

being disrupted by CISC microprocessor-based computer makers such as Compaq and Dell.

It was a hybrid disruptor because its original strategy was to compete against driving and busses, and to fly in

and out of non-mainstream airports. In addition, because its prices were so low it also took business from

established airlines, Just as Wal-Mart enjoys profit protection from being in small towns whose market can

only support one discount store, many of Southwest’s routes offer the same protection,

Microsoft's SQL database software product is disrupting Oracle, which has moved up-market into expensive,

integrated enterprise systems,

With its direct competitors Office Max and Office Depot, Staples disrupted small stationery stores as well as

business-to-business office supplies distributors.

Have been disrupting integrated mills around the world since the mid-1960s, as recounted in the text.

Sun, Apollo (HP) and Silicon Graphics, which built their systems around RISC microprocessors, took root in

essentially the same value network as minicomputers, and disrupted them, These firms, in turn, are now

Entered the US market with cheap sub-compact cars like the Corona. These were so inexpensive that people

who historically couldn’t afford a new car now could buy one; or families could acquire a second car.

Toyota now makes Lexuses, you may have noticed. Nissan has migrated from its Datsun to Infiniti; and

Honda has progressed from its miniature CVCC to Accura.

Toys-R-Us

Disrupted the toy departments of full-service and discount department stores, which has sent them up-market

into higher-margin clothing.

Ultrasound

Ultrasound technology is disruptive, relative to X-Ray imaging. Hewlett Packard, Accuson, and ATL created

a multi-billion-dollar industry by imaging soft tissues, which traditional X-ray technology could not capture.

The leading X-Ray equipment makers, including General Electric, Siemens and Philips, became leaders in

the two major radical sustaining technology revolutions in imaging: CT scanning and magnetic resonance

imaging (MRI). Because ultrasound was a new market disruption, none of the X-ray companies participated

in ultrasound until very recently, when they acquired major ultrasound equipment companies,

University of

A unit of Apollo, the University of Phoenix is disrupting four-year colleges and certain professional graduate

Phoenix programs. It began by providing employee training courses for businesses, often de facto, but sometimes by

formal contract. Its programs have expanded into a variety of open-enrollment, degree-granting programs.

Today it is one of the largest educational institutions in the United States, and is one of the leading providers

of on-line education,

Unmanned These machines took root initially as drone targets to uncover hidden anti-aircraft emplacements. They then

aircraft moved up-market into surveillance roles, and in the 2001-02 war in Afghanistan, moved for the first time into

limited weapons-carrying roles.

‘Vanguard Index mutual funds have been a low-end disruption relative to managed mutual funds. At the time of this

writing, Vanguard’s assets had grown to rival closely those of the former undisputed mutual fund leader,

Fidelity management.

Veritas & Network-attached storage and IP storage area networks are disruptive approaches to enterprise data storage,

Network relative to the centralized storage systems supplied by companies like EMC. Some of these distributed

Appliance networked storage are so simple to augment that an office assistant can simply “snap” an additional storage

1-23