SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Disruptive Innovation and Product Architecture
SUMMARY: The text discusses how disruptive innovations often involve packaging available technologies in a disruptive business model, rather than technological breakthroughs.
KEYWORDS: disruptive innovation, product architecture, interdependence, sustaining innovations, vertical integration
---

have found the following ones to be particularly helpful: Rebecca Henderson and Kim B.

Clark, “Architectural Innovation: The Reconfiguration of Existing Product Technologies

and the Failure of Established Firms,” Administrative Science Quarterly 35 (1990): 9-30;

K. Monteverde, “Technical Dialog as an Incentive for Vertical Integration in the

Semiconductor Industry,” Management Science 41 (1995): 1624-1638; Karl Ulrich, “The

Role of Product Architecture in the Manufacturing Firm,” Research Policy 24 (1995):

419-440; Ron Sanchez and J. T. Mahoney, “Modularity, Flexibility and Knowledge

Management in Product and Organization Design,” Strategic Management Journal 17

(1996): 63-76; and Carliss Baldwin and Kim B. Clark, Design Rules: The Power of

Modularity (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000).

The language we have used here characterizes the extremes of interdependence, and we

have chosen the extreme end of the spectrum simply to make the concept as clear as

possible. In complex product systems, there are varying degrees of interdependence,

which differ over time, component by component. The challenges of interdependence can

also be dealt with to some degree through the nature of supplier relationships. See, for

example, Jeffrey Dyer, Collaborative Advantage: Winning Through Extended Enterprise

Supplier Networks (New York: Oxford University Press, 2000).

Many readers have equated in their minds the terms disruptive and breakthrough. It is

extremely important, for purposes of prediction and understanding, not to confuse the

terms. Almost invariably, what prior writers have termed “breakthrough” technologies

have, in our parlance, a sustaining impact on the trajectory of technological progress.

Some sustaining innovations are simple, incremental year-to-year improvements. Other

sustaining innovations are dramatic, breakthrough leapfrogs ahead of the competition, up

the sustaining trajectory. For predictive purposes, however, the distinction between

incremental and breakthrough technologies rarely matters. Because both types have a

sustaining impact, the established firms typically triumph. Disruptive innovations usually

do not entail technological breakthroughs. Rather, they package available technologies in

a disruptive business model. New breakthrough technologies that emerge from research

labs are almost always sustaining in character, and almost always entail unpredictable

11.

12.

13.

interdependencies with other subsystems in the product. Hence, there are two powerful

reasons why the established firms have a strong advantage in commercializing these

technologies.

Professor Alfred Chandler’s The Visible Hand (Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press, 1977) is

a classic study of how and why vertical integration is critical to the growth of many

industries during their early period.

Economists’ concept of utility, or the satisfaction that customers receive when they buy

and use a product, is a good way to describe how competition in an industry changes

when this happens. The marginal utility that customers receive is the incremental addition

to satisfaction that they get from buying a better-performing product. The increased price

that they are willing to pay for a better product will be proportional to the increased

utility they receive from using it—in other words, the marginal price will equal the

marginal utility. When customers can no longer utilize further improvements in a

product, marginal utility falls toward zero, and as a result customers become unwilling to

pay higher prices for better-performing products.

Sanchez and Mahoney (1996), op. cit., were among the first to describe this phenomenon.

The landmark work of Professors Carliss Baldwin and Kim B. Clark, cited in note 3,

describes the process of modularization in a cogent, useful way. We recommend it to

those who are interested in studying the process in greater detail.

Many students of IBM’s history will disagree with our statement that competition forced

the opening of IBM’s architecture, contending instead that the U.S. government’s

antitrust litigation forced IBM open. The antitrust action clearly influenced IBM, but we

would argue that government action or not, competitive and disruptive forces would have

brought an end to IBM’s position of near-monopoly power.

Tracy Kidder’s Pulitzer Prize-winning account of product development at Data General,

The Soul of a New Machine (New York: Avon Books, 1981), describes what life was like

as the basis of competition began to change in the minicomputer industry.

MIT Professor Charles Fine has written an important book on this topic as well:

Clockspeed (Reading, MA: Perseus Books, 1998). Fine observed that industries go

through cycles of integration and non-integration in a sort of “double helix” cycle. We

hope that the model outlined here and in chapter 5 both confirms and adds causal richness

to Fine’s findings.

The evolving structure of the lending industry offers a clear example of these forces at

work. Integrated banks such as J.P. Morgan Chase have powerful competitive advantages

in the most complex tiers of the lending market. Integration is key to their ability to knit

together huge, complex financing packages for sophisticated and demanding global

customers. Decisions about whether and how much to lend cannot be made according to

fixed formulas and measures; they can only be made through the intuition of experienced

lending officers.

Credit scoring technology and asset securitization, however, are disrupting and

dis-integrating the simpler tiers of the lending market. In these tiers, lenders know and

can measure precisely those attributes that determine whether borrowers will repay a

loan. Verifiable information about borrowers—such as how long they have lived where

4-14

they live, how long they have worked where they work, what their income is, and

whether they’ve paid other bills on time—is combined to make algorithm-based lending

decisions. Credit scoring took root in the 1960s in the simplest tier of the lending market,

in department stores’ decisions to issue their own credit cards. Then, unfortunately for the

big banks, the disruptive horde moved inexorably up-market in pursuit of profit—first to

general consumer credit card loans, then to automobile loans and mortgage loans, and

now to small business loans. The lending industry in these simpler tiers of the market has

largely dis-integrated. Specialist non-bank companies have emerged to provide each slice

of added value in these tiers of the lending industry. Whereas integration is a big

advantage in the most complex tiers of the market, in overserved tiers it is a

disadvantage.