SOURCE: WPO Australia_Creating Growth Throught Disruptive Innovation_Stephen Kaufman.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Modular Failures in Interdependent Circumstances
SUMMARY: The text discusses how modularity often fails in the early stages of disruptive innovations when product performance is not good enough and there are complex, unpredictable interdependencies in the system.
KEYWORDS: modularity, interdependencies, disruptive innovation, CLEC, DSL
---

reliability are inadequate. Modularity often is not technologically or competitively possible

during the early stages of many disruptions.

To succeed with a nonintegrated, specialist strategy, you need to be certain you’re

competing in a modular world. Three conditions must be met in order for a firm to procure

something from a supplier or partner, or to sell it to a customer. First, both suppliers and

customers need to know what to specify—which attributes of the component are crucial to the

operation of the product system, and which are not. Second, they must be able to measure those

attributes so that they can verify that the specifications have been met. Third, there cannot be any

poorly understood or unpredictable interdependencies across the customer-supplier interface.

The customer needs to understand how the subsystem will interact with the performance of other

pieces of the system so that it can be used with predictable effect. These three conditions—

specifiability, verifiability, and predictability—constitute an effective modular interface.

When product performance is not good enough—when competition forces companies to

use new technologies in nonstandard product architectures to stretch performance as far as

4-9

possible—these three conditions often are mot met. When there are complex, reciprocal,

unpredictable interdependencies in the system, a single organization’s boundaries must span

those interfaces. People cannot efficiently resolve interdependent problems while working at

arm’s length across an organizational boundary."

Modular Failures in Interdependent Circumstances

In 1996 the United States government passed legislation to stimulate competition in local

telecommunication services. The law mandated that independent companies be allowed to sell

services to residential and business customers and then to plug into the switching infrastructure

of the incumbent telephone companies. In response, many nonintegrated competitive local

exchange carriers (CLECs) such as Northpoint Communications attempted to offer high-speed

DSL access to the Internet. Corporations and venture capitalists funneled billions of dollars into

these companies.

The vast majority of CLECs failed. This is because DSL service was in the

interdependent realm of figure 4-1. There were too many subtle and unpredictable

interdependencies between what the CLECs did when they installed service on a customer’s

premises and what the telephone company had to do in response. It wasn’t necessarily the

technical interface that was the problem. The architecture of the telephone companies’ billing

system software, for example, was interdependent — making it very difficult to account and bill

for the cost of a “plugged-in” CLEC customer. The fact that the telephone companies were

integrated across these interdependent interfaces gave them a powerful advantage. They

understood their own network and IT system architectures and could consequently deploy their

offerings more quickly with fewer concerns about the unintended consequences of reconfiguring

their own central office facilities.’

Similarly, in the eagerly anticipated wireless-access-to-data-over-the-Internet industry,

most European and North American competitors tried to enter as nonintegrated specialists,

providing one element of the system. They relied prematurely on industry standards such as

WAP (Wireless Applications Protocol) to define the interfaces between the handset device, the

network, and the new content being developed. Companies within each link in the value chain

were left to their own devices to determine how best to exploit the wireless Internet. Almost no

revenues and billions in losses have resulted. The “partnering” theology that had become de

rigueur among telecommunications investors and entrepreneurs who had watched Cisco succeed

by partnering turned out to be misapplied in a different circumstance in which it couldn’t work—

with tragic consequences.

Appropriate Integration

In contrast, Japan’s NTT DoCoMo and J-Phone have approached the new-market

disruptive opportunity of the wireless Internet with far greater integration across stages of the

value chain. These growth ventures already claim tens of millions of customers and billions in

revenue.'® Although they do not own every upstream or downstream connection in the value

chain, DoCoMo and J-Phone carefully manage the interfaces with their content providers and

handset manufacturers. Their interdependent approach allows them to surmount the

technological limitations of wireless data and to create user interfaces, a revenue model, and a

billing infrastructure that make the customer experience as seamless as possible.'”

The DoCoMo and J-Phone networks comprise competing, proprietary systems. Isn’t this

inefficient? Executives and investors indeed are often eager to hammer out the standards before

they invest their money, to preempt wasteful duplication of competing standards and the

possibility that a competitor’s approach might emerge as the industry’s standard. This works

when functionality and reliability and the consequent competitive conditions permit it. But when

they do not, then having competing proprietary systems is not wasteful.'® Far more is wasted

when huge sums are spent on an architectural approach that does not fit the basis of competition.

True, one system ultimately may define the standard, and those whose standards do not prevail

may fall by the wayside after their initial success, or they may become niche players.

Competition of this sort inspired Adam Smith and Charles Darwin to write their books.

Parenthetically, we note that in some of its ventures abroad, such as in its partnership

with AT&T Wireless in the United States, DoCoMo has followed its partners’ strategy of

adopting industry standards with less vertical integration and has stumbled badly, just like its

American and European counterparts. It’s not DoCoMo that makes the difference. It’s employing

the right strategy in the right circumstances that makes the difference,

Being in the Right Place at the Right Time

We noted earlier that the pure forms of interdependence and modularity are the extremes

on a continuum, and companies may choose strategies anywhere along the spectrum at any point

in time. A company may not necessarily fail if it starts with a prematurely modular architecture

when the basis of competition is functionality and reliability. It will simply suffer from an

important competitive disadvantage until the basis of competition shifts and modularity becomes

the predominant architectural form. This was the experience of IBM and its clones in the

personal computer industry. The superior performance of Apple’s computers did not preclude