SOURCE: YPO Argentina_The DNA of Turbocharging Your Business_Bill Bean.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Business Strategy
SUMMARY: The document outlines a process for selecting and prioritizing corporate values to guide a business's strategic direction.
KEYWORDS: corporate values, strategic planning, business priorities, decision-making, value alignment
---

> Write in 4 points for your second choice.

Write in 3 points for your third choice.

White in 2 points for your fourth choice.

Write in 1 point for your fifth choice

Select five values from the following list that you feel best characterize what this enterprise should

always aspire to and pursue. Spaces are provided if you have your own word or phrase other than

those listed.

Master Values List

Accuracy Financial Recognition

Achievement-Oriented Growth-Oriented Reliabili

Best Investment High-Ener. Respect for Individual

Best Products High Market Perception ere

Cohesive High Spirited Responsiveness

Commitment Highest Value __| Results-Oriented

Compassion: Highly Specialized Rewardin

Consistenc) Industry Pioneer Safe-Choice Provider

Cooperation Industry Standard Social Responsibilit

Cost-Effective Innovation Solution-Oriented

Creativity, Integrity / Hones Special Expertise

Credibility Leadership State-of-the-Art

Customer-Oriented Loyalty Success-Oriented

Customer Service Market Leader Supportive

Decisive Most Competitive Teamwork

| Dependability Most Efficient &Effective Technology-Driven

Discipline Performance Driven Trustworthy4

Empowerment Proactive Unique

Enthusiasm Profitability Visionary

Entrepreneurial Progressive (Your Qwn)

Excellence Quality (Your Own)

Your Top Five Values According To Your Point Assignments

#1 (5 pts.) #4 (2 pts.)

: _. ee (4 pis.) ES een Opty |

(3 pls.) |

©1996, 1999, 2004, 2006 Strategia: Optimizing Corpor

Action Plans:

Aacuen emt

: # Description.

Person.

Resp.

1

2

ate and Individual Potential 22

The “DNA” of Turbocharging Your Business

IL Seven Steps of Strategic Planning (continued)

3. Corporate Values (continued)

b. Values Prioritization Team Summary Form

Directions: Summarize the Values Prioritization exercise for up to 10 members of your team on the

following form. A) For each person, collect top 5 values and place them in left column (Selected Values)

and record number of votes below that person's name; B) Ifa subsequent person votes for the same value put

it in the row following that term and below the person's name. If it's a new value add to the Selected Values

list and write in the number of votes for that item; C) Determine if any values are synonyms and combine.

Transfer votes. D) Add up total votes for each value category, and then rank values according to Total Votes

score. E) Extra credit: audit each of the team's top values regarding how well each value is being lived out

in the company (0-10 where 0 = "no evidence of that value" and 10 = "walking the talk").

Selected TEAM MEMBERS’ VOTES Transfer | Total. | Rank | Audit

Values Votes* | Votes

4%

Names >

lL.

2.

3. |__|}

4,

een ees ees

5.

6

sol eis |s

2

a

—

N

ns

WwW

14.

15.

16.

* This column is in the event that you want to combine one value and the votes with another; you add votes from the

other in this column, Example: Say “Integrity” has had several people select and vote for it. Then one person has

“Honesty” and another has ‘Prastworthy.” These are not ox vnonyms, but you don’t want 16 company values

fener! So ved combine alues under “Integrity” and Wransfer the sews given tor vf foneste” and “Trustworthy”

inthe *Pransier Setes” estan

Action Plans:

# © Description

©1996, 1999, 2004, 2006 Strategia: Optimizing Corporate and Individual Potential 23

The “DNA” of Turbocharging Your Business

Tk. Seven Steps of Strategic Planning (continued)

4. Long-Range Vision

a. Forming the Vision Statement

Directions: A vision or mission statement can be broken down into 3 basic parts of 5 ~ 10 words each to forma

succinct message in 25 words or less. First there are “Based upon” principles or values upon which your company rests.

Second, there is a “we provide or we deliver” / “our vision of what we do” kind of statement. Third, there is a

“resulting in” phrase, or conclusion — that, if you fulfill this vision of what you are trying to do, what will be the

results? Benefits? Outcomes?

The following is a simple means of building a basic vision statement; develop a brief, simple phrase for each of 3 parts:

1, What values, principles, are we based upon, are driving our company?

Ideas:

. . .

. . .

Final “Based upon” phrase (¢.8., “PDedicated to heighten experiential and take-home value...”).

Now, your 5 to 10 words:

2, What is your company’s function, your aspiration to be and do?

Ideas:

a, eee so

i

Final “What we do” phrase (c.g., “We will deliver highly informative and impactful education programs.”).

Now, your 5 to 10 words:

3. What do you want to have occur, or result from what you deliver?

Ideas:

. + .

. . .

Final “Resulting in” phrase (¢.g-, “creating meaningful experiences and memories for each participant.”

Now, your 5 to 10 words:

4. Your Vision Statement Draft: Now put the three phrases you have come up with and form one coherent

statement. {f you read the three *e,¢,,’s" above, you will see one sentence of 25 words! It can be done, and better

than this example!

Che Fina} Vision Draft (approximately 25 words):

Action Plans:

Person. Due

Description Resp. Date

fii

/_f

©1996, 1999, 2004, 2006 Strategia: Optimizing Corporate and Individual Potential 24

The “DNA” of Turbocharging Your Business

IL. Seven Steps of Strategic Planning (continued)

4. Long-Range Vision (continued)

b. Vision and Values “Walk the Talk” Audit

EXAMPLE: Vision and Values “Walk the Talk” Audit

e The following is an example of how a company takes its Vision and Values statements

and breaks them into key phrases in order to assess how well the company is living out

its vision and values every day.

e Vision Statement: “We design, manufacture and deliver the highest quality

hobby railroad products through outstanding employees

to loyal customers.”

e Company Values: e Respect for Individual. e Industry Leader.

e Integrity. e Customer-Driven.

e Innovation. ° e Profitability.

o Walk the Talk Audit: Answer for each of the following: “On a scale of 0 (no

evidence) to 10 (total evidence), to what degree does our

company manifest, exhibit, and demonstrate the following

attribute or characteristic everv business dav?”

Vision Element: Respondent Inputs