SOURCE: YPO Argentina_The DNA of Turbocharging Your Business_Bill Bean.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Strategic Planning
SUMMARY: This section outlines the process of prioritizing and ranking business goals through a structured voting and discussion approach.
KEYWORDS: goal prioritization, strategic planning, voting process, action plans
---

e Cast no more than 10 votes on any goal.

© {tis totally fine not to vote on any items they deem unworthy of a vote!

© Give the group at least 10 minutes in “library quiet” to allocate their

30votes on their own writing pad — 30 votes across 11 goals; no more

than 10/per. .

e Each planning team member casts their votes with this thought in mind:

“Wearing my company hat (not a parochial departmental narrow view),

and from whatever angles I deem important (internal or external, long-

term or short-term, strategic or operational) what should the priorities

of this comnany he. all things considered?”

e When everyone has completed their private allocation of votes, start

with goal #1. Go around the room and ask each person for their

number of votes for that item. Voice votes are important because they

need to take ownership for voting!

© Once you have the vote total, write it in the space to the right of the

goal name. Go through the entire goals list in this same fashion to

completion.

e Doasanity test to see how accurate people were in casting their votes.

For example, if /0 people voted at 30 votes each, the total votes cast is

300. If you are off 2 or 3, no big deal. If someone under-voted and 2

goals are tied with the same number of votes, have that person cast the

last vote and break the tie!

« Now, in the far-right column, rank the goals from (here, from I to 11).

These prioritized, ranked numbers now become the goal number, to

remind the team all year on each goal’s ranking. To avoid confusion,

black out the original pre-vote numbers assigned merely to make the

voting process simple.

e Open the meeting for discussion on how well the aggregate priorities

match thelr. =. Any disconneets? What is the excentive summary the

Action Plans:

Description

#

t

2

©1996, 1999, 2004, 2006 Strategia: Optimizing Corporate and individual Potential 29

The “DNA” of Turbocharging Your Business

TL. Seven Steps of Strategic Planning (continued)

6. Goals Identification (continued)

e. Example of the Prioritization Worksheet

GOALS PRIORITIZATION WORKSHEET

OF

1 Marketing

2 Technology 13

3 Sales 22 8

4 Manufacturing 33 4

5 Suppliers 9 11

6 Human Resources 26 7

7 Distribution 38 3

8 Financial 10 9

9 International 51 , 1

10 Communications & Teamwork 30 Fs

27 6

1

i

Total Votes Cast: People x30 Votes Each Equals:

Action Plans:

Description

#

1

2

©1996, 1999, 2004, 2006 Strategia: Optimizing Corporate and Individual Potential 30

The “DNA” of Turbocharging Your Business

Il. Seven Steps of Strategic Planning (continued)

7. Action Plans

a. The Secret: Systematic Conversion from Each Goal Into

Action Plans

The following is an example of how to convert a goal into action plans, followed by

a blank form for your use in your company.

EXAMPLE:

Goal Name: Branding

Includes: Overall Strategy and Priorities

Goal Acronym: BRD (Branding)

() = Team Leader

Action Person(s) Due Revised Actual

Plan # Action Plan Description Responsible* Date Date Date

BRD-01 Complete development of brand the Larry,

strategy. Margaret 5/15/06

BRD-02 Develop new corporate logo. Jenny 6/15/06

BRD-03 Update logo on all promotional

materials / web. Jenny 7/1 5106

BRD-04 — Develop new “About the Company/ (*) Margaret,

Products and Services” brochure. Peter 8/16/06

Goal Name: ~ Includes: Acronym:

Action Person(s) Due Revised Actual

Plan # Action Plan Description Responsible * Date Date Date

een ons tine eR Nt

! (.)= team Leader |

enn

Action Plans:

Person.

# Description Resp.

1

2

©1996, 1999, 2004, 2006 Strategia: Optimizing Corporate and Individual Potential 31

The “DNA” of Turbocharging Your Business

TL. Seven Steps of Strategic Planning (continued)

7, Action Plans (continued)

b. Prerequisites for a Real Action Plan

—_ The purpose of Action Plans is to implement the goal!

— Completed, effective action plans achieve the goals and produce

the results.

— The Action Plan has 4 absolutely critical parts;

@ ©

A/P# |} Action Plan Description Responsible Due-Date || Act’) Date

PUR—O1|] Buy first 10 new parts from the (*) Jim L., 1/15/06 fl

Philippines Graham

Q) A/P#: The Action Plans’ number system:

— Typically an “alpha” tag of 3 letters, with a number. (01, 02,

03, ete.).

_. Examples: PUR for Purchasing, FIN for Financial, ENG for

Engineering, SAL for Sales, etc.

— So the first action plan for Purchasing is PUR-01.

— For every new action plan that comes during the year add Pur-02,

Pur-03, Pur-04, etc.

Action Plan Description should be succinct, clear, simple, strong action to

achieve goal.

Responsible: the asterisk (*) is that if more than one name, there must always

be one person accountable, designated by the asterisk.

The Due-Dates and Actual Dates: The Due Date as (mm/dd/yy) establishes a

“stroke of midnight” accountability for time lines. The Actual Date is when it’s

done!

QoOoO

e Lessons:

_ Aslid Due-Date counts as a “ate” and hurts goal progress.

~ The manager should know well in advance if an item is late.

A surprise 15 of PEOCESS Jallure.

- These action plans srrategic plan cuties must he tied inte his her

performance appraised, weighted along vide daily operation tusks.

Action Plans:

Acuon rian.

5 # Description

1

2

©1996, 1999, 2004, 2006 Strategia: Optimizing Corporate and Individual Potential

The “DNA” of Turbocharging Your Business

Il. The Monthly Implementation Process - Making It Happen

1. The Master Practice: The Monthly Strategic Implementation

Meeting:

a. Overview:

e While Action Plans make Strategic Goals practical...

e {tis the Monthly Strategic Implementation Meeting that ensures Action

Plans are done well and on time.

e This Master Practice sets forth the key ingredients of this Monthly

Meeting.

b. Setting the Monthly Meeting Time and Schedule:

Week of Month: (e.g., third week of month).

Day of Week: (e.g., Monday of that week).

Start Time: am / pm

Block Until: am / pm

Note: This is so no one leaves a meeting