SOURCE: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021\Customer Academy_Len 2021\Part 1 Series_26 Jan 2021\Pre-reading
TOPIC: Personalized Jewelry Design Experience
SUMMARY: The text describes Zameer Kassam's unique approach to creating bespoke jewelry pieces by engaging clients through an immersive, collaborative, and personalized experience.
KEYWORDS: personalized jewelry design, client engagement, collaborative design process, jewelry as experience, storytelling
---

[Document: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf]

LY

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients 621-043

Jens and Amol

“It isn't an in-store experience. We had drinks at a hotel to get sized-up. We met at

the Harvard Club to have our intake conversations with him. It was a joint creation

process, and it was a journey, but it didn't feel commercial at all. It's not like you're

going into a store and talking to a stranger.”

“He was so thoughtful in terms of asking us the details around our story: how we

met, what we appreciate in each other, what got us excited about the wedding. We

sipped Champagne while talking, so we were really candid, and he was taking

copious notes. | was not 100% sure what we would come back with. The mystery

deepened until the point when we had that grand unveiling.”

“| think part of what makes it special is just how deep he goes in these conversations.

He's very savvy around what questions to ask and how to find commonalities in our

stories, and thinking through about what to bring back to us. He went deep enough

to really understand what brings us together as a couple, and then he shared some

of those things back. He did a really nice job of connecting the dots.”

“People are moving away from goods towards experiences. Personalization is really

important — everyone wants something that is a little bit reflective of themselves

rather than just mass. He applies a bespoke approach and makes purchasing a good

into something that’s an experience, which is so much more meaningful. If you buy

something expensive, it no longer brings you as much happiness five years from

now, but every day when | put on this ring, | think about the story behind it, which is

the story of our relationship together.”

Zahir and Anita

“| met Zameer for a drink somewhere near his office, and it felt very informal. He

explained up front, first I'll give you a crash course in what to look for in diamonds,

and then I'll take you through my process and what | do. It didn’t feel like a business

meeting. It felt like meeting an old friend.”

“The process was extremely collaborative from the very beginning. It's not, ‘I'm going

to sell you a piece of jewelry. Let's create one together. That felt really cool. It didn’t

feel like he was selling us something. It felt like he was bringing me on board to

design the ring with him. It felt very egalitarian — that this was going to be a ring that

| was just as much responsible for as he is in a lot of ways.”

“He has a real knack for theatricality. He had everything very slowly and carefully

unveiled with the sketches to show exactly what he had in mind. What he was asking —

about was, does this accurately capture and reflect what you are looking for? Does

this give you the feeling that you want to feel? There were a couple of things in the j

design where, although it was all very well done, maybe a small tweak here and fi

there.”

“When he unveiled the ring, he built up the tension. It was very fun and very

entertaining, but he was very clear about how this was not his creation, this was our

creation, which is what felt really special — that he actually had me feeling like an

equal in that.”

“Before | proposed that day, | texted Zameer and Aimée and told them that all of the

plans were in place, and that | was a nervous wreck. As soon as she said yes, we

first texted our families, and then | texted Zameer with a picture.”

23

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

621-043 Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

Michael and Allie

“It is murky, murky water that you're stepping into. It is also a significant

investment, both monetarily and emotionally speaking; it's something you want to

get right. Part of what this informational session and their entire process does is

make you feel like you’re in good hands. Psychologically, it's not travelling to the

diamond district of New York and feeling like someone's trying to pawn something

off on you. Starting out with a ‘let me teach you, let me help you,’ approach, was

something | really appreciated.”

“Their messaging was that they're extremely enthusiastic about hearing about our

story. About hearing about Allie. You sort of get to a point where you definitely

believe them. You get to a point where when they're asking you all these

questions, and they're responding enthusiastically to your answers, and they're

asking follow-ups, that although some of their questions were hard to answer, |

never had an issue being comfortable with them.”

“When they went through all of the different things that they could put into the ring,

| was mind blown. | knew Allie would love it. From that call, | was so happy. Once

we had that call, it opened my mind to what was possible, and it became more of

a collaborative process. At that point, | was still working with two other diamond

dealers, and at that point | knew — this is the right process. These people get it.

They care about our relationship. They can tell our story in this ring. This is what

| want. After that, | felt very strongly about working with them.”

“It's their policy to not send a photo before we receive the ring, which was at the

time a little bit anxiety inducing. | trusted them, but at the same time, it arrived

Friday at 7:00 pm and | proposed Saturday at 10:00 am — not because of them,

but because | gave them two weeks — as small a timeframe as you can give. At