SOURCE: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021\Customer Academy_Len 2021\Part 1 Series_26 Jan 2021\Pre-reading
TOPIC: Jewelry Retail Experience
SUMMARY: This text discusses a personalized jewelry retail experience that focuses on the client's love story and emotions, rather than just selling a diamond.
KEYWORDS: jewelry retail, client engagement, personalized design, emotional connection, love story
---

[Document: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf]

The storyteller would also share the company’s perspective on what they believed was most

beautiful in terms of color and clarity, as well as their philosophy on carat weight. “We have a totally

different view on carat weight,” noted Cucchiaro. “We think it’s important to know the carat weight of

the diamond, but we know that some diamonds can look larger than their carat weight implies.” In

addition to the educational component, the tutorial was also designed to give the client a better

understanding of who would be creating this very special piece alongside them. “My personal objective

is to establish a greater sense of trust,” explained Cucchiaro. “The diamond tutorial is my chance to

say, ‘Iam part of this team, and I’ve got you.”

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

621-043 Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

The Discovery

The discovery was typically an hour-long conversation during which Kassam or the storyteller

would ask the client a series of structured questions to learn the details of their love story (Exhibit 11),

which would ultimately be interpreted and woven into the ring’s design. Kassam explained:

“We take a client through a journey where we relive the moments and experiences of their life

leading to what is the biggest decision that they have made to this point. The gravity of that should

not be lost by anyone, and the industry loses it. [In a traditional jewelry retail store,] you walk in

and they ask, what carat diamond? What type of setting? And then try to sell you on the easiest

option. It robs the person of the emotion and excitement of the moment! What we care about is that

you love this person because he or she was there for you through tough times. Because you’ve

celebrated some of your best times. We want to get the client to a point where he or she is feeling

emotions, but I also want my storyteller to get to the point where he or she is feeling emotions

because if you can feel emotions in 2020 with someone, that’s magic. That's something that doesn’t

happen, and it's not about retail; it’s about humanity.”

Cucchiaro elaborated, “We document what's most important (Exhibit 12), You can hear it in an

inflection. You can see it in people’s body language, or when their eyes light up. There’s a lot of

psychology with this job. When you see those cues, you note, we definitely have to have this

somewhere in the design.”

At the end of the discovery conversation, the storyteller would often ask the client to complete a

homework assignment. For example, Cucchiaro described, “we might ask them to share photographs

that allow us to connect with their story ona visual level. Examples can be as specific as a photograph

of a spoon that reminds their fiancée-to-be of their childhood, or as broad as sharing their favorite

photos from a meaningful trip to Argentina.” The team sometimes received dozens of pictures,

sketches, or even a screenshot of an important text exchange. “More often than not,” explained

Cucchiaro, “the client appreciates the assignment, because it allows him or her to remember even more

of the memories, milestones, and moments that they cherish with the person they love. Sometimes,

they’Il come back and say, you know what? I now know how I'm going to propose, because you gave

me this homework assignment.”

After the discovery, the storyteller would prepare a creative brief that captured the couple's love

story in a way that facilitated its translation into design. This brief, plus the client's completed

homework assignment, and additional research conducted by the storyteller, served as inputs for

Kassam or a designer on the team (Exhibit 13). Depending on the couple's aesthetic preferences,

sometimes elements of their story would be woven into the ring in subtle ways, such as hidden stones,

phrases, or symbols inscribed on the inside of the band. In other cases, the design elements would be

more prominent, informing the shape of the prongs that held the solitaire, the contours of the band

itself, and the configuration of stones, patterns, and markings around its circumference. “Ultimately,

the design is meant to be very classic and timeless with all the details very discrete,” noted Kassam.

Designs were sketched by hand, with pencil on paper, highlighting how each intricate detail would be

incorporated into the piece itself.

While the design was being finalized, Roberto worked to ensure that all of the diamonds the team

wanted to present to the client were in the office and ready for them to view. Since establishing the

business, Kassam had entered into strategic partnerships that provided access to responsibly-sourced

diamonds and lines of credit. “The process is conducted on a loaning basis,” Roberto explained. “We

have relationships with diamond offices, and they’Il loan to us a certain dollar value. We can keep the

diamonds on loan anywhere from one to three weeks to show to the client,” she explained.

8

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients 621-043

Once the design is finished, the team needed to agree on a price for the finished piece. “We have an

established set of pricing rules,” explained Roberto.

“First, we look for benchmarks within the industry that are comparable to us in terms of both

the diamond quality and craftsmanship - that’s usually at a luxury brand like Harry Winston or

Tiffany. As a business without stores, inventory and other overhead, we can offer a far more

competitive price, and we know to our clients, value is of the utmost importance. We end up

anywhere from 30 to 80% below a luxury jewelry brand. We keep ourselves to a minimum of 30%