SOURCE: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021\Customer Academy_Len 2021\Part 1 Series_26 Jan 2021\Pre-reading
TOPIC: Jewelry Retail Trends
SUMMARY: The text discusses the evolving jewelry retail landscape, including the rise of branded jewelry, lab-grown diamonds, and the impact of transparency and omnichannel retailing.
KEYWORDS: engagement rings, branded jewelry, lab-grown diamonds, omnichannel retail, supply chain transparency
---

[Document: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf]

engagement rings in brick-and-mortar stores.'? The appeal of in-store jewelry purchases included

access to services such as ring cleanings, guidance from store employees, and concerns that online

jewelry would look different in person."' High end jewelers offered additional services such as

beverages, private showrooms, and a personal consultation from a member of the sales staff.!2 Further,

approximately 33% of couples shopped for an engagement ring together; therefore, shopping in-store

gave brides and grooms-to-be the opportunity to try on rings prior to purchase.!3 Personalization was

also common among U.S. shoppers; in 2019, almost 50% of surveyed consumers reported purchasing

a ring with customized features.!4 Shoppers who wanted a high degree of personalization could hire

jewelry consultants to design bespoke rings, or jewelry “concierges” to manage the ring-buying process

and procure unique pieces. !5

Meanwhile, an increasing number of consumers favored branded jewelry; a 2019 study suggested

that branded pieces represented as much as 40% of U.S. engagement ring purchases. Industry experts

anticipated that the rise of branded jewelry would place heightened pressure on small retailers, who

often did not have robust marketing budgets to compete with more established competitors.1”

Jewelers also had to contend with the growing popularity of lab-grown diamonds, which cost

consumers almost 50% less than natural gems.'8 By 2020, as many as 70% of surveyed consumers

claimed to be willing to consider purchasing synthetic diamonds. !? Some industry observers attributed

the growth of the synthetic diamond market to millennial customers, who made up roughly 60% of

U.S. diamond demand.”? Millennials tended to be socially-conscious shoppers, and_ therefore

increasingly gravitated toward lab-based gems to avoid the human rights abuses historically associated

with diamond mining.?! However, following the trends from lab-grown sapphires, industry observers

anticipated that lab-grown and natural diamonds would remain separate markets, with increased

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell’s the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients 621-043

production of synthetic diamonds further deflating prices, making them accessible for costume jewelry

uses, and accounting for 5% to 15% of the total diamond market in value terms through 2030.2

To meet governmental and consumer concerns regarding sourcing, jewelers increasingly adopted

blockchain® technologies to provide transparency throughout their supply chains.3 However, this

increased pricing pressure within the industry, as sourcing transparency opened up retailers to a

higher degree of scrutiny regarding their price structures.”4 The rise of omnichannel retail, in which

traditional brick-and-mortar operations established e-commerce channels, also added pricing

transparency to the industry, as shoppers had the option of comparing ring prices across multiple

vendors before visiting a store.*> Nevertheless, many players in the jewelry industry were reluctant to

disclose product-related information, leaving customers limited resources for educating themselves

prior to shopping. As a result, information asymmetry regarding engagement rings remained high,

with customers often relying on jewelers as a primary source of knowledge during the ring-buying

process. ?6

In addition to changing market dynamics, the engagement ring industry faced external pressures,

such as declining marriage rates in the U.S. and increased price sensitivity among Gen Z and

millennial’ consumers.” The industry was also highly dependent on factors such as the overall health

of the economy, which impacted consumer spending, and commodity prices for gold, diamonds, and

other precious metals.”8 For instance, profit margins within the industry declined between 2015 and

2020, in part due to the rising cost of gold.” Meanwhile, global diamond prices had steadily increased

since 1970. Large companies such as Tiffany’s often absorbed the increased costs rather than raising

prices, while smaller businesses were forced to shift the costs to consumers.2?

Zameer Kassam

Zameer Kassam’s parents emigrated to Canada in 1971 after being expelled from Tanzania

following Idi Amin’s rise to power in neighboring Uganda. Forced from their home, Kassam’s parents

lost their jobs, their savings, and the jewelry that had been in their family for generations. “As South

Asians, jewelry plays a big part in our lives. It’s something that people keep in the family - a source of

pride, history and wealth,” explained Kassam. Kassam‘s parents worked in convenience stores in

Vancouver until Kassam’s older brother started a jewelry business.

“I very much grew up in the industry,” explained Kassam. “I started at 11 years old, selling

Mickey Mouse watches in the local mall, and by the time I was seventeen, I was certified in diamond

grading and managing my own store after school and on weekends. I loved helping people celebrate

their milestones through pieces of jewelry, but knew that I wanted to try something different. I also

knew my parents had a dream that I would be the first in our family to get a university degree. So,

I said, I’m going to leave the family business, get this degree and see what happens.”

Kassam attended the University of Western Ontario and upon graduating, worked as a business

analyst in the Toronto office at McKinsey & Company. “McKinsey was where I first learned about

storytelling - both to help solve problems and to communicate recommendations. It was a great

experience, but after two years I wanted more international experience and to try something

* Blockchain uses a network of computers to verify each step, or “block,” throughout the transaction process, and then provides

a publicly accessible, chronological record of the transaction.

> The term ‘millennial’ refers to individuals born between 1981 and 1996, while Gen Z encompasses individuals born between

1997 and 2012.

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

———————————————————————

621-043 Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

completely different from consulting.” _Kassam moved to Mumbai, India to work for MTV Networks

International. “That was a very unexpected turn, because I didn’t speak the language and had never

been there.” In his new role, Kassam travelled around Asia and the Middle East, launching MTV,