SOURCE: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021\Customer Academy_Len 2021\Part 1 Series_26 Jan 2021\Pre-reading
TOPIC: Jewelry Retail Experience
SUMMARY: The company creates a personalized and emotional buying experience for its clients, focusing on the story behind the jewelry rather than just the product.
KEYWORDS: jewelry retail, customer experience, personalization, client-facing, emotional connection
---

[Document: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf]

for us, we're not just trying to give the client a beautiful moment; we are training the client on how

to propose. We want you to realize that you won't just pull the ring out and feel nothing. You will

present a ring that you built with us, that tells the story of your love and your life, and that this ring

will literally last longer than we will be alive. And for your family, it's an heirloom. We want to fill

our client with all of that love and excitement, to help maximize the emotions of the imminent

proposal.”

When meeting in person was infeasible, the company would ship the ring, encouraging the client

to initiate a Facetime or Zoom session when the package was received, so they could open it together.

After that, the client would go off to propose. “We are almost always the first to receive the picture of

the ring on the hand,” explained Kassam. Then, immediately thereafter, we invite them both to connect

for an online or in-person private celebration.”

The Private Celebration

Kassam described what would come next:

“In the private celebration, the client’s partner usually thinks he or she is coming in just to meet

the team that designed the ring. What they don’t know is that we will surprise them with all of the

details of the process, including the notes of their love story that we've now rewritten in our special

way. I can guarantee you, most women have never heard the words a man who loves them will say

when she is not there, if he’s asked. Most men have never been asked. When we share the special

words - often reciting quotes - it’s the most beautiful, emotional moment. We are enabling love to

the nth degree. Then we share that their diamond is in the top 0.1 percent of fire, life, and brilliance;

that it’s responsibly sourced, and that I’ve often been to the mines where it’s from. We speak about

how the ring is hand fabricated in New York, and then we share a little bit about how to keep it

clean and take care of it. It’s a home-run moment for everyone. We always have the whole client-

facing team there. That’s when we all remember our purpose. We're not selling rings; we're telling

loves stories. We don’t have customers; we have clients, and we are enabling love and gratitude.

And we feel it - there are a lot of tears. When does any of that happen in a jewelry retail

environment? Never.”

I 08907

10

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients 621-043

If the couple was New York-based, then Kassam would often offer to host a celebration of his latest

design. “And if they would like to invite their friends, of course we'd love to meet them. Not just

because we want to celebrate their story, but because we'd love to someday design pieces for them.

Weare very transparent that this is a referral business. It’s built purely on word of mouth, and we let

them know that if there’s someone in their world who they think would enjoy this unique, wild and

crazy thing we do, we'd love to meet them. (see Exhibit 16 for Instagram posts from public

celebrations).”

The Secret Sauce?

Five months into the pandemic, Kassam reflected on his business. “If we're in a world where we

can’t meet in person and people get comfortable with the new normal of shopping online ~ what does

that mean for the 28 year old in love? Dating his or her partner for three or four years... Needs to buy

an engagement ring... Wants something unique and personal... Starts to look online and chooses a

generic option because we don’t sell online. Or reaches out to us and doesn’t feel the magic of previous

clients, without the ability to meet in-person. Or worst yet, discovers some new company that is

offering their own unique experience online in ways that leap-frog ours. That scares me most.”

The company had an email address, a phone number, and an Instagram account, but for the most

part, it had been a low-tech, decidedly-offline business. “Perhaps,” reflected, Kassam, “there’s a world

in which some parts of our service delivery could be shifted online? Not just to gain efficiencies, but to

actually improve or deepen the customer experience? And if we could crack that, perhaps there are

thousands more people who are madly in love, and who would prefer to do this all online, who we can

then serve?”

Kassam and his team had observed benefits with the online approach. For example, Cucchiaro had

told him that conducting the discovery by phone might actually lead to learning more of the client’s

real story, since without having to make direct eye contact, clients seemed more comfortable being

candid. She also found that she could capture more verbatim quotes by phone, since she could type

faster than she could write. The team had found success with online storytelling, too. Sending an e-

mail of the sketches with attached videos of the diamonds, to supplement a telephone conversation,

led to clients making decisions faster than with a face-to-face storytelling. Kassam speculated that

having a persistent record, explained step-by-step in their inbox, and with more detail than was

contained in this sketchpad alone, may have helped the client come to a decision more quickly.

Still, Kassam wondered what was being lost. For example, Kassam shuddered when he thought of

aclient unboxing a ring ina place with poor lighting. “That moment, when you see this incredible piece

of jewelry that you built with us, and because of the lighting it doesn’t take your breath away. We can

control that in our environment.” Kassam elaborated, “I have been surprised to see the business grow