SOURCE: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021\Customer Academy_Len 2021\Part 1 Series_26 Jan 2021\Pre-reading
TOPIC: Jewelry Design and Personalization
SUMMARY: Zameer Kassam left a corporate job to pursue his passion for designing personalized jewelry, starting a successful fine jewelry company that tells meaningful stories through its designs.
KEYWORDS: jewelry design, personalized jewelry, entrepreneurship, customer engagement, storytelling
---

[Document: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf]

connections. He was dealing with all of the bureaucracy of being in a big company, rather than

being on the front lines, talking to customers, and learning their stories.”

“I realized it wasn’t what I wanted to do, and I left,’ Kassam explained. He moved to New York

City, where he lived for seven months on Agarwal’s couch as he scouted a new direction. Over the next

two years, Kassam took on a handful of consulting projects for companies in different parts of the

jewelry industry, but his passion for design endured. “I just didn't have the confidence,” he explained.

“I was never trained in design; I worked in jewelry stores. I didn’t believe that I could design

something special.” During that period, he had leveraged his relationships and knowledge to help

friends procure engagement rings, but one friend, Simon Fairbrass, challenged him to design a ring

that would be classic but in some way unique for his girlfriend, Puja Jain (MBA 2009). “Simon is British,

and Puja is Indian. I immediately thought of bringing their backgrounds into the design, but it felt a

bit obvious. So I asked Simon to remind me how they met, some of the milestones in their relationship,

and what made her the one for him.” He replied:

“Well, you remember that time that we were in Portugal? We were in the Algarve, and had been

on the beach all morning. I loved spending the day with her, but I really wanted to go surfing. I

remember looking over at her and asking if she’d mind me hitting the waves while she hung out

with our friends. She looked at me and said, ‘are you kidding? I will school you on the waves!’ In

that moment, I realized she’s not just smart and beautiful; she’s also this adventurous woman who

could someday be my co-pilot in life. From that day we have had so much fun, it’s a trip I will never

forget.”

Kassam designed a ring that looked simple from afar (Exhibit 6), but upon closer inspection,

contained many personal details reflecting their story. The number of diamonds on the sides

represented the number of months they dated before the proposal. The prongs securing the diamond

were inspired by a temple in her ancestral village in India. Inside the band was a carving of the specific

surfboard from the Algarve, with inset gemstones the colors of the Portuguese flag. “We have come far

from those early days in how we tell stories,” explained Kassam, “but that is where this idea of creating

rings that told stories was born.”

Engaging Clients

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry was founded in 2012, and by August of 2020, the company had

designed nearly 2,000 engagement rings (see Exhibit 7 for some example engagement rings created by

the company). He and his designs have been featured in press ranging from VOGUE to the New York

Times, and to important events such as the Oscars (see Exhibit 8 for example press coverage). Over

time, Kassam and his team had developed and honed a standardized process through which they

would engage clients to create custom pieces (see Exhibit 9 for a timeline of the process with an

example client and Exhibit 10 for client reflections on different facets of the engagement).

5

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

ee

621-043 Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

Introductory Call

The process for every prospective client began with an introductory call with Kassam or a storyteller

on his team. Storytellers were not jewelers, but rather were the company’s client-facing representatives,

tasked with learning and capturing the client's love story, so that it could be translated through design

into a ring that was uniquely representative of their relationship. For example, the company’s Chief

Storyteller, Aimée Cucchiaro, had been an actor prior to joining the company. “Part of acting is to

investigate people’s lives in order to tell their stories. I think what makes a successful storyteller in our

company is to be able to listen, interpret, and connect with our clients during these pivotal moments

in life,” she explained.

The introductory call was a two-way exchange of information, during which the storyteller would

introduce the company and share an overview of its process, before learning about the client’s needs

and preferences. “I explain that we create bespoke jewelry from scratch here in New York City, and

that we can’t create anything without your love story,” explained Cucchiaro.

Next, the storyteller would generally provide an overview of the company’s process. “We share

that we have a three-step process, that takes a total of 2-3 hours of our clients’ time.” explained Kassam.

“The first step is what we call the tutorial, where we take you through what we think is worth it

and what we think is not worth it when it comes to diamonds, specifically focusing on the trade-

offs where beauty and value are optimized. At the end of that 30-minute tutorial, you're going to

know everything you need to know to make an informed, empowered decision about a diamond.

The second step is the discovery, where we learn the story of the relationship. It’s a very simple half

hour to hour-long conversation in which we ask a series of questions. No pre-work is necessary,

nor encouraged. It gives us a sense of the milestones and the moments that make up your unique

love story. The third step is what we call the storytelling. And that’s where we share three options

of diamonds that are extraordinary, from the top to the bottom of your budget, as well as the

sketches that bring your story to life through design. This is when you decide to move forward on

the ring, and we kick off production.”

After describing the process, the storyteller would check-in with the client to ask if they were