SOURCE: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021\Customer Academy_Len 2021\Part 1 Series_26 Jan 2021\Pre-reading
TOPIC: Customized Jewelry Design
SUMMARY: The text discusses how Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry designs personalized engagement rings that capture the unique stories and emotions of the couples.
KEYWORDS: Personalized Rings, Couple Collaboration, Emotional Storytelling, Jewelry Design, Engagement
---

[Document: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf]

diamonds meant, | think what was most powerful was the stones that are on the

inside, because those truly come from David's heart.”

Jeff and Tony

“Our rings look like simple, Art Deco gold bands. , But the design means so

much more. They are actually two interlocking paper clips wrapped around the ring.

When Tony and | were dating, we would write cards and notes back and forth, Tony

would sign all of his cards to me with two paper clips stuck together because he

always said, “you never get one paper clip at a time, there's always another one

stuck to it— and YOU are my paper clip.”

“What's really special is that when Jeff proposed, he was down on one knee and

as he slid the ring on my finger, initially, | just saw a sophisticated Art Deco ring. He

then asked, ‘can you tell what it is?’ and when | truly examined the ring | got to the

back and suddenly grasped how special it was, my heart jumped a little. So much

meaning was captured in the design of the ring. | love that to the casual observer

that meaning its hidden, but it was immediately obvious to me.”

“Not only did | get to receive an engagement ring, but I got to give something as

well. That extended the experience of becoming engaged. The process of receiving

such a special ring from Jeff and then over the next couple of months, meeting with

Zameer and being able to have my feelings for Jeff captured inside his ring meant a

ton. They may look the same on the outside, but on the inside, these rings are

20

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients 621-043

uniquely infused with elements meaningful to each of us. It allowed both of us to

express our love in our own ways.”

“This process gave each of us a new way to express ourselves. It was really

interesting for us to have these conversations with Zameer, to dig deep and to be

able to express our feelings into spoken language and eventually a design that

reflects the genesis of these emotions. There are a lot of times that you have all of

these emotions, but lack the words to express them. This forces you to start to find

the words that can convey these powerful feelings for one another.”

Kate and Louis

“This was the look that | wanted, and they fit everything into the look that | wanted. I'm

a physician, so | wanted it to be flat. There was casual conversation where Louis asked,

‘when we do get engaged, what kind of ring would you like?’ | told him | want something

that was simple, and that would not stick up on my hand. | never expected the ring to

be special, and actually when he proposed, | only noticed the way it looked. He

whispered, there are a lot of things | can tell you about that ring.”

“| knew very early on that | was not going to have the information to make a great

decision on this, so | was looking for someone who would provide very good insight on

how to choose the best diamond. | had a very good call with Zameer. He provided insight

that no one else had mentioned, not only in terms of finding a good diamond, but finding

a good diamond for the price. Things like the ratio of the surface area relative to the

weight. A diamond that's not incredibly thick. Once you think about it, it makes a lot of Fare

sense, but nevertheless it was really insightful to me.” A

“As the process continued forward, they shared a sketch with initial thoughts on the (f ‘)

design. The sketch itself was very special. It was outlining certain ideas, but even the a YA

sketch itself was very pretty. It was beautiful — It was hand drawn with a pencil. Along

the way, they were winning me over. | was swooning throughout the process.”

“We were sitting in a café after the proposal, and he walked me through all of the

different pieces of it, and | started crying. It represents everything Louis has been in our

relationship, because he’s extremely thoughtful and sentimental, but really only with me.

He’s not a sentimental guy at baseline, but he knows it means a lot to me. When people

say | love your ring, | say, you love the way it looks, but | have to tell you about all of

these special things because it's so much more than just a beautiful diamond.”

Marsha and Chester

“Our first meeting was really about education. I'd never been engaged before. | don’t

know too much about jewelry, so she took me through the whole education of color in

stones, the type of quality of stones, the fire and brilliance of stones, the ratings of

stones. She gave me books to read. She gave me all kinds of resources to let me know

what | was getting. | found that very, very valuable.”

“The second meeting | had with her was probably my favorite. It was the discovery. We

went through every detail of our relationship, and she took detailed notes on everything,

from how we met, to the first date, to the first trip out of town, to meeting the parents.

That was a 2-3 hour meeting | had with her, in a nice hotel on Park Avenue. It was a top

notch experience. After that, she said, | have homework for you. She sent me home with

a list of items to send her. Some of those were pictures of our courtship. That's where

she got the leaf from Jamaica, from Marsha’s hometown. She also asked me to send