SOURCE: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021\Customer Academy_Len 2021\Part 1 Series_26 Jan 2021\Pre-reading
TOPIC: Luxury Jewelry Retail Experience
SUMMARY: This document explores the personalized engagement process of a luxury jewelry brand, Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry, in creating a custom engagement ring for a client.
KEYWORDS: luxury jewelry, client engagement, custom jewelry design, personalized experience, proposal story
---

[Document: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf]

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients 621-043

Exhibit7 Example Engagement Rings by Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry

Source: Company documents.

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

621-043 Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

Exhibit8 Example Press Coverage for Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry

Hollij

ollifipoog CRAIN'S

Lupita Nyong'o Wore a $1.2M

Time's Up-Inspired Ring to ee ee =?

Oscars Party aia

/-_:t KE

f

tee

ee

eee

ve

1

-

i

‘

i

=

Courtery of Zamees Kassaen

Source: Brookins, Laurie. “Lupita Nyong'o Wore a $1.2M Time's Up-Inspired Ring to Oscars Party.” The Hollywood Reporter,

February 27, 2019. https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news / see-lupita-nyongos-12m-times-up-inspired-ring-

1191012, accessed September 2020.

Kim, Jeanhee. “For This Bespoke Jeweler, Every Ring Tells Its Own Love Story.” Crain's New York Business, February

9, 2017. https://www.crainsnewyork.com/article/20170209/SMALLBIZ/ 170209884 / engagement-ring-designer-

zameer-kassam-just-wants-to-tell-love-stories, accessed September 2020.

NNN

18

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

621-043

Exhibit 9 Process Timeline for the Engagement of Louis Hunt and Kate Sundheim

February 6, 2019

February 8, 2019

February 11, 2019

February 15, 2019

February 19, 2019

February 21, 2019

February 22, 2019

March 19, 2019

April 9, 2019

April 29, 2019

Source: Company documents.

Louis Hunt has the Introductory Call with Aimée Cucciaro

over the phone. His timeline required having the ring in hand

by early March, before he and Kate Sundheim’s trip to

Japan, as he wished to propose there. He had a clear sense

of what he wanted.

Louis Hunt has the Discovery meeting with Aimée Cucciaro

at the Park Hyatt hotel.

Louis Hunt has the Diamond Tutorial with Zameer

Kassam over the phone.

Louis Hunt has the Storytelling meeting with Aimée Cucciaro

and Zameer Kassam at the company’s studio.

Louis Hunt and Aimée Cucciaro had a catch-up call to

discuss his diamond decision.

Louis Hunt has a second Storytelling meeting with Aimée

Cucciaro at the company’s studio to look at the diamond.

Louis Hunt confirms his diamond choice with the team.

Louis Hunt experiences the Unveiling with Aimée Cucciaro at

the company's studio.

Louis Hunt and Kate Sundheim get engaged in Kyoto,

Japan.

Louis Hunt, Kate Sundheim, Zameer Kassam and Aimée

Cucciaro have a Private Celebration at the company's

studio.

19

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

621-043 Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

Exhibit 10 Client Reflections on their Experiences with Various Parts of the Process

Marcia and David

“You're walking into an oasis of love and openness. They don’t seem rushed — they

have the time. There are loose diamonds, he has his sketchbook out, and he just

wants you to start talking. He had bourbon. He had jazz music or Motown that | really

dug playing. He gets to know you and he customizes the experience to make it

comfortable for you, because he realizes this is probably one of the biggest

commitments you've ever made in your life, and he takes it with that kind of care. It's

not like, ‘just hurry up and buy.’ It's not like that at all. It's like ‘we're going to go on

this mission together.”

“ felt like | was being heard. Part of the flawless nature of it is that it allows you to be

you, and express yourself. He'll ask an open-ended question like, ‘what do you love

about Marcia,’ and | responded — ‘the time we did this, and the time we did that.”

That's how he incorporated Hawaii, and that month of September as a stone, because

| said, ‘I really think | fell in love with her in Hawaii. That experience was a really

monumental point in our relationship for me.’ My saying that in a four hour-long

conversation was then put as a forever part of this ring. He let me go on all of the

tangents | needed to, but he was able to bring it back in and understand how it plays

in the arc of our love story.”

“When I learned what David had done, | was awestruck. [He'd tell you] he’s not that

romantic, and to say things that are warm and lovey-dovey — that’s not him. If | were

to say, ‘David why do you love me,’ he might skirt the issue, but he opened up to

Zameer, and when | finally met Zameer, and they were showing me the sketches, |

was overwhelmed with emotion. In an authentic way, David was sharing how he felt

with me to Zameer, and Zameer was able to bring it to life through the artwork of the

jewelry. It was so meaningful, because I've always wanted to know, ‘why do you love

me? You thought so much of that trip that, that's when you knew?’ If | were to ask

him, he’d never tell me, but Zameer was able to get him to open up and talk about

things that he would never share with me, and | say never, because most men don't

talk about that mushy stuff. For David to be able to share those moments with him

was really, really special. When they were telling me about the ring and what the

diamonds meant, | think what was most powerful was the stones that are on the

inside, because those truly come from David's heart.”

Jeff and Tony

“Our rings look like simple, Art Deco gold bands. , But the design means so

much more. They are actually two interlocking paper clips wrapped around the ring.

When Tony and | were dating, we would write cards and notes back and forth, Tony

would sign all of his cards to me with two paper clips stuck together because he