SOURCE: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021\Customer Academy_Len 2021\Part 1 Series_26 Jan 2021\Pre-reading
TOPIC: Custom Jewelry Design
SUMMARY: The text discusses Zameer Kassam's personalized approach to custom jewelry design, focusing on understanding the couple's story and creating a ring with deep meaning.
KEYWORDS: custom jewelry design, client engagement, personalized experience, customer story, proposal experience
---

[Document: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf]

They care about our relationship. They can tell our story in this ring. This is what

| want. After that, | felt very strongly about working with them.”

“It's their policy to not send a photo before we receive the ring, which was at the

time a little bit anxiety inducing. | trusted them, but at the same time, it arrived

Friday at 7:00 pm and | proposed Saturday at 10:00 am — not because of them,

but because | gave them two weeks — as small a timeframe as you can give. At

the end of the day, it showed up and it was beautiful. They believe that photos

don't do the ring justice — that it needs to be appreciated in person. | now agree.

When the ring arrived, | opened it and stared at it for twenty minutes.”

“For part of the proposal, he had a whole speech to say to me, and, after speaking

with Zameer, Aimée, and Kelsey, | think a lot of the speech was based in the love

story that he had so thoughtfully told and retold to them. At the end of his proposal,

before he gave me the ring, he said ‘there are a few things about the ring.’ It didn’t

have to have anything in it, but it has meaning and that's important to me.”

“We had just gotten engaged, and | was changing my outfit to take more pictures

with the photographer. We get upstairs, I’m changing, and he said ‘I need to tell

you about the ring guy.’ He, literally minutes after, wanted to talk about Zameer.

All day, he was like, ‘we need to send Zameer a picture.’ I'm like, ‘we just got

engaged — why are you so obsessed with sending Zameer a picture of the

proposal?’ Now that I've met Zameer and Aimée, | get why he was so excited to

share this next part of our love story with them.”

“That following week, we were on cloud nine. | thought | had no tears left in my

body, and [Zameer and Aiméee] had me tearing up from minute one, when they

were reading me actual quotes from Michael's session with them. They were

asking things like, ‘when did you stop thinking about Allie as just another girlfriend

and start thinking about her as the person you want to spend the rest of your life

with,’ and then they would say, ‘and now this is a quote from Michael.’ The clarity

that he had answering those really deep questions was so touching and special

to hear. He said it so beautifully. | couldn't have said it better myself.”

Source: Case author interviews.

24

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients 621-043

Exhibit11 Example Questions Asked During the Discovery

Warming questions, to initiate the conversation:

e Whenare each of your birthdays?

¢ Where did you and your fiancée-to-be meet?

e What were your first impressions when you first met? etc.

Deeper questions, to learn more intimate parts of the couple's story:

¢ Whatare some of the most meaningful and major milestones you and your fiancé-to-be have

experienced and shared together?

e What makes them the one for you?

Lighter questions, to learn about their fiancée to be:

e Whatis their favorite color?

¢ Do they have a lucky or unlucky number?

Probing questions, to better understand important parts of the story that could inform design:

e You mentioned that you dated long distance for a year during a hard time in

your relationship. How did you navigate and pull through from that?

e When they were there for you after your father passed, what were some of the conversations

or words which they gave to comfort you?

Source: Company documents.

25

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

LT

621-043 Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

Exhibit 12 Notes from the Discovery Process for Louis Hunt and Kate Sundheim

Source: Company documents.

26

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients 621-043

Exhibit 13 Excerpts from Sketching Brief for Louis Hunt and Kate Sundheim

Louis Hunt and Kate Sundheim

* Budget:

* Proposal Date: 3/30/19 in Tokyo

* Diamond Type: Round or Oval

* Halo: No

* Pavé: No

* Metal: Platinum:

* Ring Size: N/A

Louis Hunt and Kate Sundheim

Diamond Engagement Ring

Shoulders: 14 diamonds on each side

* Louis and Kate met at the Frost library in February 2014 at Amherst College. It was later

that evening they met again on the dance floor and danced the night away and had their

first kiss. The 24 diamonds will remind Kate of the early days of their relationship and

their first kiss,

+ After the final diamond, we will have the same brick found at the Frost Library, where

Louis and Kate met in winter of 201¢ at Amherst College.

Louis Design Requests / Summary:

* Proposal

+ Her radiant beauty and thoughtfulness

Prongs Option #1: Childhood Home Clarks Summit, PA Prongs Option #2: Church of St. Gregory’s

* Kate was born and raised Catholic and is very connected to her faith, The

Church of St. Gregory's is her family church.

Bridge Option #1: George Washington Bridge

+ A rsprasantation of New Yore Cey andthairhome, tis athe wact view from evtsiée alr aparem art.

Inside: Gemstones and Carvings

Order of Gemstones:

* Moment he fell in love with her and started to view her as future wife,

November 2014, yellow topaz

* White coat ceremony, TBD

Your hand in mine or Our world becomes a song Lyrics from “Walls” written

by Louis Hunt