SOURCE: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021\Customer Academy_Len 2021\Part 1 Series_26 Jan 2021\Pre-reading
TOPIC: Personalized Jewelry Design
SUMMARY: The text describes a custom engagement ring design process, including the couple's story, important life events, and symbolic elements incorporated into the ring.
KEYWORDS: custom jewelry, engagement ring design, personalized storytelling
---

[Document: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf]

* Kate was born and raised Catholic and is very connected to her faith, The

Church of St. Gregory's is her family church.

Bridge Option #1: George Washington Bridge

+ A rsprasantation of New Yore Cey andthairhome, tis athe wact view from evtsiée alr aparem art.

Inside: Gemstones and Carvings

Order of Gemstones:

* Moment he fell in love with her and started to view her as future wife,

November 2014, yellow topaz

* White coat ceremony, TBD

Your hand in mine or Our world becomes a song Lyrics from “Walls” written

by Louis Hunt

* Moved in together, August 2018, green peridot

* Proposal, March 2019, blue topaz

Source: Company documents.

27

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

621-043 Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

Exhibit14 Ring Design Sketches Shown During the Storytelling

B.uENSPIRATIONS

DuhidHoop Home

CLARK SOMMIT , PA

Ce INSIDE VI

Source: Company documents.

28

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients 621-043

Exhibit15 Excerpts from Design Brief Sent to Jeweler for Louis Hunt and Kate Sundheim

Louis Hunt and Kate Sundheim

* Proposal Date: leaving for Tokyo on 3/31...proposing in April

* Ring Size: 7

Louis Hunt and Kate Sundheim * Diamond: Round

Dumond Engagement Ring * GIA Certificate Number:

‘Artisan Due By: 3/17/19

Production Due By: 3/38/19

Storytelling Details

+ Name of Ring: The Frost Ring

+ Shoulders: Set on each shoulder of the ring willbe 14 diamonds to celebrate when Louis and Kate

frat a February of 2014 Handscarved ser the last lamond the enact bik founda the Frost

brary at Amherst College, where Louis fist approached and spoke to Kate.

+ sepdyremen Te procs are leo the Ch ofS reson Poranrta, Fae fair

church, highlighting her connection to her

. selberiaal petreernl a heweteid il epimeningn iaes

‘major milestone. The first is a yellow topaz for November 2014, where Louis made the realization

that he was in love with Kate, The second isa green peridot for August 2015, when Kate had her

White Coat Ceremony ~ a big leap into her career and a ceremony where Louis attended, The

thied gemstone is a second green peridot for August 2018, when Louis and Kate moved in

together. The final gemstone is a white diamond for April 2029, when Louis proposed to Kate in

Japan. The gemstones frame the inscription “When you place your hand in mine” from a song

‘that Louis wrote to Kate years ago. The Inscription is in Louis's handwriting.

+ Side profile: Carved on the side profile is the image of a lly, one of Kate's favorite flowers which

Louis has given to her throughout their relationship.

Ring Structure:

Front View:

+ Metal type: Platinum

+ Head Metal type: Platinum

+ Shoulder width: 1.7mm

* Shoulder height: 1.7mm

* Band shape: flat with rounded edges

* Diamond height:

Shoulders and Head/Prongs:

1 dvandash ki of ng nA be nied emsbane het as Ae

meet en Fedewary af DUA The pace gy BT OOHRS by He Car of K. Dhegery de

Peveptvcne Satr' fore cbarch Mpragetes her taarertios wher few

Inside: Gemstones

+ Gemuones: There ae fow germstones sel 90 the inside of Fate's engogerest fing each serving 9 mejor

senestane. The fest 0 yeiow tapas fur Movember 201%, where Louis move the reaizatie that he wat

{ov wth kee, The ecand i ee prt fo Auge 20S, hen Kat had hs We Coat every 0

(By lnup nts her carrer and e ceremony whee Louit attended Ths tra gemutane i 9 eecand green pence

for Augatt 2018, wheo lous and Kate moved in together The Aol pomstane ia winte domend for Apr

2018, whe Louis proposed te Kate in Jepen.

+ Order of gemstunes. one yellow tepet. one green perder, a second geen peridet. one white Gomend

+ Gomatones set at: 35 odor, 10 each, 2 etlack 25 otlock

. ie peratones fame the inscriaten “When you clo wou headin ane” Frm @ mir thot Lous

‘orove to Ker years epa. Toe mcrgtion at Coaa's hander =

> Reade: Hand carne ev aftr che Bat Scred thy wnat Mt Sow the Pose

Seeany a1 Askar Calan tery Lda Put aynmaitod a yale 0 ead

Engraving:

+ Shoulders: Hand-carved on ater the last diamond isthe exact brick found atthe Frost Library at Shoulders:

cane a asa lesa ct at a + Shoulders: Hand-carved on alter the fast diamond is the exact brick found atthe Frost Urary at

* Prongs: N/A Amherst College, where Louis first approached and spoke to Kate.

+ Inside: The gemstones frame the inscription “When you place your hand in mine” from a song.

that Louis wrote to Kate years ago. The inscription isin Louis's handwriting.

* Side profile #1: Carved on the side profile is the image of a lily, one of Kate's favorite flowers

which Louis has given to her throughout their relationship,

* Side Profile #2: N/A.

Source: Company documents.

29

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

621-043 Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

Exhibit 16 Photos Posted on Social Media

zameerkassam + Following

Che New ork Gimes — ~~

zameerkassam As featured in the

@nytimes article, a closer look at

Louis's engagement ring for Kate: Louis

Met Kate In 2014, which is celebrated

through the numbers of diamonds set

into platinum shoulders, which lead

towards the perfectly cut round

diamond in the center. It was at the

Frost Library at @amherstcollege

where Louis gathered the courage to

‘speak to her, which we symbolized by

hand-carving the exact brickwork of

the library into the platinum after the

final diamand an the hattom af the

9aVv A