SOURCE: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021\Customer Academy_Len 2021\Part 1 Series_26 Jan 2021\Pre-reading
TOPIC: Business Strategy, Entrepreneurship
SUMMARY: Zameer Kassam's journey from the jewelry industry to working at MTV and then returning to the jewelry business, culminating in his Harvard Business School experience.
KEYWORDS: Jewelry industry, Career transition, Entrepreneurship, Harvard Business School, Business strategy
---

[Document: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf]

1997 and 2012.

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

———————————————————————

621-043 Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

completely different from consulting.” _Kassam moved to Mumbai, India to work for MTV Networks

International. “That was a very unexpected turn, because I didn’t speak the language and had never

been there.” In his new role, Kassam travelled around Asia and the Middle East, launching MTV,

Nickelodeon, and VH-1 properties. “I saw first-hand how much energy went into every 60-second

clip,” he explained. “That so many people and such passion went into telling a story. But at the same

time, it felt very transient — after all this effort, the clip airs, and then it’s gone. As someone who came

from the jewelry industry, where our work inherently lasts forever, I didn’t feel like media was the

right fit for me. But I never forgot the excitement of telling a story.”

Kassam enrolled at Harvard Business School in the Fall of 2005. “My greatest dream in life was

always to someday call my father and say, ‘Dad, I got into Harvard’ because, as a refugee family, that’s

not something I ever thought was possible. We weren't wealthy; we were middle class, and I worked

very hard to get in. For me, it was the biggest deal ever. After I got in, I planned to follow a traditional

career path - probably back to McKinsey, and then on a track to become CEO of some corporation

someday, because that seemed like the logical progression.”

During his first semester, in a lunchtime session led by his Leadership and Organizational Behavior

professor, Robert Kaplan, Kassam was asked, “If you had all the money in the world, what would you

do?” Kassam reflexively responded that he would probably remain a consultant, or perhaps lead a

fashion or luxury goods firm someday. Kassam’s seatmate, Timothy Heis (MBA 2007) interrupted,

brandishing the case from Kassam’s desk. “Zameer would be a jewelry designer. He sketches jewelry

on the periphery of every single case, every class, all day.” Kaplan, whose father had been a door-to-

door jewelry salesman in Kansas City, followed up with Kassam, noting his passion, and encouraging

him to explore it for the summer. Kassam spent his summer working as a retail consultant for a joint

venture between DeBeers Group and Louis Vuitton. “It was an incredible experience,” noted Kassam.

During his second year of business school, the movie Blood Diamond was released, which led Kassam

to have concerns about the diamond industry. He collaborated with HBS Professor Debora Spar to

engage in a three-week social enterprise initiative, to understand how the industry could create more

value for the people of Botswana through diamond-based revenue. “This was the very beginning of

transparency and traceability in the diamond industry. I left [that experience] feeling very positive

about the impact that jewelry could have on the people of that country,” explained Kassam, “which is

one of the most productive countries for diamond mining in the world.”

Upon graduation, Kassam was hired as the Head of Bridal and Classics for DeBeers Louis Vuitton

in London. “I learned all about diamonds from DeBeers. | learned all about design, brand building,

and retail environments from LVMH. It was the quintessential luxury industry experience, and I

thought it was my dream job.” Soon after arriving, however, Kassam began to question whether the

evolving luxury industry was a good fit. Because of the changing dynamics in those industries, there

had been a considerable push over the prior decade toward lower-cost, mass-produced products.

Kassam explained:

“Aside from the few unique pieces of jewelry crafted for press, the vast majority of sales came

from a small number of generic SKUs. Every morning I would view the sales spreadsheet and see

that hundreds of people proposed the day before, and while that idea would make me happy, I

would always feel a bit sad, knowing that all of these women had the exact same generic ring. There

was nothing special about it, and by a year in, there was literally one SKU that made up 80 to 90

percent of engagement ring sales. I tried to launch something more unique, but given the economics

and structure of the luxury industry, it was impossible to offer a bespoke product without it taking

many months and costing at least $50,000.”

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients 621-043

Kassam was despondent. On a visit to New York City, he had dinner with his closest friend, and

Chief Board Advisor, Noopur Agarwal (MBA 2007). Agarwal was worried about her friend.

“Thad to ask him, ‘Zameer, what's going on with you? You're not yourself.’ We had this moment

where both of us were in tears, because he had hit a point in his job, where he realized it wasn’t his

dream. It wasn’t an expression of his passion. It wasn’t authentic to who he was. You can work in

an industry you're passionate about, but in a capacity where your passions aren’t realized, and I

think that’s what had happened to him. He was in the dream job, but it wasn’t allowing him to do

the things that made jewelry such a dream to him, which was the storytelling, the love, and the

connections. He was dealing with all of the bureaucracy of being in a big company, rather than

being on the front lines, talking to customers, and learning their stories.”

“I realized it wasn’t what I wanted to do, and I left,’ Kassam explained. He moved to New York

City, where he lived for seven months on Agarwal’s couch as he scouted a new direction. Over the next

two years, Kassam took on a handful of consulting projects for companies in different parts of the