SOURCE: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021\Customer Academy_Len 2021\Part 1 Series_26 Jan 2021\Pre-reading
TOPIC: Personalized Jewelry Design
SUMMARY: This text discusses the personalized and thoughtful process of designing a custom engagement ring that reflects the couple's unique story.
KEYWORDS: custom jewelry, personalized design, customer experience, engagement ring, client relationship
---

[Document: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf]

from how we met, to the first date, to the first trip out of town, to meeting the parents.

That was a 2-3 hour meeting | had with her, in a nice hotel on Park Avenue. It was a top

notch experience. After that, she said, | have homework for you. She sent me home with

a list of items to send her. Some of those were pictures of our courtship. That's where

she got the leaf from Jamaica, from Marsha’s hometown. She also asked me to send

her any special poems that | had written for her. That's where the spice bun inscription

came from on the inside of the ring.”

21

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

621-043 Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

“The third phase might have been tied as my favorite portion, because | saw creatively

what she and Zameer were thinking about. She was so particular about making this a

very special ring. Seeing the first drafts, and seeing what the ring could be, it was beyond

my comprehension, to be honest.”

“| had gone to another very high-end jeweler multiple times to see different rings and

styles. Initially Marsha wanted an emerald cut, and | told Aimée that. Later Marsha came

back and said she wanted an oval cut. | told Aimée, ‘she has blown my mind. | don’t

know what | need to get. I've looked at the other jewelers out there, and I've seen the

different styles. I'm not particularly liking one over the other, but I'll get what she wants.’

Aimée told me there's a cut that has the shape of the emerald and the sparkle and flash

of the oval. | wasn't getting that from the other jewelers. When | told them, now she's

changed her mind to an oval, they would just show me the ovals. They wouldn'ttellme =<

there’s another cut that will give her everything she wants. | really valued that in Aimée a a

and Zameer.”

“The morning after the proposal, he said, ‘let's go through this.’ He showed me each

detail of the ring, and | was amazed. | saw that he put a lot of thought into it, and that it

really is unique. That's the main thing about this ring that's so special to me is that it

truly is us. There's no other ring like this out there, because it truly tells our story.”

“They set a date for us to come in afterwards, and we had Champagne, and | told them

the whole engagement story from my side. They were in tears. They are so wrapped up

in the work and the people that they work with, that they care so much not only about

the ring, but the people themselves. Everyone was crying when | was telling the story.”

Monika and Jeff

“| didn't often tell those kinds of stories beyond just thinking them in my own head, so

it was nice to have a voice to tell those stories to. You end up leaving that session feeling

very proud of the relationship that you're in, and the person that you're choosing to take

this step with. In a lot of ways, | think you end up even feeling closer to them, because

you're articulating these stories and memories that you may not confront on a regular

basis. You're reminded of the reasons why you fell in love in the first place, and why

you value certain aspects of the person you love. It was a very impactful meeting.”

“It was fun to do the follow up where you go deep and search for photos that represent

certain things. For me, it was a combination of Google searches to represent our street,

Poland, Coachella, and other important moments of our relationship, and going back

into our Google Photos archives and looking at early photos of our relationship journey.

| think going through that process makes you feel very connected to your partner.”

“I may have told [our story] as if everything was equal but [Zameer] has a special skill

in that he can latch onto those things that are elevated above the rest. What you get

back in the synthesis is a third party's perspective on what those elevated moments are,

which | think can reinforce your own vision of them. It makes you realize that they're

really unique, and it makes you feel even more emboldened in the relationship.”

“I don't like clothes, bags, shoes, whatever, but | do attach a lot of value to very few

specific pieces, and this ring is the top of it all, for sure. It would be the thing that | would

grab out of a house that is on fire. After three years of having it, | still glance at it every

now and again and say, ‘oh my God, this is the most beautiful thing I've ever seen.’ It

means so much on a sentimental level. It's just a beautiful piece of art, and it represents

so many amazing things about our lives together. [Zameer’s] not in the jewelry business.

He’s in the business of making men look like heroes.”

NN

22

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

LY

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients 621-043

Jens and Amol

“It isn't an in-store experience. We had drinks at a hotel to get sized-up. We met at

the Harvard Club to have our intake conversations with him. It was a joint creation

process, and it was a journey, but it didn't feel commercial at all. It's not like you're

going into a store and talking to a stranger.”

“He was so thoughtful in terms of asking us the details around our story: how we