SOURCE: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021\Customer Academy_Len 2021\Part 1 Series_26 Jan 2021\Pre-reading
TOPIC: Pricing Strategy for Luxury Jewelry
SUMMARY: The company follows an established set of pricing rules, offering 30-80% lower prices than luxury jewelry brands by considering factors like diamond quality, craftsmanship, and customized design.
KEYWORDS: pricing strategy, luxury jewelry, diamond quality, craftsmanship, customized design
---

[Document: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf]

established set of pricing rules,” explained Roberto.

“First, we look for benchmarks within the industry that are comparable to us in terms of both

the diamond quality and craftsmanship - that’s usually at a luxury brand like Harry Winston or

Tiffany. As a business without stores, inventory and other overhead, we can offer a far more

competitive price, and we know to our clients, value is of the utmost importance. We end up

anywhere from 30 to 80% below a luxury jewelry brand. We keep ourselves to a minimum of 30%

lower, because we always want people to feel like they’re getting value along with the beauty of the

process. We don’t want anyone to feel like they are paying a premium to be going through this

process with us. Where we fall in the 30-80% range could depend on a number of things, like the

time of the process, the category of the piece, and the materials used. The materials list for each

project is the wildcard that has to be assessed on a client by client basis. For example, we might

roughly know what a two carat round solitaire engagement ring is going to cost our client from the

get-go, but if there are design nuances that could affect our cost, we consider those as we set the

final price.”

The Storytelling

With all the pieces in place - the couple's story captured and translated into a design sketched on

paper, and the diamonds in hand that were chosen to bring it to life - the client would be invited to the

storytelling. This meeting was highly structured, and conducted with considerable fanfare. “Right from

the beginning, it’s a performance,” Cucchiaro explained. “They’re getting to see the show of their life.”

Kassam, or the storyteller who had been leading the project, would begin by sharing the paper and

pencil sketches of each individual part of the ring, with everything else covered, revealing each element

in turn while highlighting how it evoked different parts of the couple’s love story. For some clients, the

experience of having one’s story recounted in the design of a bespoke ring could be overwhelming

(Exhibit 14).

Kassam or the storyteller would typically conclude the presentation of the design by asking the

client a very specific question. “Do you feel that this is the kind of ring that you would both feel really

proud to present to your partner, and something you think your partner would cherish?” Kassam

explained, “It doesn’t come down to how beautiful the sketches are. It comes down to how well we

listen to the story, and how authentically we tell the story in the design.”

Next, the conversation would turn to the diamonds. The client would be shown three options, from

the largest to the smallest, and with prices corresponding to each. “We only share three numbers: the

fully-loaded top option, middle option, and most affordable option. And at that point, we also offer a

sense of what that same size and quality of diamond might cost in a Tiffany, Cartier, or Harry Winston

store, if it was in a generic setting.”

More than 90% of clients who experienced the storytelling chose to have their ring produced.

“Typically, the only people who don’t work with us at that moment intime don’t work with us because

of an externality, explained Kassam. “They might tell us, ‘I was speaking with her mother and there’s

a family diamond.’ Or, sometimes people change their timeline for the proposal.” To begin production,

clients would pay a deposit of two-thirds of the total price. Although the client would be shielded from

the minutia of the production process, they were always left with a question to ponder. “Do you want

to have the surfboard or cresting waves on the inside? Think about what will mean the most to you

when you're down on one knee proposing.”

9

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

621-043 Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

Upon receiving the deposit, the company would immediately pay for the diamond and provide a

brief to the jeweler (Exhibit 15). The brief provided the design, as well as structural details, including

the ring size, its exact proportions, the required materials, and the number and types of stones in the

band. The brief would also detail non-structural process steps, such as engraving, which would be

initiated when the jeweler’s structural work was complete. Management of the production process

required a lot of communication, and careful attention to deadlines to ensure on-time completion.

Roberto preferred to deliver new briefs face-to-face, in order to provide clarifications, and throughout

the production process, she remained in perpetual contact with the jeweler. “I’ve learned the benefit of

being able to catch things early,” Roberto explained. We're on the phone, and we're texting and

Facetiming all day long. Many details are being relayed, and there’s room for error.” Production could

take anywhere froma week to several months, depending on the complexity of the project, and Roberto

would inspect each finished piece as a final quality check.

The Unveiling

When the ring was complete, clients were invited to come to the studio. Kassam explained:

“With a little bit of bravado, we'll share the sketches again. We'll have a glass of champagne,

and then we'll open the box. Most people who are about to propose never get to experience this, but

for us, we're not just trying to give the client a beautiful moment; we are training the client on how

to propose. We want you to realize that you won't just pull the ring out and feel nothing. You will

present a ring that you built with us, that tells the story of your love and your life, and that this ring

will literally last longer than we will be alive. And for your family, it's an heirloom. We want to fill