SOURCE: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021\Customer Academy_Len 2021\Part 1 Series_26 Jan 2021\Pre-reading
TOPIC: Client Engagement Process
SUMMARY: The text describes the multi-step process Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry uses to engage and understand client needs for a custom jewelry order, including an initial call, storytelling, and production planning.
KEYWORDS: client engagement, custom jewelry, needs assessment, production planning, introductory call
---

[Document: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf]

nor encouraged. It gives us a sense of the milestones and the moments that make up your unique

love story. The third step is what we call the storytelling. And that’s where we share three options

of diamonds that are extraordinary, from the top to the bottom of your budget, as well as the

sketches that bring your story to life through design. This is when you decide to move forward on

the ring, and we kick off production.”

After describing the process, the storyteller would check-in with the client to ask if they were

prepared to move forward. “I ask, do you think you can commit around two to three hours to this

process over the next two to three weeks?” explained Kassam. As of 2020, no one had ever said no.

The introductory call was also pivotal in understanding the client’s needs, in order to ensure that

the company was in a position to deliver for them. Director of Operations, Kealan Bakke Roberto,

explained, “When we get an initial inquiry, we usually know very little about the client. We know their

name, their contact information, and presumably that they want a ring. So, there is a set of questions

we ask to obtain some key data points, primarily about their budget, a rough idea of their design

preferences, and their timeline.”

Kassam expanded, “Nine out of 10 consultants will say, don’t ask for the budget on the first call. I

have always found that everyone has a range that they want to stay within. Because we can work with

any budget from $5,000 and up, we want to be respectful of that range. If the client wants to change

their range over time, we can always accommodate.” With respect to the general design, some clients

had a very well-developed idea of what their partner wanted, some had an inkling, and others were

unsure. For clients who were unsure, the storyteller would provide materials that would illustrate the

general options, or coach them on how to obtain more information on their partner's ideal ring without

spoiling the surprise. Finally, it was crucial to learn about the client's desired timeline. The team would

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients 621-043

work backwards from the desired proposal date to put together an operational plan that would

maximize the client’s experience, but also ensure that the ring would be finished on time.

When the introductory call concluded, the storyteller would prepare a brief that would introduce

the client to the team, and communicate the details of the client's needs and expectations. Roberto

explained, “If a client needs a ring really quickly, like in one or two weeks, my first call to action is to

alert the production team that we have somebody coming down the pike.” On very rare occasions, the

team would have to reject projects after the introductory call, if upon review, there was insufficient

time, or an insufficient budget relative to the complexity of the project. In such cases, a team member

would follow-up quickly to communicate the news, offering to revisit the project if the client could

relax the relevant constraint. In most cases however, the end of the introductory call marked the

beginning of a diamond search on behalf of the client. While Cucchiaro worked with the client to

schedule a tutorial, Roberto worked with the company’s suppliers to source diamond options that fit

with the client’s stated budget and design preferences, evaluating each gemstone against the

company’s stringent quality standards.

The Tutorial

During the tutorial, the client would have a 30-minute call with a storyteller to learn about

diamonds. “The diamond industry is filled with overly complicated terms that I sometimes feel are

meant to confuse people. Our goal is to provide the basic terminology to help clients feel comfortable

with diamonds, and to share our methodology to select a diamond.” Kassam elaborated, “We want

them to be empowered with knowledge, even if they choose to not work with us. The worst thing

someone can do is leave us and buy a terrible ring somewhere else. If they decide to buy something

generic, I’m ok with that. But they should do so in a thoughtful way with the right objective

knowledge.”

The storyteller would often begin the tutorial by reviewing the “four C’s” with the client (cut, color,

clarity, and carat weight). “95% of our clients are familiar with the four C’s, but we have

recommendations for how we prioritize them,” explained Cucchiaro. For example, the storyteller

would explain how the cut of the diamond influences its visual appearance in terms of fire, life, and

brilliance. Fire was used to describe the kaleidoscope of colors emanating from the facets of a diamond

- the flat surfaces that reflect light. Life was used to explain the scintillation or sparkle of a diamond.

Brilliance described how well the diamond captured and reflected light. “The language that we use is

tangible. We use a lot of metaphors to help them visualize what we mean... When you think of fire,

you think of a flickering of color. The fire in diamonds is the kaleidoscope or rainbow of colors the

diamond will give you,” explained Cucchiaro.

The storyteller would also share the company’s perspective on what they believed was most

beautiful in terms of color and clarity, as well as their philosophy on carat weight. “We have a totally

different view on carat weight,” noted Cucchiaro. “We think it’s important to know the carat weight of

the diamond, but we know that some diamonds can look larger than their carat weight implies.” In

addition to the educational component, the tutorial was also designed to give the client a better

understanding of who would be creating this very special piece alongside them. “My personal objective