SOURCE: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Additional\HFT\2021\Customer Academy_Len 2021\Part 1 Series_26 Jan 2021\Pre-reading
TOPIC: Luxury Retail Engagement
SUMMARY: This case examines how Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry adapted its high-touch, in-person jewelry design and sales process to a virtual model during the COVID-19 pandemic.
KEYWORDS: luxury retail, customer engagement, virtual sales, jewelry design, COVID-19 adaptation
---

[Document: Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry.pdf]

HARVARD|] BUSINESS |]SCHOOL

9-621-043

REV: OCTOBER 16, 2020

RYAN W. BUELL

AMY KLOPFENSTEIN

Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

Introduction

Zameer Kassam (MBA 2007), Founder and CEO of Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry, sat in the living

room of his Manhattan apartment, pouring over one of the earliest sketchbooks from his business. On

the pages, penciled in slanting cursive, were his handwritten notes of love stories gathered from clients,

alongside sketches of some of the one-of-a-kind engagement rings he and his team had designed to

commemorate their relationships. Although Kassam and his colleagues designed a wide-variety of

custom jewelry pieces, two-thirds of their projects were engagement rings.

Kassam’s eyes fell upon a framed portrait from his 40th birthday (Exhibit 1). The image captured

hundreds of friends and former clients from all around the world, who had travelled to Dubrovnik,

Croatia to celebrate with him. But this year, no such gathering could occur. It was August 2020, and

the world was ensnared by the COVID-19 pandemic. Just a few days after his 41st birthday, and eight

years since the founding of his company, Kassam found himself at a crossroads.

Obliged by social-distancing guidelines, Kassam and his team had been forced to take many facets

of his high-touch, historically face-to-face business online. Interviews to discover the details of a

couple's love story, which were typically conducted in person, perhaps over a glass of scotch at the

Park Hyatt, were now being done by phone or on Zoom. Storytelling sessions, during which Kassam

and his team would reveal their sketches of ring designs that were inspired by the couple’s relationship,

and present carefully-selected diamond options, were now being completed over e-mail. Elaborately

choreographed in-person unveilings of finished rings had given way to FedEx deliveries. Private

celebrations with the newly-engaged couple and the entire client-facing team in Kassam’s Manhattan

studio had been moved online, if they occurred at all.

Since the majority of his clients lived outside New York City, Kassam and his team were accustomed

to engaging customers from afar, but until now, it had been atypical for the entire process to be

conducted virtually. Clients were often eager to travel to Manhattan at least once to meet him and his

team, or they were delighted by his, and his storytellers’, willingness to travel to meet them. Face-to-

face service was impossible under the current restrictions, and yet, clients were still overjoyed by their

rings and business remained strong. “Perhaps,” he reflected, “our process has been too rigid in the

past?” Relaxing some parts of the process could drive efficiencies that could help further scale the

Professor Ryan W. Buell and Case Researcher Amy Klopfenstein (Case Research & Writing Group) prepared this case. It was reviewed and

approved before publication by a company designate. Funding for the development of this case was provided by Harvard Business School and

not by the company. HBS cases are developed solely as the basis for class discussion. Cases are not intended to serve as endorsements, sources of

primary data, or illustrations of effective or ineffective management.

Copyright © 2020 President and Fellows of Harvard College. To order copies or request permission to reproduce materials, call 1-800-545-7685,

write Harvard Business School Publishing, Boston, MA 02163, or go to www. hbsp.harvard.edu. This publication may not be digitized, photocopied,

or otherwise reproduced, posted, or transmitted, without the permission of Harvard Business School.

This document is authorized for use only in Professor Buell's the Managing Service Operations, Fall 2020 at Harvard Business School from Sep 2020 to Nov 2021.

621-043 Zameer Kassam Fine Jewelry: Engaging Clients

business, and embracing more technology might help him and his team reach more clients and engage

them in new, and potentially better, ways. Kassam mulled the possibilities as he turned the page.

The Fine Jewelry Industry

In 2019, roughly 20,000 retail jewelers operated in the United States.1 However, the market was

fragmented, with the top 50 businesses contributing 40% of industry-wide sales.? The largest U.S. retail

jewelry merchant was Signet Jewelers, which operated outlets such as Kay, Zales, and Jared and owned

roughly 7% of the U.S. market share. Other major players included Helzberg Diamonds, which

operate a chain of more than 200 mall-based shops, and luxury retailer Tiffany & Co (Tiffany’s).4

Additional vendors included department stores such as Macy’s and Nordstrom, warehouse stores such

as Walmart and Costco, e-commerce platforms, and television shopping networks.5

The global diamond jewelry market was valued at $76 billion in 2018 (Exhibit 3), with roughly half

of the global demand for polished diamonds residing in the United States (Exhibit 4). A substantial

portion of diamond sales stemmed from bridal jewelry, such as engagement rings, which comprised

30% to 50% of revenue for some jewelry stores.6 Diamond engagement ring prices ranged from less

than $500 at mass market retailers such as Zales, to more than $100,000 at high-end jewelers such as

Tiffany's. (See Exhibit 5 for a list of prices at high-end jewelers.)” Research suggested that engagement

ring prices had almost tripled since the 1930s, with the average American paying between $5,000 and

$7,500 for an engagement ring in 2019.8 However, these prices may have been inflated by a small group

of high spenders, as a 2019 survey suggested that the majority of shoppers paid less than $3,000 for an

engagement ring (Exhibit 6).?

Although most stores had an online presence, a 2018 survey revealed that 70% of consumers bought

engagement rings in brick-and-mortar stores.'? The appeal of in-store jewelry purchases included

access to services such as ring cleanings, guidance from store employees, and concerns that online

jewelry would look different in person."' High end jewelers offered additional services such as

beverages, private showrooms, and a personal consultation from a member of the sales staff.!2 Further,

approximately 33% of couples shopped for an engagement ring together; therefore, shopping in-store

gave brides and grooms-to-be the opportunity to try on rings prior to purchase.!3 Personalization was

also common among U.S. shoppers; in 2019, almost 50% of surveyed consumers reported purchasing