SOURCE: Zappos Meetings_Spendless Shoes.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Employee Recruitment and Retention
SUMMARY: The text discusses Zappos' approach to employee recruitment, including their focus on psychometrics over demographics, and their emphasis on customer experience and continuous website updates.
KEYWORDS: employee recruitment, customer experience, website optimization, psychometrics, Amazon acquisition
---

fit road, it’s less onerous on the employer to provide documentation apparently.

They do not run anything like Expr3ss, they have their HR guys phone screen a person 2 or 3 times before

they come in for an interview. There is not much collaboration between HR and the department head that

needs staff.

The user experience guys said that tha URW OF USEF Experience is psychometrics Not demographics. And

|. It doesn’t matter how old someone is, or their bank balance or where they live

anymore, these give off extremely skewed results, and that results in customers not being shown what they

are actually interested in and you lose the engagement of them.

One of their biggest issues is that they don’t change up their website often enough because they have such

a huge platform and so many people and opinions it takes such a long time to change something, that when

they do it’s “a big deal” to their customers. Their aim is to change up some of the front end every 6 months

so their customers get used to it continually changing.

They make their user decisions from “personas” rather than demographics (this is the exercise we’re doing

with the Kingdom at the moment on our brands)

they walk a fine line between efficiencies and customer satisfaction. Eg they recently just made the US

postal service unavailable as a postal option because it was unreliable and the times were terrible. However

it caused a stir with some customers, even though it was a poor option that was sabotaging their customer

service with their unreliable service.

. they spent so much time listening to their customers, and in user experience they now focus on

development and what’s new to impress customers instead of just giving them what they expect. Part of

their “wow” customer experience.

lasked the user experience guys was there ever an expensive technology advancement that they didn’t

make their money on, and they very quickly said no. They track their return on absolutely everything, and

every time they implement something into the user experience, it pays for itself and more. The best thing

they did was invest in tracking it to give them to confidence to continue, and shows them the types of

developments that customers respond to more in sales to give them focuses.

User experience used to focus on what was similar in their customers. They now have found that there is

more information in what is different about them. This goes back to the individuals and the psychometrics

instead of the demographics that they use.

The user experience team do not integrate or work with the phones, they only do online only.

| asked both managers what changed for them when Amazon bought them out. The culture guy said that

nothing changed, they bought Zappos to learn about the culture, so they taught Amazon a lot. The user guys

2

said everything changed for them when Amazon bought them. They stopped talking top line and started

discussing bottom line. Their KPI’s

’m sure there’s more that I’ll remember over time, that’s it for my notes,

Jaimee Charlton

National Store Development and Marketing Manager

P.O. Box 554 Port Adelaide Business Centre SA 5015

T: +618 8440 4048

F: +618 8440 4020

E: jaimee.c@spendless.com.au

W: www.spendless.com.au

Spend-less Shoes

THE LOOK FOR LESS

This e-mail is intended only for the use of the individual or entity named above and may contain information that is confidential and privileged. If you are not the intended

recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution, or copying of this e-mail is prohibited. You should scan this e-mail and any file attachments for

viruses. Spend-less Shoes does not accept liability for any loss or damage, whether caused by our own negligence or not, that results from a computer virus or a defect in

the transmission of this e-mail or any attached file.

If you have received this e-mail in error, please notify Spend-less Shoes immediately by return e-mail, phone or fax and destroy the original message.

& Please consider the environment before printing this email.

Message protected by MailGuard: e-mail anti-virus, anti-spam and content filtering.

http://www.mailguard.com.au

Report this message as spam