SOURCE: Zappos Meetings_Spendless Shoes.pdf
SUBFOLDER: Brenton - NCS\0126 - Leadership & Management Best Practices
TOPIC: Workplace Culture and Employee Engagement
SUMMARY: The text describes the unique workplace culture and employee engagement strategies at Zappos, including flexible job roles, themed office spaces, and a focus on recognition and community events.
KEYWORDS: workplace culture, employee engagement, Zappos, office design, employee recognition
---

Brett Blundy

Subject: FW: Zappos meetings

Attachments: IMG_5600,jpg ~ g o

ee - o\ Saha Oe abc jo

gk ’

| met with the employee engagement manager and th

exiser experience manager

my notes from the day

e it’s easy for people to transfeyhetween departments, if someone has the right attitude they make a space

for them, or move them argund until they find a job they love and are good at

e Their office in Las Vegas/S the old city hall. So it’s 4 levels in a circle with a huge open common area in the

to chat, haves together, have their meetings in a relaxed environment etc. they are all themed, eg

level 2 is 80’s themed, another floor is animal themed. The departments on each level are encouraged to

work with the employee engagement team on changing them up whenever they feel like it.

e They have only one in and out of the building to increase that collision idea

e the customer service team are not monitored by call times, they can spend as long on the phone as they

need to with each customer. If the staff member feels they've made a connection with a person, they can

send that customer a range of gifts/cards — eg if they were helping out with someone and find out it’s their

birthday next week, they can send them a card and a gift, Zappos merchandise that might be a

cap/tshirt/cookies/etc.

e They have “Recognition alley’ Every time they hit a milestore — first time they did over $1 mil in sales in one

day etc. they get a certificate framed, everyone gets a tshirt. Recognition Alley has all the meeting rooms off

from it, so people visit it often. Creates that culture of staff being proud of where they work

when any new person starts, they are extremely strict about every person spending 4 weeks on the phones

before they start in their role.

Gilevery employee must complete 10 hours of phone time during the holiday period (Thanksgiving through to

Xmas) all execs do it too.

The employee engagement manager has a team of 8 that are just organising “culture” events for the office.

eg they had a big free dinner at Thankgiving for the homeless at their office. While | was there, the local zoo

brought in a petting zoo with little animals that the staff were responsible for feeding at the right times etc.

e There's’ “curator” that is responsible for the blank walls in the office, and getting people excited about

creating “art” for the blank walls. These change a few times a year or as people request a wall for some art.

e they no longer give cash away to charities, they want their people to have experiences and they volunteer

instead of just writing cheques.

e The perpetuate the culture by “showing it off” making people proud to be a part of it. They encourage any

and all ideas, and have a team of dedicated people making them happen

© less than 1% of employees take the cash to leave during their probation period

e there are suggestion boxes at every coffee station on every floor. Feedback and the sharing of ideas,

whether it’s anonymous or not is constantly encouraged. they don’t get much anonymous feedback

anymore, people are never criticised for constructive feedback, people like to own their feedback

they include absolutely everyone, and give constant communication back to the whole office about what

they’re working on, and always asking for volunteers. They are able to participate in anything that is going

on in work hours. (the only place where strict time structures are in place is with the call centre staff where

they need to make sure they have a tight roster — their version of our store staff)

only the culture team is allowed to email the whole office. they have different email addresses depending

on what the all office email is about. But it is about making sure the email is clear, easy to read, straight to

the point and is in the correct tone. Not even Tony is allowed to email the whole office without it being

edited and cleared by the culture team, something he instigated. He wants consistent and approachable

communication, and doesn’t want that ruined by someone having an off day sending an angry email around

to all staff.

they have a monthly co-worker bonus, where anyone in the business at the end of every month can

volunteer someone to receive a $50 bonus in their next pay. They fill out a form raving about why, and that

person receives the credit and the $50 bonus. With staff of 1300, they said they only get approx. 20 a month

They are very proud to support their teams while they are working for them, and support their dreams and

aspirations. Their goal with retention is keeping people that want to be there. When they are ready to move

on, Zappos supports them in their goals. They don’t keep people forever and they don’t want to if they’re

ready to move on. They don’t keep stats on staff retention, it’s not important to them, they are more

interested in making sure everyone that is working with them is engaged.

They do not measure who is “engaged” but they are confident that due to their perpetuating culture, it is

obvious at manager level when someone is not happy or not fitting in. They believe in US law, it is easier to

get rid of someone for culture fit issues than it is performance based. If they go down the performance

based road they have to then start to seriously document, same as us, however if they go down the culture

fit road, it’s less onerous on the employer to provide documentation apparently.

They do not run anything like Expr3ss, they have their HR guys phone screen a person 2 or 3 times before